World Safety Organization, Nigeria Chapter has urged organisations to ensure adequate safety systems are in place to prevent occupational hazards. The Director, World Safety Organization, Nigeria Chapter, Soji Olalokun, in an interview with our correspondent, said, “The bane of the society is having management caught in between cost of installing the safety system and profits. But if we think it through, we would realise it is worth investing to protect the organisation. Nothing can be compared to lives and no amount of compensation can bring back lives. “Usually, the cost of putting systems in place often impedes safety actions in organisations. The consequences of not having an adequate system to manage occurrence of accidents when they occur are large and can be avoided.” While speaking on the recent fire incident at OPIC plaza, he said he was grateful for the timely recovery measures by the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency and other safety agencies. “As a first respondent, being there to see a loved one with more than third degree burns, dying of pains, or having complications of internal organs, is indescribable.” Olalokun, however, said that there were lessons to be learnt for every organisation. He said, “No matter how good the facilities are, accidents happen and when accidents happen, it is as a result of unsafe acts – one procedure not being followed or things unplanned going wrong. “Recovery measures are where you have your extinguishers, fire hydrants, depending on what you do there. That is what informs what you install and having experts to come on time. Not thinking the unthinkable leads to this; if you thought the unthinkable, you would put systems in place. It is a lesson to be learnt.” According to him, his organisations carry out competency training for safety officers who get certified to carry out safety management within their organisations. “Organisations are tasked with managing occupational safety; that is why they employ safety managers. We are interested in the competency of the people they employ to manage their safety.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com