The Federal Government on Thursday said it had commenced the process of linking the bio-data of 10 million farmers to their various farmlands across the country. Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Sabo Nanono, said his ministry had established an online portal to capture the bio-data of farmers and link them with geographical information of their farm plots, crops and the volumes of production in Nigeria. Nanono, who spoke in Abuja, said the initiative would ensure efficient and effective monitoring of Federal Government interventions in the agricultural sector. He said, “Although we initially set out to capture the data of 2.4 million farmers across the country, the results from the exercise have encouraged the Economic Sustainability Plan Team to expand the data capture to 10 million farmers. “The database will be a platform for the Federal Government interventions going forward, putting an end to ghost schemes and other unscrupulous practices in the agricultural industry.” The minister noted that the challenges brought by the COVID-19 pandemic, floods and insecurity had made the government to set up structures to address infrastructural deficiency, technology gaps, security challenges and extension inadequacy. Nanono stated that agricultural productivity could only improve through mechanisation of production activities. He said, “In our effort to improve agricultural production profile of the country, we have entered into a partnership with the government of Brazil through one of their foremost technology transfer, the Fundacao Getulio Vargas. “This partnership has yielded an agricultural mechanisation loan to the tune of €995m. This shall be granted to Nigerian entrepreneurs to establish service centres across all the 774 Local Government of the country, selling services to all categories of farmers and thereby helping to improve their productivity. “The service centres shall be either a Type 1 – supporting production activities, or Type 2 – supporting processing and packaging activities.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com