THE National Association of Polytechnic Students on Wednesday expressed excitement at the decision of the Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics to suspend its 65-day-old strike. ASUP’s National Secretary, Abdullahi Yalwa, had announced the suspension of the strike in a statement titled ‘Suspension of the national strike of the Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics.’ Yalwa said the union decided to suspend the strike based on the fact that the Federal Government had started gradual implementation of the items contained in the Memorandum of Action they signed. In an interview with The PUNCH, the President of NAPS, Sunday Asuku, lauded ASUP’s decision to call off the strike while also calling on the Federal Government to fulfill its side of the bargain. Asuku said, “We are happy that ASUP has decided to suspend the strike. We are also pleading with the Federal Government to fulfill its own side of the bargain so that students can go back to school fully without having to worry about another strike.” Recall that ASUP had, in a nine-point demand, requested among others, implementation of new salary scheme, revitalisation of polytechnics, the inauguration of the national commission for polytechnics, implementation of new national minimum wage and payment of arrears. “The suspension is for a period of three months to enable the government compile the execution of the items contained in the Memorandum of Action signed with the union since April 27, 2021,” a statement by the union read. The union, in the statement, also cited the ongoing efforts at the review of the Scheme of Service and Conditions of Service for Polytechnics as well as the commencement of work towards resolution of the issues around CONTISS 15 migration arrears for the lower cadre. The statement added, “We also acknowledge the recent passage of the bill for removal of the dichotomy against HND holders in the country.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com