Medical experts have said that bacteria from a mother’s mouth can be transmitted through the blood to her unborn child. This, they say could contribute to the risk of a low birth-weight baby, infection of the newborn child, and miscarriage. The experts, a Consultant Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeon, Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi-ArabaDr. Clement Oluwarotimi; and a Consultant Prosthodontist/Implantologist and President, Nigerian Dental Association, Dr.KolawoleObagbemiro, said it has become necessary for pregnant women to know that good oral hygiene can help reduce complications in pregnancy and newborn babies. Speaking with PUNCH HealthWise, the experts say some studies have also confirmed this. According to Dr.Oluwarotimi, poor oral health during pregnancy is associated with an increased risk of low birth weight baby. “Poor oral health could be linked to low birth weight. When a lady has poor oral hygiene and doesn’t take care of her mouth, studies have shown that she will have a low-birthweight baby and it has to do with hormonal imbalance. “The growth of the baby in the womb has to do with the hormonal balance of the woman, for the baby to have an appropriate environment to develop. And if any environment is not favourable for the baby, the baby will not attain the required weight. “Bacteria in the blood can get to the heart; bacteria from the mouth can get to the bloodstream and then the heart muscle, which can lead to endocarditis,” he said. Endocarditis usually occurs when germs from elsewhere in the body travel through the blood and attach to damaged areas of the heart. People with damaged or artificial heart valves or other heart conditions are most at risk. Oluwarotimi, who is also a Senior Lecturer at the University of Lagos, said people should endeavour to eat healthily, eat a balanced diet, and don’t delay seeing a dentist till when they have a medical issue. “People should cultivate the habit of seeing their dentists at least once every six months for comprehensive oral care,” he said. Also, Dr.Obagbemiro said poor oral health in pregnancy can predispose one to health issues, such as miscarriage and heart infection. “Once the bacteria in the mouth dislodges and enters the bloodstream, it can find its way to the heart and thereby causing heart infection,” he said. Obagbemiro, who is also the President of the Nigerian Dental Association, said even without having those conditions, poor oral health can predispose one to other health conditions like heart infection. “So, we encourage people to visit their dentists. Moreover, underlying health conditions like HIV, diabetes, hypertension can show in the mouth,” Obagbemiro revealed. A 2019 study published in the journal of Oral Biology and Craniofacial Research shows that good oral health and control of oral disease protects a woman’s health and quality of life before and during pregnancy. It also has the potential to reduce the transmission of pathogenic bacteria from mothers to their children. The study, led by Anubha Agarwal of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Rishikesh, Uttarakhand, India, suggests a high prevalence of periodontal diseases among pregnant females. “This condition usually starts appearing in the first trimester of pregnancy, reported to be resulting from increased levels of progesterone and oestrogen and causing an exaggerated gingival inflammatory reaction, leading to severe periodontal diseases,” they said. The study suggests that very few pregnant women are aware of the effects of oral disease on a growing baby. To continue reading this story, go to:https//healthwise.punchng.com/ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com