A middle-aged man, identified simply as Chibuzor, died on Monday after he was hit by concrete during the demolition of a three-storey building in the Ikoku-Azikiwe area of Diobu, Port Harcourt, Rivers State. The building was demolished to pave way for the construction of the Nkporlu Oroworukwo Bridge. It was gathered that the deceased was among those scavenging iron rods and other materials from the site when the incident occurred. Our correspondent, who visited the scene, was told that one of the pillars of the building, which was being demolished by a construction firm, tilted and caused the rest of the building to cave in. An eyewitness disclosed that a large concrete from the first floor hit Chibuzor, adding that he was gasping for breath when he was brought out and passed away shortly after. The eyewitness said, “When the earthmoving equipment came, it was scattering the whole place. Chibuzor stood in one side with two other men. As the equipment hit the first pillar, he was asked to move away, but he refused. “He dodged the first pillar, but the second one hit him. The third one that fell broke into three places and cut open his leg and waist. “When they brought him out, he was still breathing, but he later died. “They were looking for anybody that knew his family, but nobody came.” Other eyewitnesses expressed annoyance over the incident and called on the contractor to put safety measures in place when demolishing other buildings in the area. Soon after the incident, policemen from the Nkpolu Division came to the scene. When contacted, the state police command spokesman, Nnamdi Omoni, did not take several calls put across to his mobile telephone and had yet to reply to a text message sent to him on the incident as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com