The National Assembly has contacted the Federal Capital Development Authority over the dilapidated state of the building housing the parliament. A downpour in Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory, on Tuesday, left several parts of the National Assembly Complex flooded, especially the central lobby at the ‘White House’ section of the building, which adjoins the Senate and House of Representatives chambers. Cleaners hired by the two private firms engaged for cleaning services at the complex had a hectic time scooping water to keep the floor dry. When contacted on Wednesday, the Director of Information, National Assembly, Mr Rawlings Agada, said, “The management has made contact through the Director of Estate Management to the Director of Public Works at the FCDA. I understand that there was a scheduled visit to the site today, but I cannot confirm if they have attended to that. They agreed to assess the situation by today. Cumulatively, all action towards remedying what happened here yesterday is on.” The PUNCH reported on May 4, 2017, that an evening downpour flooded the lobby. The Federal Government had proposed N37bn for renovation of the complex, which generated wide condemnations. The amount was later slashed to N9.2bn. Our correspondent, however, observed that no significant renovation had been done around the building recently. Agada said he could not confirm when the renovation would commence. Meanwhile, the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, has asked Nigerians to stop blaming the federal lawmakers for the non-rehabilitation of the National Assembly. Lawan, who spoke while ruling on a point of order raised on the matter by Senator Sabi Abdullahi, on Wednesday at plenary, noted that those blaming the lawmakers were doing so in ignorance. Lawan said, “The fact that there was leakage is a clear testimony, confirmation and vindication of the position the National Assembly took initially. “Everyone knows that this place is overdue for rehabilitation. We went to see Mr President and he was gracious and asked us to meet with FCDA, the owners of the building. “Myself, the speaker, the late chief of staff and Minister of Finance met to look for money for the rehabilitation of the National Assembly. When the N37bn was approved, it was not a National Assembly budget; it was an FCDA budget. “If this place leaks, we are not holding our democracy with the respect it has. We expect the press to inform the people responsibly.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com