Nigerian-British-American actor, David Oyelowo, tells TOFARATI IGE about his new movie, Nollywood and other issues In your new movie, ‘The Water Man,’ you had a troubled and somewhat fractured relationship with your child. Does that in any way mirror the kind of relationship you have with your children in the real world? Part of what drew me to the movie was the fact that I think it beautifully illustrates that loving one’s kids does not mean that there wouldn’t be challenges in raising those children. Amos, my character in the movie, is someone that was in the navy and had spent a lot of time away from home and that inevitably affected the connection he had with his son. I am an actor and I travel all over the world making movies and that can also be challenging for my family. However, I travel a lot with my kids to make sure we are connected as much as possible. There are challenges and any parent would tell you that it is not always plain sailing. So, that is definitely true of my life and of course, it is reflected in the film as well. What do you think parents, especially those that have been absent from the lives of their children because of work, can do to make up for time lost and have splendid relationships with their children? I think communication is everything. For those who have not seen the film, The Water Man is about a kid who realises his mum is very ill and there is a legend of the Water Man who supposedly has the ability to cheat death. The kid then goes on a journey to find the Water Man in order to save his mother. He is a child that has a big imagination and is prepared to put his life on the line for his family. But, he is also a child that is misunderstood, especially by his father and is really scared about losing his mother. Under those circumstances, clearly the mother is much better at communicating with her son than the father is but as the film progress, the themes that bring the family together are— communication, loving one another, not taking tomorrow for granted and just trying to understand where the other person is coming from as much as possible. I think those are the things that are crucial in any functioning family relationship. Mystical belief and superstitions are prevalent in Nigeria. Did Nollywood movies influence the elements that are present in ‘The Water Man’? Growing up in Lagos, as I did from the age of six to 13, one is introduced to the folklore and legends in our culture, and that informs some of the things I gravitate towards. My dad is from Oyo State, while my mum is from Edo State. Both the Yoruba and Edo cultures have deep superstitions and folklore. Some of the stories we were told were scary. Some of them also made us to believe that people could be healed or made better by certain situations. So, absolutely, that background informed why I was drawn to a story like that. However, such themes are reflected in many cultures. I was born in the United Kingdom and there are legends and folklore there as well. In the United States of America where I live now, every small town has its own local legend, so it is a pretty universal thing. That is another reason I wanted to make this film. Are you open to having collaborations with Nollywood? Yes, absolutely. I have been in talks with Genevieve Nnaji, trying to figure out what to do with her. Adesua Etomi is another actress I really admire. Netflix has a huge hand in introducing Nollywood films to a global audience and I think streaming has also helped. This helps us to sidestep the issues of distribution and piracy that hinder our stories from being told globally. It is a big focus of mine and my company to see our stories told to a global audience. What is your assessment of Nollywood and what are some of the changes you think would place the industry on a higher pedestal in the global ranking of film industries? I believe Nollywood is rated as the third largest film industry in the world. That is very significant and I think the change is already happening. The increase in production value, increase in notoriety, the cultural impact of Nigeria and Nigerians on the global stage when it comes to fashion, literature, music and of course, movies. I think that is only going to increase, especially now that we have digital platforms to get our stories and artistic endeavours to the world. Ten years ago, that was not as possible or as easy and I believe that the next 10 years is going to get even better and be more possible. I am very excited as to what the future holds because our artistic prowess is not in question. What has been challenging is the means of getting our works to a global audience, and that is being solved as we speak. When it comes to the music industry, there have been a lot of global collaborations. A Nigerian artiste, Burna Boy, won a Grammy Award recently. Why haven’t we seen that type of collaboration between Hollywood and Nollywood and what do you think needs to be put in place for that to happen? I think platforms such as Netflix would help — having streaming platforms with global distributions. Those collaborations in the music industry happened because there are global streaming platforms such as Spotify and iTunes, which help to get Nigerian music to global audiences. In the past, it was only through movie theatres (that people could access movies) and it was a brick and mortar business. Would anybody see Nollywood films in movie theatres in America or in the United Kingdom? That was more difficult and those movies could only be ‘exported’ through DVDs. But now, you can do that through streaming and it is still new. Netflix Naija is still a new thing and COVID-19 came along and slowed production. But, I think in the next five years, you would see an explosion of those collaboration that would reflect what is happening in music. Music always goes ahead of movies and it’s a reflection of what movies are going to eventually do. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com