Can you introduce yourself? My name is Felicia Ogunniyi. I am Kemisola’s mother. How old is she? She will be 19 this year. What do you do for a living? I am a businesswoman. Can you recall how your daughter was arrested? She is innocent. She did not commit the offence she was alleged to have committed. On that day, I was not feeling fine and I wanted to buy some drugs. So, she wanted to help me get some money from her friend to buy the drugs. I waited for her to return home but she didn’t. Several hours passed and she didn’t return. So, we started looking for her. Later, we were told that she had been arrested by the police. We began to look for her everywhere and I was later advised to check the police command. We got there and found her there. Since then, we have been on the matter. What exactly does your family want? All I want is for the government to have mercy on her. I am appealing to Governor (Rotimi) Akeredolu to help me and the newborn baby to give her total freedom. I am begging them in the name of God. As I said, my daughter did not commit the offence they said she committed. She wanted to help me get money for her friend to buy me drugs; that was why she left the house on that fateful day. Since the #EndSARS protest started, she did not leave the house. All of us were in the house; nobody went anywhere. I have to thank our governor, Arakunrin (Rotimi) Akeredolu, for the efforts to get her bailed.  I am also appealing to well-meaning Nigerians to help my daughter. What other efforts have been made to secure her release? We have done a lot on the matter. We spent a lot. We hired the services of lawyers. Her father has sold all he had on the matter, just to get us out. But it has not been successful. We were still on the matter before we met our new lawyers. Did they say they would assist you for a fee? They didn’t even ask for money from us. Were you aware she was pregnant when she was arrested and detained in prison? We didn’t know anything about her pregnancy.  It was when she was in the prison that I was called and informed she was pregnant. After the information, we had to go there to see her. How often do you visit her? We visit her often and whenever we do, we make sure we buy things for her. What was her occupation before her arrest? She was a student and was also into sports. She was learning boxing at the stadium. We are not happy about the development. I have been having sleepless nights on it because I always think about it.  That is why I am appealing to the government to help me out, for the sake of the baby. Your daughter was recently granted bail after spending months in detention. How does that make you feel? I am very happy now. At least, we can see that she and her child are healthy. This gives me joy. I thank God, the government and all the people that made the bail a success. But I know the matter has not ended and I will continue to appeal to everyone concerned to assist my daughter. Has she met the bail condition? Our lawyer is handling that and I believe, by the grace of God, everything will be alright. The lawyer also supported the family. The wife of the Ooni of Ife, Olori Naomi Ogunwusi, attended the christening of the baby. How did you react when you saw her and what did she do? We were surprised to see her on the day of the christening. She presented us and the baby with various gift items. She also promised to support Kemisola. We appreciate this gesture and I prayed that God will not abandon her (Olori), too. She showed us that she is a woman with a kind heart, a virtuous woman, and a servant of God. I’m really happy about the gesture. We also appreciate Dr Thomas-Wilson Ikubese who offered the baby a scholarship from primary to secondary school. God will not abandon any of them. No one has heard about the father of the baby. Who is he? The baby has a father. He is not around now. Why was he absent at the christening? It is because he is not around. He calls to hear from my daughter. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com