The National President of the Association of Nigeria Licensed Customs Agents, Mr Iju Nwabunike, has said the blue economy, if given proper attention, could create jobs, help the economy and assuage the nation’s debt burden. He said this at the 8th edition of Nigeria’s Annual Transport Lecture organised by Transport Day Newspaper. According to him, the country has 853km-long coastline, which runs through seven of the southern states of the federation, namely Lagos, Ondo, Delta, Bayelsa, Rivers, Akwa Ibom, and Cross Rivers bordering the Atlantic Ocean. “These are aside from other states that are linked by inland waters for copious socio-cultural and commercial activities. These navigable inland waters comprise rivers, lakes, lagoons, creeks and those directly linking to the sea,” he said. He described the maritime industry as “the nation’s economic low-hanging fruit capable of cushioning the temporary effect of inadequate oil revenue”. Nwabunike said, “We are rich in maritime resources, rich in oil, which is transported by ships. But some time ago, in the recent past, we were tagged as the poverty capital of the world. This is ironically our reality, which we can change for the better. “Even if oil prices rise astronomically now to $200 per barrel, Nigeria is a country in debt and still looking for loans to fund the 2021 budget as of May this year. “What this tells us is that oil money alone cannot satisfy our national thirst for funds. Federal, states and local governments struggle to pay salaries while pension and other welfare liabilities are almost unattended in many parts of the country. “Organised labour and some state governments are likely to experience face-offs due to states’ inability to meet their payment obligations. These are fallouts of oil revenue inadequacy and looking to improve in the immediate.” Nwabunike noted that insecurity was still a major problem in the maritime space and that most of the thriving companies in the industry were forced to spend hugely on security. He urged Federal Government to pay attention to the maritime industry, saying “There are untapped opportunities holding back not less than 30,000 immediate jobs if our maritime and inland waters were safe for legitimate business activities where it’s also properly interfaced with the oil sector.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com