A tanker accident will certainly get your attention. The call will generally be one of several types, such as a tanker involved in a collision, overturned, leaky, overfilled, or on fire. Pick any one, and your adrenaline will crank up because an incident involving a gasoline tanker can be a catastrophic event. This is a low-frequency/high-risk incident. Every day, tanker trucks haul a variety of cargo across Nigeria. Commonly, tankers transport large quantities of liquid or gas, including oil, diesel, gasoline and chemicals. Heavy tanker trucks can carry higher volumes about 45,000 litres. There is no doubt that these trucks provide a vital service for many businesses. However, they can also pose unique hazards on the roadways. Tanker trucks are unique commercial cargo trucks that are specially constructed to transport liquids or gases. Tanker trucks vary in design. Some tanker trucks have a separate truck cab that is attached to a separate trailer or tank. This design allows the tank to haul a wide variety of liquids and gases. Some tanks have a compartmentalised design that allows them to carry multiple substances simultaneously. Other tanks are undivided and can only carry a single substance at a time. The design of the tanker truck itself has the potential to cause dangers on the roadways. Who bears liability for a tanker truck accident? Many victims assume, following a serious tanker truck accident, that the tanker truck driver bears full liability for the accident. Oftentimes, the truck driver does bear primary responsibility for what happens when they are behind the wheel. Truck drivers have a duty to safely navigate the road, adhere to all traffic laws, and avoid driving if any danger is suspected. However, in some circumstances, factors contributing to an accident may be out of the driver’s control. In those cases, other entities may share liability for damages resulting from tanker truck accidents. The entities could be the government or the fleet/truck owners. The trucking company must ensure that their trucks receive appropriate maintenance. Aiming to increase profits, some trucking companies will delay routine maintenance of the trucks in their fleet. For example, companies may try to cut costs by delaying tyre replacement or other known vehicle issues. If that lack of maintenance causes a serious accident, the trucking company will likely share liability for the resulting damages. A tyre blow out caused by a lack of maintenance may cause a tanker truck accident. The trucking company requires its drivers to exceed legally-mandated time on the road. Truck drivers can only spend 10 hours driving without a break. A shift can consist of no more than 14 consecutive hours. Some trucking companies, however, may attempt to force their drivers to exceed those mandates. Exhausted drivers can more easily become distracted and drowsy behind the wheel. Both of which can significantly increase the risk of a catastrophic accident. When companies pressure their drivers to exceed the limits prescribed by law, and, as a result, an accident occurs, they may also be liable for the resulting damages. The government can also be held responsible for the accident.The government agencies such as the Federal Road Safety Corps and Vehicle Inspection Officers have the mandate to regulate the law, safety and road worthiness of these vehicles on our road. The present law and regulations that affect the operations of vehicles on our road are not properly enforced. If the enforcement of the present law are properly carried out, most of these accidents will be reduced to a minimum. P1161: Intake air temperature sensor open/short to positive Meaning The engine control module monitors the intake air temperature sensor. The ECM sets the OBDII code when the intake air temperature sensor is not to factory specifications. Possible causes Faulty intake air temperature sensor Intake air temperature sensor harness is shorted Intake air temperature sensor circuit poor electrical connection P1162: Air/fuel ratio sensor 1 circuit malfunction Meaning The air/fuel ratio sensor 1 is installed in the exhaust system and detects oxygen content in the exhaust gas. The A/F sensor transmits output voltage to the engine control module. A heater for the sensor element is embedded in the A/F sensor (sensor 1). It is activated and heats the sensor to stabilise and speed the detection of oxygen content by controlling current flowing through the heater. An increase in the current levels off as the applied voltage to the element electrode reaches a certain range because the amount of oxygen which is led through the diffusion layer is limited. The current amperage is proportional to oxygen content in the exhaust gas, so the air/fuel ratio is detected by the measurement of the current amperage. The ECM compares a set target air/fuel ratio with the detected air/fuel ratio and controls the fuel injection timing. If the A/F sensor (sensor 1) voltage is low, the air/fuel ratio is lean, and the ECM uses A/F feedback control to issue a rich command. If the A/F sensor (sensor 1) voltage is high, the air/fuel ratio is rich, and the ECM uses A/F feedback control to issue a Lean command. When is the code detected? If the element is not activated or the engine control module terminal voltage is a set value or less for at least a set time period when the power is drawn to the A/F sensor (sensor 1) heater, a malfunction is detected and the code is stored. Possible causes Faulty air/fuel ratio sensor 1 Air/fuel ratio sensor 1 harness is open or shorted Air/fuel ratio sensor 1 circuit poor electrical connection P1163: Heated oxygen sensor 1 lean shift monitoring bank 2 Meaning The heated oxygen sensor 1 is placed into the front tube. It detects the amount of oxygen in the exhaust gas compared to the outside air. The heated oxygen sensor 1 has a closed-end tube made of ceramic zirconia. The zirconia generates voltage from approximately 1V in richer conditions to 0V in leaner conditions. The heated oxygen sensor 1 signal is sent to the ECM. The ECM adjusts the injection pulse duration to achieve the ideal air-fuel ratio. The ideal air-fuel ratio occurs near the radical change from 1V to 0V. Possible causes Faulty front heated oxygen sensor bank 2 Faulty front heated oxygen sensor 1 heater Fuel pressure Faulty fuel injectors Intake air leaks P1164: Air/fuel ratio sensor 1 range/performance problem Meaning The air/fuel ratio (A/F) sensor 1 is installed in the exhaust system and detects oxygen content in the exhaust gas. The A/F sensor transmits output voltage to the ECM. A heater for the sensor element is embedded in the A/F sensor (sensor 1). It is activated and heats the sensor to stabilise and speed the detection of oxygen content by controlling current flowing through the heater. An increase in the current levels off as the applied voltage to the element electrode reaches a certain range because the amount of oxygen which is led through the diffusion layer is limited. The current amperage is proportional to oxygen content in the exhaust gas, so the air/fuel ratio is detected by the measurement of the current amperage. The ECM compares a set target air/fuel ratio with the detected air/fuel ratio and controls the fuel injection timing. If the A/F sensor (sensor 1) voltage is low, the air/fuel ratio is lean, and the ECM uses A/F feedback control to issue a rich command. If the A/F sensor (sensor 1) voltage is high, the air/fuel ratio is rich, and the ECM uses A/F feedback control to issue a lean command. When is the code detected? If the element is not activated or the engine control module terminal voltage is a set value or less for at least a set time period when the power is drawn to the A/F sensor (sensor 1) heater, a malfunction is detected and the code is stored. Possible causes Faulty air/fuel ratio sensor 1 Air/fuel ratio sensor 1 harness is open or shorted Air/fuel ratio sensor 1 circuit poor electrical connection P1165: Air/fuel ratio sensor 1 circuit range/performance Meaning The air/fuel ratio (A/F) sensor 1 is installed in the exhaust system and detects oxygen content in the exhaust gas. The A/F sensor transmits output voltage to the engine control module. A heater for the sensor element is embedded in the A/F sensor (sensor 1). It is activated and heats the sensor to stabilise and speed the detection of oxygen content by controlling current flowing through the heater. An increase in the current levels off as the applied voltage to the element electrode reaches a certain range because the amount of oxygen which is led through the diffusion layer is limited. The current amperage is proportional to oxygen content in the exhaust gas, so the air/fuel ratio is detected by the measurement of the current amperage. The ECM compares a set target air/fuel ratio with the detected air/fuel ratio and controls the fuel injection timing. If the A/F sensor (sensor 1) voltage is low, the air/fuel ratio is lean, and the ECM uses A/F feedback control to issue a rich command. If the A/F sensor (sensor 1) voltage is high, the air/fuel ratio is rich, and the ECM uses A/F feedback control to issue a lean command. When is the code detected? If the element is not activated or the engine control module terminal voltage is a set value or less for at least a set time period when the power is drawn to the A/F sensor (sensor 1) heater, a malfunction is detected and the code is stored. Possible causes Air/fuel ratio sensor 1 harness is open or shorted Air/fuel ratio sensor 1 circuit poor electrical connection Faulty air/fuel ratio sensor 1 Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com