FBNInsurance Limited said it rewarded its outstanding financial advisors, sales managers, senior sales manager and area sales managers to motivate its retail sales force and in line with its corporate strategy. It said in a statement titled ‘FBNInsurance rewards retail agents’ that they were recognised during its 2020 MD/CEO Ember Award and The Retail Annual Competition Award in Lagos. Speaking on the awards at the ceremony, the Executive Director, Retail Business Distribution, FBNInsurance Limited, Mr Odinakachi Umekwe, commended the efforts of the retail team for the outstanding performances they put forward despite the pandemic. He stated, “The retail team is the company’s potent sales force. This team of over 2,000 vibrant men and women all over Nigeria has sold insurance under the most challenging environment to ensure the company stays ahead in the retail space despite the limitations imposed by COVID-19. “This award ceremony is to adequately reward the top financial advisors and motivate others to strive more.” The statement said, “At the award presentation for the Ember Award, the Abuja Sales Area won the Best Performing Area for the period under review while Enugu and Aba Area came second and third respectively. The winning areas were given cash reward for their efforts.” The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of the company, Mr Val Ojumah, presented a brand-new Hyundai car to the overall winner of the 2020 TRAC Award (Financial Advisors category), Nkechi Okonkwo. Winners in other categories got cash prizes, return tickets to United States of America, a trip to Dubai as well as training opportunity at the South African Business School, University of Stellenbosch. Commenting on retail business, Ojumah stated that the future of the retail business was going digital. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com