Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde, has said he will not hesitate to arm Amotekun corps in the state with sophisticated weapons if the Federal Government gives approval to the security outfit to bear such arms. Makinde, who restated his call for establishment of state police, linked security with prosperity, saying investors would not out their money in an unsecured environment. The governor said this in the speech he delivered in Ibadan on Tuesday at the opening of  National Democracy Summit with the theme, “The future of democracy in Nigeria.” While advocating true federalism, he stated that this system of government would ensure better security and would address some of the challenges the country was facing presently. Makinde said, “One of the reasons why the Western Nigeria Security Network code-named Amotekun, is recording success is because members of the corps are drawn from the locality. They know the terrain and so can gather needed intelligence. Also, they can be held accountable by the local people. “When the state governors become the actual Chief Security Officers in charge of the security personnel in their state, they can quickly respond to security challenges. “Yes, we will continue to do our best. We were able to get Amotekun off the ground and it is in operation now…but there are several limitations to what Amotekun can do right now and the types of firearms they can carry. If we are given the authority and licence, I will also buy AK47 rifles for Amotekun. “So, these are just two areas where true federalism will bring greater economic benefits and development to Nigerian states.” Among those present at the event were: the Speaker of Oyo State House of Assembly,  Debo Ogundoyin; the  Ondo State Attorney-General and Commissioner of Justice,  Charles Titiloye; the Chief of Staff to the Osun State Governor,  Charles  Akinola legislators;  former Governor of Edo State, Prof. Osariemen Osunbor and the Director-General of the Nigerian Institute of International Affairs, Prof Eghosa Osaghae. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com