THE leadership of the National Association of Resident Doctors will be meeting the Federal Government’s delegation on Tuesday (today) in a bid to forestall a fresh strike by members of the association. Ahead of the meeting, the NARD on Monday listed some conditions that must be met if it would not call out its members for a fresh strike. The association, had in a communique issued on June 23, given a fresh four-week ultimatum to the Federal and state governments to address its demands, including the payment of hazard allowances. The NARD President, Okhuaihesuyi Uyilawa, had in an interview with Saturday PUNCH on Friday also disclosed that the Federal Government had reached out to the association and proposed Tuesday meeting date. Ahead of the meeting, Uyilawa told The PUNCH on Monday that federal and state governments must be willing to meet their demands to forestall fresh strike. He said the association would no longer tolerate the usual practice where governments would promise and fail on their demands. He called on the governors of Abia, Imo, Ondo, Kaduna and Ekiti states to ensure that salary arrears being owed doctors were paid. Uyilawa gave the affected governors till July 26, 2021 to pay the doctors without further delay. He said, “If you read our communique, you would have seen that these are things we have been clamouring for over these years. We go there and they tell us that they will work on them and you won’t get any reaction from them. “The Federal Government should be more serious by coming up with the desired amount for hazard allowance and all salary shortfalls and minimum wage consequential adjustments arrears must be paid to our affected members without further delay. “The governors of Abia, Imo, Ondo, Kaduna and Ekiti should relieve our members from the beggarly posture they have been placed due to the prolonged salary arrears being owed them. If they do the right thing, we won’t be going on strike. The ultimatum is till July 26.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com