Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq of Kwara State on Thursday presented 20 new patrol vehicles and dozens of bulletproof vests to security agencies in the state as the state steps up efforts to strengthen rapid response and curb crimes The state had earlier donated many vehicles to the agencies as part of its multi-layered strategies to secure the state and attract investments. According to a statement, the vehicles comprise 10 salon cars exclusively donated to the police and another 10 Toyota Hilux which are meant for rapid response arm of the multiagency Operation Harmony. “We are donating vehicles to the security agencies to fortify their work. We did that last year and later this year we will be adding more vehicles,” he said. “It is a continuous exercise. The federal government is doing a lot and this is our own little way to support what the central government is doing. We use this opportunity to thank the security agencies for what they are doing for us to sleep at night while they do what they need to do. “This situation in Kwara is much more better than most states and we want them to keep that. So, we need to support them to make sure they keep the peace in Kwara.” The governor said Kwara had become increasingly peaceful while people are finding safe haven in it. “We do appreciate what all our security agencies are doing. This is another block in the building of strong security architecture in the state,” he added The Secretary to the State Government, Prof Mamman Saba Jubril, on his part, said the government acquired the patrol vehicles for rapid response to security issues in the state. The Commissioner of Police Mohammed Bagega, on his part, commended the state government for its continuous support to security agencies in the state. “On behalf of other security agencies in the state, I want to express our sincere gratitude for the tremendous assistance the government has been rendering to us in the state. I want to assure you that the vehicles will be used for the intended purposes,” Bagega added.