The Federal Government has said the migration of medical doctors and other medical workers from Nigeria is being looked into as some measures has been put in place to address the issue. Mamora said this at the inauguration of some projects at Akure annex of the Federal Medical Centre in Owo, Ondo State. The projects inaugurated were the research centre, isolation ward, the upgraded Intensive Care Unit and the reference laboratory of the hospital. The minister, who admitted that the country was being faced with an exodus of doctors on daily basis, said the Federal Government had plans to fund hospitals across the country and motivate health workers to discourage migration. “So we are working on how to motivate our health workers; recall that a few days ago we had an engagement with all the leaders of the unions in the health sector. We are working together on how to increase and put in place some kind of hazard allowance that will show that we appreciate what they are doing. “And don’t forget the Medical Residency Programme is free, you need to know how expensive it is abroad, but we are giving it free for our resident doctors. We also have an insurance scheme in place for health workers We are doing everything possible to raise the compensation,” Mamora said. The minister added that the Federal Government was building a healthy system that would guarantee universal access to comprehensive, efficient, affordable, adequate, equitable, and quality health care for all Nigerians. He said, “It is not in the size of the structure but its functionality; the functionality and capacity to deliver the services that people need is the most important thing and to see that the services that people required are being provided. “The whole concept of universal health coverage is accessibility, it must be accessible and it must also be affordable. “This is one of the reasons the Federal Government is working hard on health insurance. This is one of the ways of achieving health care financing and we are not just stopping at the level of the Federal Government, we are also encouraging the states. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com