A former President of the Christian Association of Nigeria, Cardinal Anthony Okogie, has criticised the regime led by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), as making the situation of the country worse than he met it The former Catholic Archbishop of the Lagos Diocese noted that the regime met some of the crises while taking over power in 2015, adding that the country seemed to have “worsened economically and politically.” Okogie said after failing and refusing to accept responsibility, the Federal Government was clamping down on Twitter and Nigerians using the micro-blogging site. The vocal cleric stated these in a statement sent to The PUNCH on Monday and titled, ‘Cardinal Okogie: Life at 85.’ The statement partly read, “Few weeks ago, on the occasion of the 6th anniversary of this administration, given the severity of the status quo of our socio-economic and political situation, it was shocking that the government claimed that the Nigerian people never had it so good and Nigerians would have reason to praise this government at the end of their tenure. As they say, the matter speaks for itself, as it is evident that Nigeria has practically become a failed state. “A country fails when it is no longer able to protect its citizens from harm and secure their welfare. A country fails when, instead of being a harbour of refuge for its citizens, it turns out to be a cauldron of fire and sorrow that consumes its citizens. A country fails when instead of reassuring its citizens by actions and policies that the future is secure, it becomes a case of most people planning to flee the country to other climes where their governments are truly functioning. Such is practically our case today. One whose house is on fire should not take to the streets dancing. “While it is true that our problems did not start under this administration, they seem to have worsened economically and politically in these past six years.  The sad part is that there is no articulate coordinated response from the government to stem these downward trends, apart from the usual ‘playing the ostrich’ and throwing tantrums when they are criticised, like the rather hasty suspension of Twitter. “The political class, in spite of all their protestations to the contrary, seems unable to stay the course and prevent this slide of this greatly endowed country into this sad quagmire.  As they say, ‘truth is bitter.’” Okogie stated that the “need for us to retrace our steps has never been so urgent,” adding that “starring us in the face are prospects of anarchy.” The retired archbishop also stressed the need to build a prosperous nation “where there are no second-class citizens.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com