The Championships, popularly known as Wimbledon, is back again following the cancellation of last year’s edition. The 2020 tournament did not hold due to the coronavirus pandemic. It was the only Grand Slam event out of the four Majors not to hold last year. However, Wimbledon is back again this year, with fans expected to be present – although not at full capacity. Wimbledon is different from other Grand Slam events, and it’s often regarded as the most prestigious. Novak Djokovic and Simona Halep are the defending Champions in the men and women section, respectively. Djokovic saved two match points to defeat Roger Federer in a five-set epic, while Halep played brilliant tennis to beat Serena Williams in straight sets in the Women’s final. Both players are favourites to retain their titles, with Djokovic backed at 2.44 on Melbet Nigeria, while Halep is the joint-favourite along with Williams with an odd of 8.00. Djokovic is the world no 1 and a five-time champion at the All England Club, so it’s no surprise to see him go into this year’s tournament as the favourite. But aside from Djokovic, Federer also has a shot at the title- even though he hasn’t played much this year. This year, the Swiss maestro came back from two knee surgeries, having played just the Australian Open in 2020. His comeback hasn’t really gone according to plan, but he appeared to be back to his best at the French Open, where he won three games before pulling out of his fourth-round match. But on his favourite surface (grass) and competition, where he has eight titles, Federer will be hoping to go all the way. He was close in 2019 and had two match points on his serve but blew the chance to win a record 21st grand slam title. Despite his inactivity in the last 365 days, he’s the third favourite for the title, just behind Danill Medvedev. Meanwhile, Medvedev and Stefanos Tsitsipas are two of the in-form players on the ATP tour this season. However, their game is unknown on grass, which makes backing them a big risk. Another player that could rival Djokovic and Federer is Rafael Nadal, but grass is not the Spaniard’s strongest surface- even though he’s a two-time champion. On the women’s side, it’s difficult to look beyond Halep and Williams due to the unpredictability of the WTA tour. The French Open had two new finalists, but not one single person predicted it before the start of the competition. But Petra Kvitova, Iga Swiatek, Gabrine Muguruza and Ashleigh Barty are also players who could also make a deep run.