Chief Operating Officer of the Nigeria National League, Emmanuel Adesanya, says the Disciplinary Committee of the Nigeria Football Federation will on Thursday (today) deliberate on the violence in Ikenne during a Nigeria National League tie between Remo Stars and Bendel Insurance on June 6. Remo fans encroached the pitch with the game goalless and chased the visiting Insurance players away, some of the players and officials sustaining varying degrees of injuries. Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, his deputy,  Philip Shaibu, and Chief of Staff to the Governor, Osaigbovo Iyoha, over the weekend, visited the injured players at the Central Hospital, Benin. Obaseki was disappointed that after over a week after the incident, the perpetrators had not been punished and thus pulled Insurance out of the league. Adesanya said, “We can assure you that the issue will be resolved soon bearing in mind that this week, tomorrow (today) and Thursday to be precise, the Disciplinary Committee of the Nigeria Football Federation is going to handle the case and all others pending. By the end of the day, it will be resolved and Nigerians will hear about it.” Meanwhile, Chief Press Secretary to the Edo State Deputy Governor, Ebomhiana Musa, told The PUNCH Insurance would only return to the league if Obaseki’s conditions were met. He said, “The Governor gave some conditions, that Remo must be sanctioned and this sanction includes writing off the medical bills of the injured players who are in the hospital. “The number one citizen of Edo State has spoken and his words must be respected. If they meet the conditions of the governor, why won’t we return to the league? But in any case, when we get to the bridge we will cross it.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com