Students of the Kaduna State University on Tuesday took to the streets to protest the arbitrary hike in tuition fees by the state government. They demanded that the state government reversed the increment which they claimed was meant to denied them western education. The students who have been protesting the hike on their school premises since last week, took their grievance to government door step. The protesting students marched from their campus along the Tafawa Balewa Way through Muhammadu Buhari Way(formerly WAFF road) and headed toward Government House before they were prevented  by security operatives, comprising the police and men of the Kaduna State Vigilante Group. But the students decided to sit on the main road, chanting solidarity songs. The students also observed their Suhr Muslim prayers (2pm) on the road. Our correspondent observed massive security deployment on major streets in metropolis which caused gridlock. Motorists and other road users were forced to take an alternative route to avoid clash with the students who insisted on taking their letter of grievances  to the governor, Malam Nasir El-Rufai. Ayuba Mohammed, one of the leaders of the protesting students, said they were on their way to the government to submit a letter before they were prevented by security operatives. He said, “It is unfortunate that out present leaders enjoyed free education during their days but now they are trying the children out if school. “We are pleading with them to have a rethink and reverse the tuition fee for the students of the poor to also acquire western education. Some of us are orphans and children of the poor who cannot afford the fee.” Another student, Yusuf Ahmed, said some of the students had their parents sacked by the government and wondered how the government think the children of such parents could afford the new fees. They alleged that more than 75 per cent of them would drop out of school with the new tuition fees  from N35,000 to a minimum of N150,000. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com