Osun State Police Command on Thursday said seven people, including two police officers and two constabularies, lost their lives during attack on two banks in Apomu and Ikire communities by suspected armed robbers. READ ALSO: UNILAG fires lecturers mentioned in sexual harassment story A statement by the command spokesperson, Yemisi Opalola, said some armed robbers numbering 35 at about 6.10pm on Wednesday attacked two commercial banks in Ikire and Apomu. Opalola said the robbers were, however, repelled by the combined team of police operatives and local security outfits and were forced to flee to the bush. According to her, the three residents that were killed during the attack were shot by the robbers who she said were shooting sporadically after the police operatives and local security groups engaged them. The statement read in part, “The armed robbers numbering about Thirty-five(35) came in about Five(5) vehicles simultaneously attacked Ikire Divisional Police HQ and the Armoured Personnel Carrier (APC) pinned down at Ikoyi-Osun with several explosive devices and several gun firing in a bid to subdue the capacity of the Police while attempting to rob First Bank Ikire and Access Bank Apomu respectively. “It is unfortunate that ASP Osho Oluranti, Inspector Lekan Olalere, Two (2) Special Constabularies; namely Oladeni Olalekan, and Oyedeji Muyideen were shot dead in the process. “On sighting the overwhelming Policemen comprising Prompt Response Unit (PRU), CP’s Surveillance team, IRT Operatives, STS, 39 PMF, JTF, along with the local security outfits, who swiftly engaged them in a fierce gun duel, the robbers began to flee. While escaping, they shot sporadically, and regrettably, three (3) civilians were shot namely Toheeb Oyebola, Temilorun Adebiyi and one other, (whose identity is not yet known), all male. They did not succeed in robbing any of the banks. The assailants fled to the bush with gunshot wounds, abandoning two of the operational vehicles they came with.” Opalola said remains of the victims had been deposited at Oluyoro Catholic Hospital morgue, Apomu, adding that effort is ongoing to apprehend the fleeing robbers.