Nigerians have hailed UFC middleweight champion, Israel Adesanya, after he successfully defended his title for the third time with an impressive unanimous decision win over Italy’s Marvin Vettori on Sunday at the Gila River Arena in Arizona. Adesanya dominated Vettori from start to finish in their second meeting and though he was taken down on several occasions, he tactfully untangled himself. The 31-year-old had vowed to have a stoppage win in round two, but was pushed the whole 25 minutes by Vettori but won 50-45 on all of the judges cards as he walked out of the Octagon with the belt strapped around his waist. Reacting to the win, Nigerians took to social media to shower accolades on Adesanya, who returned to winning ways after his loss to Poland’s Jan Blachowicz in an attempt to add the light heavyweight title to his collection in March. Miami Heat power forward, Precious Achiuwa, took to Twitter to congratulate his countryman on the win, “Izzy is undisputed for a reason #onlytheviolentsurvive.” Ejike Kanife said, “Israel Adesanya went all Kung Lao on Marvin Vettori. Styled all over that guy over five rounds and totally turned the Italian dream into a Nigerian nightmare. Well fought Izzy. That was very good MMA.” “This Israel guy showed brilliance all through, knows when to use the leg, much improved from the last fight. Vettori had his moment too, but Israel outsmarted him. Good one Israel Adesanya! The last stylebender,” Kehinde Bamidele wrote on Twitter. “Izzy makes UFC look so easy to participate in. Congrats to Israel Adesanya for another fatality win,” @Captainjosie Others believe Adesanya learnt some lessons from his loss to Blachowicz, which helped him against Vettori. Stopple tweeted, “You can tell Izzy took that Jan loss like a champ and improved tremendously, Marvin couldn’t even get him down and even when he did Izzy popped right back up, there are only two names among middleweights I wanna hear, Adesanya and Whittaker, both leagues above others.” “Izzy really learnt a lot from the Jan Blachowicz fight. His take down defence was amazing, I almost thought he lost it when Vettori had him locked in. Congratulations champ,” @guru_kalexis wrote. “Izzy has obviously learnt how to handle grappling from Blachowicz fight,” Abraham Akomafe added.