Gernot Rohr has told The PUNCH that he shunned the Super Eagles friendly against Mexico, which holds at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum on July 3, because he is not in charge of the home-based team. A 25-man list of home-based squad was released by the Nigeria Football Federation last Saturday, with Rohr revealing that he had no input in the selection. The Franco-German told our correspondent that he only played an advisory and supervisory role to the home-based team, the Super Eagles B, adding that NFF Technical Director, Austin Eguavoen, was in charge of the team for the Mexico clash. When our correspondent asked Rohr about the game, he replied, “You should speak with Austin (Eguavoen) who is responsible for the team please. “My team is the A-team. I am supervising and monitoring the CHAN players,” he added. Nigeria will be aiming for their first win against Mexico in their fifth encounter, having drawn three and lost one in their previous clashes. The Eagles began preparations for the game at the practice pitch of the Moshood Abiola National Stadium, Abuja on Wednesday and Rohr, who was in attendance, tasked the players to take their chances when they face the Mexicans next Sunday. “I am happy to see your good training session,” Rohr told the players on Wednesday. “I see that you are already fit, physically based on your training session. You have the privilege to go to the United States to have a wonderful game against Mexico. So, I am here to see you and to help you with my other staff. “We are together and the Technical Director, Austin Eguaveon, is working with me. We are family all together. What we want to see is collective football and not a one-man football. I wish you good camping and wish you all the best.” Rohr is expected to return to the dugout in September when the Eagles begin their 2022 World Cup qualifiers against Liberia, before their trip to Cape Verde. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com