A consultant cardiologist, Dr Monisola Adanijo, has stressed the need for Nigerians to have the knowledge of cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Adanijo, in an interview with our correspondent, said a lot of people who died suffered from cardiac arrest could have survived if the people around them had the knowledge of cardiopulmonary resuscitation. She said, “Public health awareness is important in preventing deaths from cardiac arrest. People should know about risk factors and how to avoid them, as well as what to do in an emergency situation. There has to be an efficient emergency response system in place. From the emergency call centres, first responders, and ambulances, to the education of the citizens on the emergency numbers in their various locations. “It is important to note that those who survive sudden cardiac arrest do so because of the actions taken by the people around them during the first few minutes of the event. “The odds of survival improve if the onlookers know what to do in such situations. Training on first aid and CPR for the general public cannot be overemphasised.” The expert said congenital heart issues may not necessarily be prevented, but the risk factors could be prevented. “Cardiac arrest happens when the heart stops beating suddenly and sometimes, unexpectedly. The risk factors could be congenital, that is for those born with it. It can also be acquired through hypertension, diabetes, obesity, smoking, using of illicit drugs and a sedentary lifestyle. “Congenital heart issues may not necessarily be prevented, but acquired risk factors could be prevented by eating right and controlling salt intake. “There is the need to also advice people to avoid tobacco smoking and the use of recreational drugs. Daily exercise and active lifestyle can also help in preventing cardiac arrest,” Adanijo said. She also advocated regular check-ups to detect health problems early and treat them appropriately. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com