A 60-year-old native doctor, Godfrey Akpudje, has been arrested with two human skulls by operatives of the Delta State Police Command. PUNCH Metro gathered that the arrest followed a report lodged last Thursday by one Ejiro Okoro that the corpse of his sister, who died sometime in 2019 and was buried at Ekpan Ovu, was exhumed by unknown persons. On the strength of the report, the Divisional Police Officer, Isiokolo Division, swung into action and detailed detectives to investigate the incident. In the course of investigation, information gathered by the police through intelligence revealed that Akpudje allegedly exhumed the corpse and removed the skull. He was immediately arrested and two human skulls were recovered from him. The suspect confessed to have got one of the skulls from Osun State through a native doctor, who is now deceased. The acting Police Public Relations Officer in Delta State, DSP Bright Edafe, told journalists that investigation was ongoing into the incident. Also, on Monday, around 11.45am, the Dragon patrol team 31 of the command, while on a stop-and-search duty at Nsukwa junction, Ogwashi-Uku/Kwale Road, intercepted a Sienna travelling from Asaba to Kwale and the passengers were asked to submit themselves for search. During the search, three passengers were found with a container filled with fresh human blood. The suspects, Monday Nwite, 27; Madabuchi Nweke, 26; and Nwite Sunday, 21, all of Ebenta village in the Ohaukwu Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, were immediately arrested. During interrogation the suspects confessed to have murdered some persons in Ebonyi State and were taking the blood to a native doctor in Kwale, whose identity was not disclosed, for rituals purposes. The PPRO confirmed that one rosary necklace tied with charms was also recovered from the suspects. Meanwhile, the state Commissioner of Police, Muhammed Ali, has charged Divisional Police Officers, tactical commanders, and officers and men of the command to be on their toes and step up patrol in their areas of responsibilities, gather intelligence and make their presence felt, noting, “This will go a long way to deter criminals from showing their ugly faces.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com