The Interim Administrator of the Presidential Amnesty Programme, Col. Milland Dikio (rtd), has given an insight into how percentage slots of the reviewed scholarship scheme of the agency will be allocated to beneficiaries. Dikio gave the indication during a meeting with prominent leaders of the first phase of PAP in Yenagoa, as part of engagements with ex-agitators and beneficiaries of the programme in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, on Saturday. Among leaders present at the meeting were the Speaker of the Bayelsa House State of Assembly, Abraham Ingobere; Paul Eris, aka Ogunboss; a member of the Bayelsa House of Assembly, Felix Bonny-Ayah; one Pastor Reuben and Joshua Macaiver. According to Dikio, 70 per cent of the scholarship slots would be allocated to ex-agitators, 20 per cent to impacted communities and 10 per cent to PAP’s discretion. Dikio, however, insisted that the selection of beneficiaries of the scheme would be based on merit. He also harped on the need for beneficiaries of the amnesty programme to think beyond the N65,000 monthly stipend, adding that his new model of “train, employ and mentor programme,” was designed to make ex-agitators employers of labour. The PAP boss said, “We will collaborate with the various levels of government in the region to ensure we get the best out of people in the Niger Delta. We are working to ensure that people in the Niger Delta are also able to attain heights, regardless of their status.” Discussing their challenges with Dikio, the first phase leaders of the PAP said they had lost confidence in the programme before his appointment as its interim administrator. One of them, Joshua Macaiver, expressed faith in Dikio’s administration, describing the strategic communication committee set up by the agency to address the problems of misinformation as a step in the right direction. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com