The fourth Late Stephen Keshi Memorial Lecture will hold on June 7 at the Uyi Grand Event Centre in Benin City, Edo State, The PUNCH reports. Former Nigeria coach Keshi died on June 7, 2016 aged 54 after a brief illness. According to the secretary of the Board of Trustee, Austin Popo, one of the major events at the lecture will be the launch of the annual Stephen Keshi National U-17 Football Tournament. The memorial lecture, with the theme ‘Traditional Institutions and Grassroots Sports Development in Nigeria: the CFF approach’, is designed to x-ray the role of traditional institutions in community development and integration using sports, especially football, as a major tool. The lecture will be delivered by Popo. “This is the fifth year since the legendary Stephen Keshi passed on and this event is the fourth edition because we could not hold the previous one due to COVID-19 issues last year,” Popo told The PUNCH. “Imagine if we are not doing what we are doing now, his memory and legacies would have been thrown into the trash bin. For the event, we have invited those that matter in the sports world for the event. “We have a land donated by Prince Edun Akenzuwa, the Enogie of Obazuwa, in Ovia North East Local Government Area of the state. “As it stands, the Stephen Keshi Football and Vocational Training Centre is fully registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission as a legal entity.” Dignitaries expected at the event include Philip Shaibu, the Deputy Governor of Edo State, who is the Chief Host; Prince Akenzuwa, the Grand Patron of SKFVTC, who is the Royal Father of the day, Sunday Dare, the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, who is the Special Guest of Honour; and Amaju Pinnick, the President of the Nigeria Football Federation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com