The University of Medical Sciences, Ondo, Ondo State has partnered the Centre for Atmospheric Research of the National Space Research and Development Agency, to explore space technologies for the improvement of health care delivery in the country. The two institutions disclosed that the partnership would serve as a springboard to a new research agenda. The Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Adesegun Fatusi, during the first National Workshop on Space Technologies and Health, held on the campus of UNIMED, said there had been little national consciousness or focus on the potential application of space technologies to advance the health of citizens. The theme of the workshop was, ‘Harnessing space a and technologies to advance national health’. “We are proud of this opportunity to partner with CAR-NASRDA to have this workshop, which we hope we birth new lines of research and service engagement as we explore the potential of space technologies for health advancement. Perhaps, no field of human endeavour is as important as the two that we are bringing together in this national workshop. “This workshop will provide us with an opportunity to learn about the current advances in space technology and their potential applications nationally and globally, including areas such as the use of geospatial technologies for primary healthcare delivery. “This workshop is particularly coming at an important point in human history – the COVID-19 era with its associated restrictions. This season calls for greater knowledge and applications of space technology in the healthcare sector more than ever in human history,” Fatusi said. The Director-General of NASRDA, Dr. Halilu Ahmad, who was represented by the Director of CAR described the workshop as uncommon and ground-breaking, adding that the move would serve as a window of opportunity to imbibe new best practice that had become a new order at global level. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com