DESPITE the death of a three-year-old child who was among the 156 pupils abducted by bandits from Salihu Tanko Islamiyya School, Tegina, in Rafi Local Government Area of Niger State, the kidnappers are now demanding N200m, The PUNCH learnt. The infant, who was said to have been abandoned a few kilometres from Tegina town, became feverish and later died due to trauma caused by gunshots. The bandits were said to have increased the ransom for the release of the Islamiyya students to N200m on the grounds that the parents delayed paying the money. The bandits had initially asked for N110m for the release of the children with a threat to kill them if the money was not delivered by Thursday. Tanko Zegi, father of Yazid, who is among the children abducted from the Islamiyya School, accused the government of neglect, noting that they had felt little or no impact from the state government since the children were abducted. He said, “One of the children the bandits took away but later left behind, a few kilometres from Tegina, because he was just about three years old, died due to the trauma. He was feverish and later died because of the fear of guns he saw.” On the increase of the ransom to 200million, Zegi said, “They first asked us to pay N110m but later said because we delayed, they have increased it to N200m. We did what we could do to raise 10m. That is what is on the ground.” Reacting, the Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Ibrahim Matane, said the government had not abandoned the parents of the children since the incident occurred almost a week ago. He confirmed that the ransom demanded by the bandits was increased from N110m to N200m, saying, “they (bandits) thought government was coming in”, but added that it was not the policy of the state government to pay ransom to bandits. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com