The Lagos State College of Nursing, Igando, has said the Jobs Initiative Lagos training is helping Nigerian students identify the opportunities around the country easily. Some of the students who spoke with The PUNCH during a JIL workshop for final year and penultimate year students in LASCON noted that the  training had enlightened  them to other opportunities in the country’s health sector which they could explore for employment or become employers of labor. The training which has now been extended to medical schools and Colleges of Health Technologies was organised  by the Lagos State Government (Office of the Special Adviser on Education) in partnership and LoftInc Allied Partners Limited. A participant at the training, Alimah Biliamin, said rather than wishing to travel abroad, the JIL training had changed her orientation as she was able to see several services she could offer  in the health sector for a living. “I have done some of the courses outside and I know how much I had to pay. But with the government giving it for free, one must commend them. I now understand how best to manage my time within hospital wards and also engage in other areas that can make me become relevant and earn a living,” she said. The Assistant Project Coordinator, LoftInc Allied Partners Limited, Olatokunbo Aiyenimelo, while addressing the students, disclosed that  JIL aimed at preparing students for the life after school, particularly how to become employable immediately. Aiyenimelo said the students were trained on how best they could write their Curriculum Vitae and become employers’ preferred choice, adding that they were put through work etiquettes including soft skills, that would give them required edge wherever they go after school. She said: “To ensure that they become employers and good employees that can work effectively in the 21st century, we also trained them on how they can coordinate their data using different digital tools that can ease their stress at work.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com