Multiple award-winning singer, Simi, has quelled rumours that she is pregnant with baby number two. The Duduke singer earlier posted a picture on her Instagram story showing her baby girl, Adejare, in a posture that seemed like she was about to somersault. Amazed by the different poses her daughter serves her daily when taking her photo, the singer captioned the picture “New day, New style.” The picture made her fans opine that her baby girl’s act means that the singer is pregnant with baby number 2. Reacting to the notion, Simi simply quelled the rumour as she took to her Instagram stories, saying, “Lotta people saying babies do that when their mom is pregnant. She did that months ago too, and I ain’t seen no baby. Don’t let me block you ok? Pregnant ko covenant ni.”(sic) The sonorous singer further seized the opportunity to educate trolls on how their negative comments affect famous people. Simi implied that as much as a person is famous, they are also humans and could be depressed based on negative comments online. She posted, “I cannot make much of the hostility of strangers who do not know me. Fame taints our views of the humanity of famous people. But the truth is that the famous person remains irretrievably human. Fame does not inoculate the famous person from disappointment and depression, fame does not make you any less angered or hurt by the duplicitous nature of people. “To be famous is to be assumed to have power, which is true. But in the analysis of fame, people often ignore the vulnerability that comes with fame and they are unable to see how others who have nothing to lose can lie and connive in order to take advantage of that fame, while not giving a single thought to the feelings and humanity of the famous person.” Weeks ago, the singer who is married to iconic Nigerian singer, Adekunle Gold, unveiled the face of her child as she clocked one. The unveiling was to the delight of her fans who had been longing to see what her child looks like as she never featured her child’s face in photographs. Shortly after the unveiling, the picture trended on the Nigerian digital space as many remarked that the child is a ‘carbon copy’ of her mother.