As the World marks the 2021 International Albinism Awareness Day, the Wife of Kebbi State Governor, Dr. Zainab Shinkafi Bagudu, has called on Nigerians to show love, care and support for people living with Albinism. Dr Bagudu made the call at the disbursement of COVID-19 Relief Support to persons living with Albinism in Kebbi State, at the Medicaid Cancer Foundation Office, Birnin Kebbi. According to the Special Adviser to Kebbi state Governor on Empowerment, Hajiya Maimuna Suleman Jega, who represented her at the event, the wife of Kebbi State governor said “the society needs to change its discriminatory stance against the Albinos. “Nigerians need to be aware that albinos, due to their lack of melanin, the skin pigment are vulnerable to skin cancers and eye defects. As such they need financial support to purchase sunscreen and full-body covering clothes right from childhood. “Dr. Zainab has special care and concern for people living with albinism and as such, has been having series of meetings with the leadership of people living with Albinism to offer support for them. “Last month, she met the National Chairman of the Association and also the Kebbi State representatives of the association, all with the aim of discussing issues that will provide support for them. ”His Excellency, Senator Abubakar Atiku Bagudu too, has been assisting in various programs that will provide support to them,” she said. The COVID-19 relief support according to the Special Adviser, was part of the efforts of the Kebbi State government to identify with people of special needs, so as to motivate them. The Zonal Coordinator of Albinos Foundation in Kebbi State, Malam Abba Galadima, was full of praises to Dr. Zainab Shinkafi Bagudu for what he described as, being ”Mother of the Albinos” in the state. Mallam Galadima, while thanking her and Governor Bagudu for the invaluable gesture of the COVID-19 relief assistance, also advised their members to take good care of themselves and steer clear from too much sunlight and heat as they are detrimental to their health. Highlights of the program include a Health Talk delivered by Dr. Jamil Muhammad and the disbursement of ten thousand naira COVID-19 relief support to each member of the Albinos’ Association in the state.