Suppressing the voice of citizens and youths on the streets, during the June 12 democracy day. clamouring for positive change in Nigeria or scaring them away is not a solution to the crises in the country, Catholic Archbishop of Abuja Diocese, Ignatius Kaigama, warned on Sunday He also called on the Federal Government to systematically focus on farming and animal husbandry, rather than placing so much emphasis on oil as the primary source of national revenue. The cleric stated these in his message delivered during the dedication of Saints Peter and Paul Catholic Church in Nyanya, Abuja. Kaigama said, “The seed of Christian faith that started in Nigeria, like a mustard seed, continues to grow despite some subtle anti-Christian policies or strategies, unfavourable social, economic and political atmosphere. “It is our prayer that Nigeria will mature beyond the polarisation based on religion and tribe, so as to be a shining light of social integration for Africa. As we celebrated Democracy Day yesterday (Saturday), we saw agitated youths on the streets clamouring for positive change. “Suppressing their voice or scaring them away is not a solution, but responding positively and creatively to those reasonable demands of theirs. “It worries me that we so much over-rely on oil as the primary source of our national revenue, and this constitutes the major source of our quarrel about injustice and marginalisation. “Let us, however, remember that there will be less demand for oil in the future and some countries are preparing to use electric vehicles or energy sources like solar and wind, a technological transformation that will render oil redundant. “It is advisable that we focus more systematically on farming and animal husbandry; stop the needless hostility between farmers and herders, and rather invest heavily in modernising these sectors which can help to reduce the number of unemployed youths on the streets. “We implore fellow Nigerians to truly rededicate ourselves to God, show respect to one another, identify with the poor, and practise genuine forgiveness and reconciliation. “Unemployed youths must not allow the healthy seeds in them to die. Keep dreaming positively and back it up by doing even petty jobs that will give you the dignity to eat from the labour of your hands. God will reward your patience.”