The Vice-Chancellor of the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State, Prof Eyitope Ogunbodede, speaks with ALEXANDER OKERE on the growing insecurity in the country and the usual rancour that precedes the selection of VCs of Nigerian public universities, among other things Insecurity is one of the biggest problems facing the country and in view of this, the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities recently demanded firearm licences for campus security personnel across the country. Do you subscribe to this? Anywhere in Nigeria, whether it’s on campus or outside campus, you actually need adequate security. And where we are in the country now, you cannot do without people who carry guns. The days are over when you just use people with batons and things like that; we have gone beyond that.  I also want to tell you that you don’t need to recruit on your own. There are people who are already trained to do that. So, as a university, you can use those people; you don’t need to go into an area where you are not really an expert. And when you look at the Nigerian campuses, you have security men there at any point in time; the only thing is that they may not be in uniform. What is the situation in OAU? So, in OAU, for example, yes, we are very lucky in the sense that over many years, our campus has been very secure and I pray that it will continue to be so and that’s because you have quite a lot of security men there. For you to be a security man, you really don’t need to carry a gun but you must have some people who will carry guns. But everybody should be part of the security. Almost everybody in OAU does that job of maintaining security; we have the porters. We have the students themselves. We have the lecturers. We all know what it means to secure the campus and that’s probably because we came from a situation where we had the Ife/Modakeke riot. So, everybody went through that one; so, we know what it means to have security. The appointment of vice-chancellors in Nigerian tertiary institutions is usually rancorous. What do you think is responsible? There will always be a crisis if you fail to follow some guidelines in the appointment of vice-chancellors. The first thing in appointing a vice-chancellor is to be dispassionate about it. So, once you focus on the person you want to appoint and you want to ensure that whatever the means, that person gets there, the others are no fools. They are not idiots. They will work against the process. When you say somebody is an academic, he believes that he knows what is right and what is wrong. This issue is not about the office. This issue is cheating; nobody wants to be cheated. So, what happened in Ife, for example, had nothing to do with the office. I was a professor at Harvard, so there is nothing you want to give me as VC that is up to what I can get over there. But once you see something as infringing on your own right and personality and somebody believes that he can do something, whether you like it or not, then you want to show as an academic person that it’s not going to happen. If 21 people contest an election, you know that one person is going to win and the others know they won’t get there. But the moment you start disqualifying people before they even get into the process of being interviewed at all, you know that process has already gone beyond the normal. So, you find some people who will believe that they have that power and can put anybody there; it doesn’t work that way. What are the pitfalls to avoid? So, whoever is going to appoint a vice-chancellor has to be told that there are certain things that must never be done. Once, you must keep to the letter of the advertisement. You cannot advertise for professors with 10 years of experience and then disqualify somebody because he doesn’t have an international publication; you didn’t put that in the advert. So, don’t introduce it. You have an advert that says the candidate must have 10 years as a professor, must not be beyond the age of 65 or something. By the time you want to short-list and you disqualify somebody who is so convinced that they are qualified, and you believe that they will keep quiet and not do anything about it, they know they can’t get there but they would make sure that the process doesn’t work. So, keep to the advert. If you want anything, put it in the advert and let people know it. But don’t move the goal posts. Secondly, don’t give the impression that you already have a candidate that you are working for. Once you give that impression, all the other candidates will gang up against that particular candidate; they (favoured candidate) won’t get it too. The third thing is that the chairman of council must be experienced enough to understand the process. If you are dependent on the people within the university to advise you on what to do and what not to do, you are going to get the wrong advice because they also have their candidates. So, you must know the rules, regulations and everything and you mustn’t wait for people to advise you. The fourth thing you need to understand to have a seamless appointment of a VC is also that the person who is going to select a VC must be a respected and responsible person. We have a chairman of council (at OAU). Why won’t I respect him? When you look at his trajectory, you look at what he has done and then you want to say he is somebody that you can respect. But when you bring somebody who is a professor with six years of experience and then they come and say they are chairman of council and because of that, they want to decide what to do and what not to do, we would just watch them and see what they want to do. So, in picking the people who will be chairman of the council of such universities, they have to look at the background of such people. You don’t go and pick a professor in one university that is not up to the level of OAU and put that person as chairman of the council of OAU and expect that he will succeed. It would seem that the crisis that ensues in the appointment of VCs in Nigeria is not experienced in the Western world. Is that correct? No. There is always a problem in selecting a VC everywhere but the difference is that when you take up that position of a vice-chancellor in other countries, you are going to work to ensure that the university survives. The situation in Nigeria is very different. Here in Nigeria, everybody spends the so-called oil money. You sit down in your office, and at the end of the month, the salaries of your workers are paid. If you’re a VC in other universities, the salary of your workers is dependent on what you are able to do. So, if you are not qualified or not competent, it shows immediately. And that is why you can put anybody in any position in Nigeria, whether they are competent or not, because the money comes from Abuja, not from that person. In fact, you can even leave the place vacant; it will run on its own. In all those places (Western countries), even if they invite you to come and be a VC, you won’t like to take it up because you know the responsibilities and you know what can happen within a few months. So, those are the issues but anywhere in the world, there is always a challenge. But at the end of the day, whoever comes in will still be acceptable because incompetent people will never aspire to get to that place. How would you describe your experience so far, since your appointment in 2017? To be a vice-chancellor is one of the greatest things that can ever happen to any academic because that is the peak of your career as an individual, and you don’t want to misuse the opportunity. So, it’s nice you’re happy that you’re a vice-chancellor but, at the same time, you are very careful because whatever you do at that level can make or mar you as an individual. So, it’s a mixture of both and some level of fear that you don’t want to disappoint people, having got to that level in your career. But it’s the greatest opportunity that can ever be given to anybody because you have the opportunity of impacting lives and going even beyond the shores of your country to international level in whatever you are doing. Every administrator has a management style. What’s yours? There are certain key things that you must have the cognisance of as a vice-chancellor. The first is that you must be able to listen to people, whether you think what they are saying is right or wrong. Whether it is necessary or unnecessary, you still have to listen to them because you will learn from whatever they say. The second that you must have as a VC is patience. By virtue of the power that is given to you, you have to be patient. You have to know that people think differently. People do things differently. The other thing, as a VC, you must introduce to your management is the ability to recognise the values in other people. Also, you must not be covetous as a VC because there are quite a number of things that you can do and if you believe that you can do them and there won’t be any repercussions, it can be the end of whatever one has been able to attain in life. So, the management style really is for you to use your experience. Before I became a VC, I had been head of department for so many years. I had been dean. I had been the provost of the medical school and I had been a member of the council. So, in your management style, you must look at what you’ve gone through and then use all that to make decisions and not just what you see spur-of-the-moment. The university marked its diamond jubilee on June 8. What should Nigerians and the international community expect from the institution in the years to come? What we should expect in the next 60 years is Obafemi Awolowo University that is ranked at the very top of higher education in the world, not just in Nigeria. Yes, we are a first generation university. We are doing well in Nigeria; we are also comparatively doing well in Africa. But I want to see Obafemi Awolowo University becoming the Harvard, Yale and Oxford (universities) of the world. It is possible and doable. I also want to see an Obafemi Awolowo University that will identify some key areas where we have comparative advantage and go into those areas and ensure that we lead the entire world in those areas. I also want to see an Obafemi Awolowo University that will not be dependent on foreign grants but that will be dependent on grants and support from Nigeria. The university has had a running battle with encroachers over its land. What is the situation now? The total land space in OAU is 11,800 hectares. There is a particular section of OAU land, that’s Iparakin axis, that is being invaded by land grabbers and that’s because that aspect is already in the middle of the town and very lucrative. In fact, we are told that they sell a plot of land there for over N2m. We are taking instruction from the Federal Government and the government has actually told us it’s not ready to cede an inch of university land. And that is what is guiding our actions. So, we are not leaving university land for anybody. Whoever erects anything on the land, it’s either the building will be demolished or the building can be donated to the university. Having spent decades in the university system which you joined in 1987, what would you say are the memorable moments? I think the day I was pronounced vice-chancellor on May 8, 2017, is a memorable moment in my life because the entire campus was agog – people were dancing and jubilating all over the place. I have never seen anything like that in my life. To me, it’s a memory that will never fade away because we were actually getting out of a crisis situation. So, when people are sacked and don’t know what the future will be and, suddenly, you are pronounced vice-chancellor and the whole place goes agog, it’s something that I will forever cherish and be grateful for. The second memorable moment in my life is my first day at OAU, then University of Ife. That was before I became a university student. I actually went to the OAU for the entrance examination from Iwo (in Osun State). And immediately I entered the campus, I said I wanted to live my entire life there, if really it was possible. So, it’s really something I will continue to remember. Are there sad moments? There are quite a number of frustrating moments and I want to say it is actually from the fact that there are things that you can do that you know that you can do, but the process in place and bureaucracy in the system will definitely not allow you to do such things. I mean you know you have a term of five years, you know that you can do something in 24 hours and you’re finding it difficult to do it in 24 months. So, it’s rather frustrating. We have tried in my administration to avoid quite a number of things that constitute a clog in the wheel of progress by selecting the best people to occupy positions. Yes, you are a vice-chancellor; you can select your friends. But in my own style of administration, I believe that whoever is best for any particular post is the person you will put there. And if it requires going to plead with them to take those positions, I do it. I will tell you, for example, that we’ve made a lot of progress in the area of utilising the Tertiary Education Trust Fund in OAU. When I came, I had to set up a TETFUND office and to do that, I had to look for the best experience of our academic staff to head that office. So, when you see people that are knowledgeable, that are very bright, they are in demand. So, they are not going to come to you by asking to put them anywhere. You have to go to them. And once you are able to put the right person, sometimes, you can relax. But when you have the wrong people in the wrong places, that is always a problem. And I think that the country can actually take a cue from that kind of thing so that we should learn to put the right people in the right places. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com