TRAGEDY struck in Imo State on Wednesday after rampaging gunmen beheaded two persons in Orsu Local Government Area of the state. The gunmen also set ablaze the country home of the lawmaker representing the area in the state House of Assembly, Ekene Nnodimele, after beheading his gateman. Also beheaded by the gunmen was an All Progress Congress chieftain in the area, Jonathan Ugochukwu. The PUNCH gathered that the multiple attacks took place between 1am and 2am. Our correspondent, who visited the area on Wednesday morning, observed that the country home of the immediate past state attorney general and commissioner for justice, Cyprian Akaolisa, was also burnt. The PUNCH further observed that a team of policemen were inspecting what was remaining of Akaolisa’s building in Awo Idemili. Also, the house and vehicle of the councillor representing Amaebu Ebenatu ward, Clifford Mazi, were burnt by the hoodlums after they met his absence when they got to his house. Apart from that, the rampaging gunmen razed the house of the president-general of Amaebu Ebenatu, Oliver Ejelonu, who also escaped death by the whisker. Our correspondent, who visited the houses where the mayhem took place, saw that household equipment were destroyed. The wife of one of the victims, Mrs Nkechi Ugochukwu, told our correspondent that the attackers invaded their house, carried her husband out, beheaded him and set the house ablaze. The distraught woman told our correspondent that the hoodlums also fled with her husband’s decapitated head. A community source disclosed that the attackers left with the severed head of the gateman to the lawmaker. The source said, “The hoodlums met the absence of the lawmaker and in anger, they beheaded his gate man and left with his decapitated head. “They also invaded the house of another APC chieftain here, Jonathan Ugochukwu, burnt his house, beheaded him and left with his head. They attacked and burnt the houses of the president-general and the councillor representing our ward.” The state Commissioner of Police, Abutu Yaro, told our correspondent that the attacks were “politically motivated”. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com