A retail finance institution, Page International Financial Services Ltd., has expressed its commitment to helping Nigerians achieve their financial goals with a robust investment portfolio. Page Financials, in a statement, noted that it had, over the past few years, increased its focus on digitisation, making it easier for customers to access their products and services anywhere from their digital-enabled devices. The Central Bank of Nigeria-licensed firm, which commenced business in 2014, is said to have since been at the forefront of delivering retail financial services in an unprecedented manner to our esteemed customers across Nigeria. Described as innovative, it offers “outstanding products and services to suit the financial requirements of our diverse clientele.” It added, “For over eight years, Page Financials has been helping salary earners living in Lagos and Ibadan get urgent loans, provide attractive investment opportunities, and enjoy fast payments at zero charge simply by logging on to www.pagefinancials.com or calling 01-7007243. “While things are seeming impossible, Page assures you to go ahead and make those big plans, and when it is time to pay, you can turn to Page for up to N5m loan. Page Financials gives customers the opportunity to invest and earn great returns on their investment. “Whether you are a salary earner, a high net worth individual or even a business enterprise, this is a rare opportunity to put your money to smart work and get greater rewards.” The company was the recipient of four major awards in 2019 and another two awards in 2020, according to the statement, receiving the Most Innovative Consumer Lender of the Year as well as the Consumer Finance Brand of the Year by the Business Day Bank and Other Financial Institutions Awards. It also received the Consumer Finance Provider of the Year Award, while the Chief Executive Officer, Segun Akintemi, was recognised as the Finance CEO of the Year by the Nigeria Finance Innovation Awards. “Page Financials is in a class of its own with an advanced electronic payment platform – mobile and online – through which you can buy airtime, pay bills, and transfer funds all at zero charge. This service is available on the user-friendly Page Financials mobile app or on their website www.pagefinancials.com,” the statement said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com