Contrary to the assumption that the bandits’ attack on the Federal Government College, Birnin Yauri, Kebbi State on June 17 was sudden, it has been discovered that residents of the town and the state government had prior knowledge of the coordinated events that led to the kidnap of 94 students, ADENIYI OLUGBEMI writes. Without mincing words, Kebbi State Governor, Abubakar Bagudu, held his audience spell bound, stating, “About two weeks ago, there was the news of bandits’ movement and they were sighted around this area. We consulted with the federal authorities here, who told us that the school had about two weeks to finish its terminal examinations.” Bagudu dropped the bombshell in an emotion-laden voice on June 18, while commiserating with the staff and students of the school as well as the people and Government of Kebbi State on behalf of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). He said, “This abduction was a brazen and tragic incident where bandits confronted the policemen, who were providing security to the school, and overpowered them. Unfortunately, they made away with some students and teachers. “It was agreed that if security could be reinforced and stationed in the school, it is better to support the children to finish their examinations before going home. “The Commissioner of Police was gracious enough to deploy no fewer than 22-member contingent from the Special Anti Terrorism Task Force in the school. “The security agents were around even during the attack. Unfortunately, they were overpowered. They deserve commendation for their gallant efforts, while trying to repel the attack on the school.” It took 72 hours after the attack for the school Principal, Alhaji Mustapha Yusuf, to ascertain the number of missing students. He later disclosed that majority of the kidnapped students were from the SS1 and SS2 classes, who were sitting their terminal tests in the school’s examination hall. The principal told the Emir of Yauri, Dr Zaiyanu Abdullahi, when he visited the school, “A total of 102, comprising 94 students, four teaching and another four non-academic staff members were kidnapped. “Majority of the kidnapped students are those in the SS1 and SS2 classes, who were caught up in the examination hall, taking their terminal tests. “Sadly, three students, one each from Kamba (Kebbi), Wushishi and Anaba areas of Niger State, have been confirmed dead. Also, as of last count, nine have been rescued so far. They include eight students and a teacher.” The emir, who charged the government to summon the political will to deal with banditry and any form of terrorism in the country, also called on people in the various localities to see it as their duty to expose those serving as informants to bandits in their communities. Abdullahi further enjoined people of the emirate to come together and complement the efforts of the government in dealing with security challenges in the area. It was gathered that the Emir’s charge to communities was borne out of the fact that some residents in the areas must have informed the bandits about the security beef-up in the school. A resident, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said,  “The bandits have informants. These are the people that give them information about the level of security in the communities. This must have informed the Emir’s advice.” Going by his vituperation, how committed and desirous the governor is to check further attacks in his jurisdiction will be tested in a matter of days. Bagudu vowed that he and other governors and stakeholders were ready to join the ongoing search operations for the abducted students and staff of the Federal Government College, Birnin Yauri. The governor spoke during a solidarity visit by local hunters to him, which also coincided with the sympathy and commiseration visit by Nigeria Governors’ Forum Chairman, Dr Kayode Fayemi, and his Jigawa State counterpart, Alhaji Badaru Abubakar. He stated, “I will discuss with my colleagues and security agencies in this direction, so as not to jeopardise the ongoing commendable operations to rescue the abducted students and staff. “We will go out there, and like I promised, the day we will move out, I will not be in the office, because we will join you in the field. Also, other governors will leave their people so that we meet in the field. “This will be done barring all consequences in a bid to rescue the abductees. It is not weapons that win war, but the will that bad people cannot triumph, and we will show that; we have enough will power. “Governors were not sworn in only to sit down in the office and work. We are aware that one day, we will be required to lead in the field although we are not military or police. If hundreds of thousands of people can be mobilised during campaigns, same should be done now to join the search operation. “We also need to mobilise, kit ourselves and take on these bandits. Our various scriptures as Muslims and Christians allow us to put our lives at risk in defence of our honour, property and our faiths.” Bagudu asked the hunters to go back and fully mobilise, pending when he would get the necessary clearance from the security agencies. The Kebbi State Police Command spokesman, DSP Nariu Abubakar, debunked the rumour that the bandits escaped with the students to an unknown destination with a police vehicle. Abubakar said in a statement, “Contrary to the claim that a police vehicle was used in orchestrating the kidnapping, the bandits actually hijacked a Hilux van belonging to a High Court judge in the state on the Birnin Yauri Road. “A white hilux van with number plate KBSJ 29, belonging to a High Court judge with the inscription, ‘Kebbi State Judiciary’, hijacked by bandits on the Birnin Yauri Road was the one used in the kidnapping and not a police vehicle as stated by some media stations.” While condemning the attack, which resulted in the death of a policeman, Abubakar stated, “The command is following credible leads and intensifying efforts to track the assailants and ensure the rescue of the missing students and teachers. “A combined team of operatives from the Police Mobile Force, Anti-kidnapping and Counter-Terrorism units are currently combing nearby forests, routes and suspected hideouts of the criminals.” He gave an assurance that the command would do everything within its powers to ensure that the abducted persons were safely reunited with their families and the perpetrators brought to justice. Barely 24 hours after some of the students managed to escape, the Nigerian Army claimed that it had so far rescued two teachers and five students after a fierce exchange of fire with the kidnappers. Sources from Yauri confirmed to our correspondent that some students managed to run into safety when security agencies launched an aerial bombardment in the forest, where the kidnappers were hiding in the early hours of Friday. The source, who could not confirm the number of the students who escaped from the kidnappers’ den during the bombardment, added that at least 80 dead bodies, suspected to be those of the bandits, were counted. The source stated, “Contrary to reports that the students were rescued, they took advantage of the aerial bombardment and escaped. I cannot not give the exact number of the escapees as only a handful of them escaped. “Our prayer is that since there was an aerial bombardment, the students should not be victims of collateral damage.” But the Director, Army Public Relations, Brigadier General Onyema Nwachukwu, in a statement made available to journalists in Birnin Kebbi, said the rescue followed an initial encounter with the abductors in the early hours of Friday. The statement read, “Nigerian Army troops operating under the auspices of Operation Hadarin Daji, who have been on the hot pursuit of kidnappers and bandits following an unfortunate abduction incident at the Federal Government College, Birnin Yawuri, have so far, rescued two teachers and five students after a fierce exchange of fire with the criminals. “The rescue followed an initial encounter with the abductors in the early hours of Friday, after trailing the kidnappers from Yawuri through Riyao to Sombo community, where the kidnappers had split into two groups fled, with one group conveying the abducted children, while the second group conveyed rustled cattle. “The land troops, in conjunction with elements of the Nigerian Air Force, who provided close air support during the rescue mission, intercepted the two groups around 2.30am and engaged them in a fire fight leading to the successful rescue of the teachers and students. The troops also recovered 800 cattle rustled by the bandits. “The gallant troops are still on the heels of the kidnappers in order to rescue the remaining abductees still in captivity.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com