Governor Bello Matawalle of Zamfara state has formerly announced his defection to the All Progressive Congress saying that he is now the leader of the party in the state. Speaking at a grand rally on Tuesday at the Trade Fair Complex Gusau, Matawalle said he had been nursing the ambition of leaving the  Peoples Democratic Party for several reasons. “As from today, I have dumped the Peoples Demicratic Party and join the All Progressive Congress. “I am now the leader of APC in Zamfara State and I am ready to work with each and everyone wishing to contribute to the rapid development of this state.” Speaking at the occasion, the National Caretaker Committee Chairman of APC, Alhaji Mai Mala Buni said based on the provision of the APC, Matawalle was now the leader of APC in the state. “As from today, Governor Bello Matawalle is the leader of the APC in Zamfara State. I also want to bring to your notice that as from today, the APC caretaker committees of Zamfara state, from the ward to the state level, have been dissolved”. The state former governor, Abdul-Aziz Yari, welcomed Matawalle to APC, saying, “I want to bring to the notice of each and everyone in Zamfara State that I am not in any way against the defection of Governor Matawalle to our great party.” Other personalities who graced the occasion included the Secretary to Federal Government, Boss Mustafa, and the Senior Special Adviser to President Muhammadu Buhari on Media, Malam Garba Shehu. Others were governors Atiku Bagudu of Kebbi State,  Simon Lalong of Plateau State, Aminu Bello Masari of Katina State, Dapo Abiodun of Ogun State, Badaru Abubakar of Jugawa State, Babagana Zulum of Yobe State, Nasiru El Rufai, of Kaduna State, Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, Abubakar Bello of Niger State and former Governor of Borno State, Ali Modu Shariff. Meanwhile, all the 24 members of the state House of Assembly, all the three senators and six out of the seven members of the Federal House of Representatives have also defected to the APC. The Deputy Governor, Barrister Mahdi Aliyu Gusau and a member of the Federal House of Representatives representing Anka/Talata-Mafara Federal Constituency, Kabiru Mafara remained in the PDP. Meanwhile, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.),  In a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, congratulated Matawalle on his defection saying the ruling party “is becoming more popular because of its impressive performance record and commitment to good governance.” Represented at the defection ceremony in Gusau by the Secretary to Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, Buhari said, “I’m proud of your timely and wise decision to join the governing party and our doors are wide open to other politicians who believe in our vision to rebuild Nigeria.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com