There was jubilation in Amukpe, Sapele Local Government Area of Delta State after a police patrol team shot dead a notorious armed robber, Diamond, a.k.a Fowlboy who had been terrorising residents of Sapele Area. The Police Spokesman in the state, DSP Bright Edafe said this in a statement issued on Sunday in Asaba. Edafe said, “A heavy gun duel ensued between the police and a notorious armed robbery syndicate. The armed robbers had been terrorising residents of Sapele for some time now and the police had been on their trail. “The deadly armed robber met his waterloo on Saturday, June 26, after a distress call was received by the Divisional Police Officer Sapele Division from Tropical Area of Amukpe that a three-man gang of armed robbers was in the house of one man(name withheld) in Amukpe, Sapele. “The DPO immediately detailed patrol teams to the scene in conjunction with vigilantes. When the combined team of Police and vigilante arrived at the scene, the armed robbers engaged them in a gun duel. “One notorious armed robber who had been terrorising Amukpe Area of Sapele named Diamond, a.k.a Fowlboy was gun down during a gun duel while others escaped with bullet injuries. “The injured suspect was rushed to the hospital where he was confirmed dead by a doctor.” Items recovered include one cut-to-size locally-made gun, a military camouflage sweater and seven phones of various make. He said effort was ongoing with a view to arresting the other fleeing members of the gang. In another development, a 33 -year-old car theft was been arrested for an attempt to steal Toyota Camry in Asaba. “On Friday, a young lady who went to get her children from school parked her vehicle at Regina Mundi, by Ogbe-ogonogo Market, Asaba. “While she was away, the suspect, Chineye Nwakego, while trying to start the car after successfully opening the door, met a steering lock. While he was trying to remove the steering lock, he met the shock of his life when the owner of the car came out and met him in her vehicle. “She quickly raised alarm, which drew the attention of passers-by who arrested him. The suspect was about to be mobbed, but the timely arrival of ‘A’ Division Asaba patrol team saved the situation and arrested him,” Edafe added.