THE Atiku Support Organisation, has called on the Peoples Democratic Party, to adopt former Vice-President, Atiku Abubakar, as its consensus candidate for the 2023 presidential election. The group made the call at the inauguration of its state executives in the South-South geopolitical zone, according to a statement issued by the National Director Publicity, El Mo Victor. The statement titled, ‘Adopt Atiku Abubakar as the Consensus Candidate for 2023 Presidential Poll, Atiku Support Organisation Tells PDP,’ was sent to The PUNCH, in Abuja, on Sunday. The statement read in part, “The Atiku Support Organisation, on Friday, June 25th, 2021, held its South-South zonal inauguration of state executives from the six states in the geopolitical zone. “The event was well attended by all the executives of the organisation from the zone. “In his speech, the Director-General of the Atiku Support Organisation, Alhaji Abubakar Kabir Babawo, appreciates His Excellency, Atiku Abubakar, for his unflinching support for the youth of the country and his decision to give the youth a 40 per cent slot in his government.” The organisation said at the end of the event, a five-point communiqué was including, “The People’s Democratic Party should adopt Atiku Abubakar as a consensus candidate because he has more than enough clout and the needed numbers to secure victory for the party in 2023. “He is better positioned with the needed experience and democratic credentials to improve the economic, political and security situation in the country. “The Nigerian youth should rise and become actively engaged in politics and ensure they register with INEC for their permanent voter cards. “Governor Emmanuel Udom of Akwa Ibom State and the entire PDP governors in the South-South should continue with the giant strides of turning the zone into a construction site with massive developmental projects to stimulate the economy and create jobs.” While calling on the President Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to improve the security situation in Nigeria, the group pledged to work towards Atiku’s emergence. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com