The Gombe State Coordinator, Civil Society in Malaria Control, Immunisation and Nutrition, Mrs. Hassana Maisanda, has called for a concerted effort in eliminating malaria in Gombe State. Maisanda said eight Local Government Areas of the state were benefitting from the support from Global Fund, Catholic Relief Services in the fight against malaria. She said, “The LGAs are Akko, Balanga, Billiri, Dukku, Funakaye, Kaltungo, Kwami and Yamaltu Deba. The project will be referred to as community-led monitoring (CLM), is a technique initiated and implemented by local community-based organisations and other civil society groups, affected groups or other community entities that gathers quantitative and qualitative data about services. “The focus is on getting input from service providers, recipients of the services and the affected communities in a routine and systematic manner that will translate into action and change.” Maisanda noted that through advocacy and community support, a lot had been achieved in ensuring enhanced health care and uptake of malaria interventions. “This initiative is focused on making available quality malaria services, improved budgetary appropriation and community investment and improved human resources for health. We have far-reaching achievements with tremendous results by involving the communities in monitoring and taking ownership of the health outcomes,” She added. Also, the state programme officer of ACOMIN, Samuel Chuwang, said part of the goal of the organisation was to ensure the optimum utilisation of commodities. “There is the need for increased funding for malaria interventions by the government at all levels. There is also need for government to claim ownership for sustainability plan and support in improving the quality of health service delivery,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com