A 17-year-old teenager, Elom Daniel has confessed that he gave information that led to the killing of police personnel and as well as attacks on facilities belonging to the Independent National Electoral Commission and other national assets in Ebonyi State. Daniel, who is at the headquarters of the Ebonyi State Police Command for alleged offences bothering on conspiracy, arson and murder, pointed out that he had never handled any rifle, but only gave information on places for attacks and how best to achieve the attacks. The teenager, who hails from the Ohaukwu Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, said he and his gang members decided to attack police formations when they noticed the force was maltreating South-East youths for no just cause, but sparing herdsmen, who were killing residents of the region. Daniel stated this when he was paraded alongside 59 others on Tuesday at the Command’s Headquarters, Abakaliki, the state capital. He said, “I always give information. I did it at Ishieke police check point, the one at Amasiri Junction, the one at Onueke and the one of CPS, in Abakaliki.  I monitor places marked for attack, before the attack. “I normally visit people in the police stations to gather information there. After that, I will draw the map for attack on the police station and give to the Eastern Security Network. “It was my cousin that asked me to join Eastern Security Network, that when the freedom comes, my 50th generation will be enjoying it. “It was my local government commander, Francis Nkwede, that made me ESN spy commander. He is from Izzi Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, while I am from Ohaukwu LGA. I am 17 years old.” The Commissioner of Police in the State, CP Aliyu Garba, said the teenager and his accomplices were responsible for killing of police personnel and attacks on public assets in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com