The Managing Director of Julius Berger Nigeria Plc, Dr Lars Richter, has assured that work is underway to deliver on major roads currently under construction by the company across the country. Richter said this during the company’s 51st Annual General Meeting at the Shehu Musa Yar`dua Centre, Abuja. According to a statement issued by the company on Monday, Richter said the company had performed well despite the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. He said, “Despite the numerous challenges faced last year, stemming from the COVID-19 pandemic, related lockdowns and subsequent economic crisis, Julius Berger achieved a very good performance in 2020. “In the face of the crisis, Julius Berger maintained its strong stance as a pillar of support to our communities and the nation at large.” The Managing Director also highlighted efforts on several projects taking place around the country while assuring of quality delivery. He said, “We have the knowhow, the manpower and the machine power to deliver faster and more efficiently than any other contractor. “Our pioneering use of an innovative recycling methodology for road construction, which is being used on the Abuja-Kano Road, reduces time and costs, and is environmentally friendly. “Work is underway to deliver the Abuja-Kano Road. We expect to receive the advance payment in the second quarter of 2021.” Richter also disclosed that priority was being given to the Second River Niger Bridge with work ongoing day and night to ensure timely completion of the project. He also commented on other projects being undertaken by the company including the Lagos-Shagamu Expressway, Bodo-Bonny road, Port Harcourt flyovers, among others. Chairman of Julius Berger, Mutiu Sunmonu, said he was proud to be associated with the company. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com