UFC welterweight title champion Kamaru Usman has revealed he initially gets scared before fights, The PUNCH reports Usman, currently unbeaten in 18 fights, including 14 straight victories, made this known during a media parley in Lagos on Sunday. “First is fear, “he said when asked what comes to his mind before fights. “A physical fight is always frightening. So, it’s fearful but that part of life is being courageous and being able to still walk forward and solve whatever problem that comes your way. Just like an everyday struggle in life. You still have to find a way to survive and accomplish that goal. The 33-year-old, who became the first African-born champion in UFC history, returned to his home country Nigeria for the first time in 26 years, added that he had plans to bring the UFC to Africa, after the continent produced three champions in the sport. While Usman is the champion in the welterweight category, Israel Adesanya is a middleweight champion and Cameroon’s Francis Ngannou is the heavyweight champion. “It’s something I desire so much. Three of UFC champions are West Africans. So, it’s very difficult not to plan something like that in the future,” he added. “I’m happy to be home after 26 years to see my people and be around them. It’s fantastic and I’m grateful to be around.” On Adesanya’s win over Marvin Vettori,” Usman said, “I felt better watching him win on Sunday. “He did something I knew he was going to do, which was to win. He dominated and was in control of the fight from start to finish and that’s very important. We will continue to show how far we are from the rest of the guys in the UFC.” The UFC middleweight champion cruised to victory over Marvin Vettori as he retained his undisputed 185-pound title in the main event of UFC 263 in Glendale, Arizona on Sunday. The 31-year-old, Adesanya won via unanimous decision (50-45, 50-45, 50-45) after Round 5. Usman added that he planned to scout and grow young talents in Nigeria. “This is exactly the plan, to be able to use my platform, my skills and outlets to touch, grow and nurture young talents in Nigeria. “As we know, Nigeria is primarily about the youths, so, hopefully, I will be able to spark and effect the needed change for the better.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com