The Ondo State Deputy Governor, Lucky Aiyedatiwa, and the state FA members will meet with football stakeholders on Thursday (today) to seek solution to the crisis rocking the state-owned Sunshine Stars. The meeting, which will be held at the Ondo State Sports Council, was arranged by the Ondo FA following the myriad of problems that had plagued the Akure-based club. Sunshine have not won any of their last 17 games – their last victory coming against Enugu Rangers January 31, with the technical crew members owed 14 months salaries, while the players have not been paid eight months wages. Ondo FA secretary, Ibukun Adetoyinbo, in a chat with our correspondent on Wednesday, said the club’s welfare was paramount and must be taken care of. “All the stakeholders like players, coaches, former FA chairmen, the past leaders of sports agencies, the deputy governor and all football lovers, especially those that love Sunshine Stars, will be in attendance at the meeting. “The meeting is on how to move Sunshine Stars forward from relegation. All problems facing Sunshine will be looked into and lasting solutions proffered,” Adetoyinbo told The PUNCH. The dwindling fortunes of the club amid poor welfare of the players and officials forced coach Gbenga Ogunbote and his assistants Lawal Abimbola and Kayode Julius to resign from their positions last week. Ogunbote, who joined the club last September in his second spell, was owed eight months salaries before he resigned. Meanwhile, Sunshine have appointed former Ekiti United coach Deji Ayeni as their new coach. Ayeni’s appointment was announced in a statement by Sunshine media officer, Chris Okunnuwa, on Tuesday. “Professionally, this is a good move for me, not just because of money, but the challenge involved. I felt pains leaving my former team; it really was a highly emotional thing,” Ayeni said. “The team has a lot of potential and I believe if we put all hands on deck we shall succeed.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com