A cocoa exporting firm, Sucden-olakoko Nigeria, has appealed to the Federal Government to come up with robust strategies to regulate the price of the commodity in order to encourage the stakeholders in the business, as the COVID-19 affected the production of the produce last year. The firm said as the pandemic negatively caused the reduction of the cocoa production in Nigeria, there was a need for governments at all levels to find solution to the price of the cash crops in the interest of farmers and the investors. The Project Manager of the firm, Mrs Mopelola Fabunmi, made the appeal at the grand finale of the School Children Quiz Competition and Award Presentation to Cocoa farmers organised by the Sucden-Olakoko Project, held at Isarun Community in Ifedore Local Government Area of Ondo State. Fabunmi said, “It (COVID-19) really affected in terms of price; the price is escalating, the amount we are selling cocoa in Nigeria, because Nigeria is like an open market, is far higher than what we have in the world market. “In production, it has affected a little because people were not able to go to farms and therefore many cocoa beans got spoiled but it is the price that was really affected. “With this, there is a way the government can come in. If the government can come in to control the price at a reasonable level, like they do in other West African countries, the farmers would be able to get back to what they put into production.” Speaking on the quiz competition, the manager said the competition was organised for the children of the farmers from some selected secondary schools in Osun, Edo, Ogun and Ondo states, saying it was part of efforts to motivate cocoa farmers with education support for their children. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com