Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State on Thursday said that justice and equity would determine his successor in 2023. Ugwuanyi disclosed this in a rally held by the people of the Enugu East Senatorial District to demand the governorship seat of the state in 2023. Our correspondent noned that major markets and motor parks in the capital were shut down following the rally The rally, tagged Enugu East Senatorial District Rally 2021, was held at the popular Michael Okpara Square, Enugu. At the event were leaders, stakeholders and indigenes, led by the leader of the All Progressives Congress in South-East, a former Senate President, Chief Ken Nnamani; as well as a former governor of old Anambra State, Senator Jim Nwobodo, the state chairmen of the Peoples Democratic Party, Augustine Nnamani, and his APC counterpart, Ben Nwoye. The rally was meant to appeal to the governor to use his position to help the people of Nkanu secure the 2023 governorship office in Enugu State. But Ugwuanyi, who was the guest of honour at the rally, assured the people of the zone that the contents and contexts of their speeches were well understood. He said, “Dialogue, justice and equity shall take preeminent in the selection of my successor and everyone in the state will be happy at the end. For anything, I promise you justice and equity.” Earlier, Nwobodo and Nnamani, who was represented by Ambassador designate for Poland, Maj. Gen. C. O. Ugwu, commended the governor for the existing peace in the state and appealed that he should use his office to get the Nkanu people the governorship seat in 2023. Nwoye, who described Ugwuanyi as a great builder and a peaceful governor, disclosed that the APC in the state had already zoned the governorship seat to Enugu East. The state chairman of PDP, Augustine Nnamani, however, said his party was yet to take decisions on the zoning arrangement, adding, “But in no distant time, it would be zoned. I believe it will be zoned to Enugu East.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com