The Senate on Tuesday pledged to publish the names of Ministries, Departments and Agencies of the Federal Government that failed to defend queries raised against them by the Auditor General for the Federation. The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, made the pledge following the presentation of the report of the Senate Committee on Public Accounts on the 2015 report of the AuGF. Lawan said, “This is one of our major responsibilities as a parliament, to hold the executive to account and whoever is given the responsibility and the trust of running any agency with public funds must be accountable to the parliament on behalf of the people. “You have indicated a certain number of MDAs who failed to come to the committee after invitation. “I want you to go through your documents, the invitation letters or the reminders, this Senate will publish the names of these agencies for the public to know. “This Senate will insist that any public servant or civil servant that is given public fund for public good and has questions to answer and refuse to appear to answer should have no business in government because all of us are supposed to be accountable to the people.” Chairman of SPAC, Senator Matthew Urhoghide, said seven MDAs had refused to appear before the panel to defend the AuGF’s queries against their agencies. Urhoghide listed the agencies that failed to respond to the committee’s invitation to defend queries against them to include the Nigeria Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, Federal Ministry of Health, the Nigeria Police Force, and the Federal Fire Service. Others are the Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital, Zaria, Ministry of Police Affairs and Federal Ministry of Information and Culture (Information Sector). He noted that MDAs who claimed their documents were with the anti-graft agencies were the Federal Polytechnic, Ekowe, Bayelsa State and Pensions Transitional Arrangement Directorate. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com