The Lagos State Coordinator of the National Youth Service Corps, Mr Eddy Megwa, has advised Lagos residents to pay attention to their health. Megwa said this during a health outreach, tagged, ‘NYSC Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers’ on Monday. The event took place at the Baale’s palace, Atan Nla in the Alimosho Local Government Area of Lagos State. He explained that the outreach was aimed at reaching out to indigent people who couldn’t afford orthodox medicine and hospital bills. “The outreach was aimed at reaching out to indigent people who couldn’t afford orthodox medicine and hospital bills.  This is going to run for three days. We will be visiting other communities after this one. “We have our doctors, pharmacists and paramedics here to take care of residents of this community. The corps members are ready to examine them, counsel them and give them drugs. All these are free of charge. This is part of NYSC’s contribution to rural development. “Nigeria is a developing country, it is important we pay attention to our health because we have not gotten to where we should be in the health sector, and NYSC being conscious of that decided to take this rural health initiative to the rural populace to assist them,” Megwa said. The NYSC Director-General, Brig Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim, who was represented by Mrs Priscilla Akhamie, said the programme was important to the communities because they could not access adequate health care services. One of the corps members who is a pharmacist, Chidozie Nzekwe, encouraged the members of the community to avoid self-medication, adding that they should seek professional advice before taking drugs. “Self-medication is not advisable because you do not know the right dose to take. Then those who use herbs do not know the amount they should take. Taking an overdose could lead to other health challenges. Then, herbs should not be combined with orthodox medicine. Contact medical professionals before using drugs,” she said. The Vice-Chairman, Ayobo Ipaja Local Council Development Area, Mrs Bola Sobowale, said, “This is a laudable programme which will help residents of this community. They do not have to spend their money because all manners of patients will be taken care of. It will go a long way in their life.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com