A fire outbreak in Ipata main market in the Ilorin East Local Government Area of Kwara State on Thursday left 70 animals dead. The fire incident which was contained by the state Fire Service left 15 cattle, 15 sheep, 15 huge rams and more than 25 goats completely burnt to ashes. The fire which started at about 10.30pm affected mainly the animal and foodstuff section of the market. The Head of Media and Publicity of the state Fire Service, Hassan Adekunle, who confirmed the incident, said that three shops and an open shed constructed with planks for goat sellers were destroyed by the inferno. Adekunle said, “The brigade was summoned to this vicious incident yesterday night, at about 22:31hours through a telephone call by one Mr Lawal. Despite the intensity of the blazing fire, the firefighters were able to eliminate it on time and prevent it from spreading to the surrounding buildings in the market vicinity area. Three shops and an open big shed constructed with planks for goat sellers were destroyed by the inferno. However, more than 470 shops were saved from the ravaging fire by the firemen.” He said that the inferno emanated from a burning dump, blown by the wind and spread to a nearby ranch where some animals were kept. One of the affected traders, Alhaji Kale Kannike, lamented that he lost several animals, many bags of rice and animal feeds to the fire incident. The Babaloja of Ipata market, Alhaji Dauda Owolabi, lamented the huge loss of goods suffered by traders affected by the inferno. Owolabi who said that goods lost to the fire incident ran into several millions of naira added that animals, foodstuff including rice, beans, millet and animal feeds were also burnt. He appealed to the state government to assist the traders to reconstruct the market and also help them with loans to get back to business. The Director of Kwara State Fire Service, Falade Olumuyiwa, urged the people to be more safety conscious in their daily dealings to minimise the frequent fire occurrences across the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com