Luis Enrique has defended Alvaro Morata following the Spain striker’s two costly misses in Monday night’s goalless Euro 2020 draw with Sweden. Spain boss Enrique insisted on-loan Juventus hitman Morata had a “great game” despite spurning two gilt-edged chances in Seville. Marcus Berg missed a major opening for Sweden too, but Spain dominated throughout, attempting 954 passes to the Swedes’ 174. Enrique would not be drawn on Sweden’s containment tactics, before insisting Spain have no need to worry about their chances of progressing from Group E. “I think Alvaro had a great game,” said Enrique. “Of course we all want to take our chances, but other players had chances too. “I think he’s used to it, but of course we want to see that support from the fans. “That’s football though, it would have been nice to dedicate a win to the fans because they were fantastic for most of the game today. “We are going to analyse this game in detail as we always do. “But in this case, I think it’s really clear, we’ve all seen what happened this evening, so there’s really not too much to go into. “We were by far the better team. “The opposition tried to hang back, we completely controlled the game and tried to create as many chances as possible. “We had sufficient chances to win the game. What went wrong? It’s the fact we didn’t take those chances. “It’s very clear and we all saw it.” Asked about Sweden’s defensive approach, Enrique continued: “I don’t have much of an opinion. “The coach decided how he wanted to play, and that’s completely right of course. At times you can make that decision and the other team can outdo you. “They played the way they usually do against us with two strikers. “We only allowed them to have one or two chances, whereas we made a sufficient number of chances to win the game. “But I really don’t have an opinion on that, that’s a question for Mr Andersson, not me. “I think we were unlucky to draw tonight. We had far more chances – that’s football and we’re aware of that. “We still aspire to win the group. If not we’ll aim for second and if we can’t do that we’ll try to be one of the best third-placed teams.”