Kebbi State Governor, Atiku Bagudu, has pleaded for support from Nigerians, saying the military is doing its best after the June 17 abduction of dozens of students and teachers from the Federal Government College, Birnin Yauri. He stated this on Tuesday during an interview with State House Correspondents at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, after briefing the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Bagudu said, “I visited Mr President to further brief him about the unfortunate incident in Kebbi State at the Federal Government College, Birnin Yauri, where several bandits overwhelmed security agencies and abducted a number of pupils, teaching staff and non-teaching staff, and the regrettable loss of a police officer and some pupils and those who were wounded in the process, and those who are still in the hands of the terror gang; some successes have been commendably achieved by the rescue of some pupils and teachers. “I explained to him that security agencies have mobilised and are doing a great job, assisted by the military, the air force, the police, civil defence, vigilantes and community leaders. They are still at it and they are doing a great job. But we need more support from Nigerians and in fact all to ensure that we give them our maximum cooperation to finish what they have started. “The President expressed sympathy to those innocent persons who are held hostage against their will by terror elements and condemned the action of all terror groups wherever they are, whether they are bandits, Boko Haram, or any group that is taking away the liberty and freedoms and, in fact, lives and livelihoods of others.” According to him, Buhari reiterated his directive to security agencies to deal with criminal elements in society. He also revealed that “more governors will mobilise forces against the criminal elements” in the days to come, beginning with Governor Abubakar Bello of Niger State. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com