The Osun State Commissioner of Police, Wale Olokode, on Tuesday, said an Assistant Commissioner of Police had been assigned to handle the investigation into the clash between members of the Kamorudeen Society and followers of the Esubiyi masquerader, which led to the death of a man. The two groups had traded accusations after the incident that occurred in front of the Kamorudeen Central Mosque, Oluode Aranyin compound, Osogbo, where the Baba Ijo of the society, Salaudeen Moshood, and 19 others were injured. The mosque had its windows smashed during the clash that ensued on Sunday when the masquerader and his followers were passing through the neighbourhood, where the mosque is located. Speaking on the incident when he featured on a radio programme, ‘Frank Talk’, on Rave FM, Osogbo, on Tuesday, Olokode said the ACP assigned to investigate the incident had commenced work. The CP, who said the command was not informed of the movement of the masquerader on the day of the incident, added that the presence of some policemen at the scene of the clash would also be investigated. He added that apart from the leaders of the two groups, the command had compiled the names of those who participated in the clash and gave an assurance that all those involved would be brought to justice to prevent a reoccurrence. Olokode stated, “I have assigned an Assistant Commissioner of Police to personally handle the investigation, which is on already, and later today (Tuesday), I should find out from him how far he has gone with the investigation. Mr Kayode Esuleke and Alhaji Yusuf were to come for interrogation so that we would know the genesis of Sunday’s incident, but instead, it was a group from the side of the masquerader that came. “Listening to the members individually, you will want to attribute all the happenings to the Muslim group. Towards the evening, the Muslim group also came, but the IPO, who is an Assistant Commissioner of Police, had arranged that today (Tuesday), the allegations and counter allegations would be handled. “That will eventually lead the police to getting to the root of the matter since it has been a recurring issue. We don’t really know where the masquerader group got the policemen, who accompanied them, but that is being looked into. “The DPO must probably have been approached and thought of releasing two or three policemen and that is wrong on the part of the DPO. We are also handling that departmentally, because if the notice had come to the headquarters, we wouldn’t have given that number. “We have attended to events of such nature in the past and we know how many policemen we deployed, particularly, when there had been antecedent clashes. We would have known the arrangements to make to avert this. “Beyond the leaders of the two groups involved, we have names of those who are also instrumental to the clash. We are working seriously on that to ensure that all those, who are involved in the clash, are brought to justice.” Meanwhile, Governor Adegboyega Oyetola has condemned the clash, saying the state is not known for such dastardly acts. Commiserating with the Islamic group and the family of the cleric, whose life was cut short during the incident, Oyetola also ordered the police to get to the root of the incident with a view to bringing the perpetrators to justice. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Ismail Omipidan, on Tuesday, Oyetola warned that the government would not tolerate any act of criminality or violence in any part of the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com