A Co-Managing Partner, Comercio Partners Limited, Tosin Osunkoya, has said long-term foreign direct investment will help to contribute to economic development. He spoke during a press briefing to commemorate the fifth year anniversary of the company in Lagos. Osunkoya said, “We need FDI that will wait in the long run, five years, 10 years and will be critical to the development of this country. “We want our GDP to go up in the range of three, four per cent, to go back to what it was in 2010 when we were looking at six, seven per cent growth on GDP. Nigeria has the potential to do that.” Recounting how Comercio Partners started, he said he and two others who were already in the peak of their career in the financial sector came together to form a partnership that would create a brand with different philosophy and that would be around for long. He said, “The idea was to build an investment banking firm that would represent our generation. We drew our inspiration and strength from founding fathers in the banking industry. “We thought that it was important for us with the massive experience and skills set that we have to form our own destiny.” A Co-Managing Partner, Nnamdi Nwizu, said, “If we can make Nigeria a fantastic destination for foreign investors, if we can get that to happen, you will start to see not just the foreign investors but Nigerians in Diaspora coming. “And they will start talking about investing in the country and that actually will increase the inflow of dollars into the country and that will build up our reserves.” He said there was a need to attract foreign investors into the country, adding that the rise in crude oil price would boost revenue. A Co-Managing Partner, Steve Osho, said the company participated in raising capital for Lagos State last year, and was an adviser to two insurance companies who were undergoing recapitalisation. He said Comercio Partners concluded landmark transactions in financial capital market in Nigeria and was also contributing to corporate social responsibility. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com