President of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria, Shehu Gusau, says the federation’s election slated for Kebbi on June 14 has the backing of the World Athletics and the Confederation of African Athletics. In a statement by the media department of the AFN, Gusau said news going around that the amended constitution of the AFN was rejected by the CAA and WA were false. Gusau also said based on the agreements reached at the meeting with representatives of WA and CAA on April 21, the elections being planned in Abuja by the faction loyal to Olamide George will be null and void, calling it “a meeting of friends.” Gusau referred to Article 6.1.2 of the 2017 AFN Constitution, which states that only the president of the AFN shall convene the congress, while Article 19.1 of the 2019 edition states that the president of the AFN shall convene all congress meetings. “The claim by these other people that the World Athletics has rejected the amended constitution is false and intended to deceive the delegates and the athletics family. It is in recognition and acceptance of the amended Constitution that the world body reflected and still has Siminialayi Young Pepple as the Director-General of the AFN, with Gusau as president,” Gusau said. “Hence, any congress not convened by the president will be termed illegal and decisions taken therein will be null, void and of no consequence.” The Gusau-led AFN declare autonomy from the sports ministry, after its congress at the Golden Tulip Hotel, Agulu, Anambra State, in December 2019 following what it termed interference from the ministry. However, Gusau wondered why rulings of the High Court and Appeal Court, which affirmed him as the AFN president, were disobeyed by the ministry. “This is very laughable and an affront to the legal system of the country. Those behind the disobedience of court judgments/rulings in the AFN matter will sooner or later be made to face the full wrath of the law to serve as a deterrent to others who see themselves as being above the law,” Gusau stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com