A cursory look at these two terms may evoke questioning glances amongst readers regarding the connection between both. In Nigeria, nothing is ever really the way it appears to be and it is fair to say that over many years, there has evolved a love and hate relationship between the people engaged in the provision of health care services and the officers who represent law enforcement. Whereas the relationship between the two ought to be complementary and civil, ugly scenes have tainted the level of cooperation between these two social services, for, after all, policing is indeed a social service. Certain ugly incidents over several years have prompted the writing of this essay and the citizens are often the ordinary folks who bear the brunt when these two important agencies face off. The risks of collision are worse in the hinterland and the suburban communities than in the major cities but these problems exist. Sometimes, poor management of the situation, the absence of a clear understanding of the mandate of law enforcement, and the influence of rampant corruption in the police force make a meal of small problems. Several years ago today, a colleague practising in rural Nasarawa State was paid a nocturnal visit by these men in uniform. He was informed that he had breached the laws of the country by performing abortions which he knew was an illegal act. He neither denied nor confirmed that allegation but was warned to stop doing such. A couple of weeks afterwards, they were back, this time in the company of the divisional police officer, all of them in mufti but evidently well-armed. He levied the same allegation against the doctor and his young practice. They demanded all sorts of documentation that permitted him to establish a private healthcare facility, and he dutifully provided all. The same allegation was made very pointedly and he was warned of the dire consequences if he did not desist from the practice. At this point, he forcefully defended his practice and said that the only abortions he did perform were to complete the failed efforts of young girls and women who had taken medications and concoctions to achieve the termination of their pregnancies, and was, therefore, therapeutic. Well, they left his clinic. Worried by the repeated visits from the police, he went to a senior colleague who had practised in that town for more than 15 years to gain his acquaintanceship and share his experiences with him. Someone he knew previously recognised him at the older clinic and asked what he was doing there. He poured out his heart and the fellow informed him that the very colleague he wanted to complain to was probably behind his travails: he was hand in glove with the police hierarchy in that domain and was known to often monetarily enable the divisional police officer. In other words, a senior colleague, wary of competition from a younger fellow was willing to run him out of town and out of practice with unfair help from armed police. He eventually reached certain terms with the police that allowed him to continue his practice. Soon, the police would bring accident victims to his facility as well as victims of domestic abuse and sexual molestation. By offering bribes to the police, he was able to establish a practice and thrive because he was willing to monetise the protection of his practice and ensure a steady stream of patients. More than 800 kilometers away in the South-West, in a Lagos suburb, another hospital proprietor who had properly documented his enterprise ran into a running battle with his landlord as soon as he was able to change his old car into a better one and also buy one for his wife. First, the landlord more than doubled his rent. Feeling cornered, the hospital proprietor sought to engage in dialogue and let slip the fact that the kind of rent being demanded was not affordable. After several months, no agreement was reached and he was taken to court after being told in writing to vacate the property. One early morning, with the case still pending, bailiffs, touts, and armed police stormed the property, violently removed ill patients on admission in that hospital, and threw the hospital’s equipment out in the open. A young man with multiple fractures to both legs and the thigh was forced to stay in his bed, immobile for several hours before being taken away by his relatives. The policemen locked up the doors and turned their backs on the patients, one of whom was a young woman who completed blood transfusion the previous night for a serious condition. There was no mercy. At about the same time, another hospital proprietor was facing a different type of battle with the police. The previous day, he was performing a minor operation on a woman who died suddenly on the operating table. He was arrested by the police and charged with murder based on a complaint from the deceased’s family members that the doctor did not show sufficient empathy. The police became accuser, advocate, and judge and swiftly made an arrest. As a young practice, this colleague was obliged to be available always in his new enterprise and he had a couple of patients on admission. It did not matter to the law enforcement fellows: he was taken away for questioning and illegally detained to the detriment of those patients whom they now denied the doctor’s services. After four days of extortion, the young man was released. He had paid for candles, notebooks, fuelled patrol vehicles, and paid for the autopsy of the deceased woman the conclusion of which exonerated him as she was found to be suffering from a pre-existing condition that did her in. Yet, at the point of the doctor’s release on bail, he still paid a handsome amount of money. Beside them on that table was a bold inscription: Bail is Free. Not too far away from this hospital was another one visited in a similar fashion by these men in uniform. A man giving the appearance of a good Samaritan, had taken a woman to the latter hospital with the excuse that he was a neighbour of hers who realised that she was very ill and decided to assist her to the hospital. He paid for the obligatory card and consultation and pleaded that he needed to get to the nearby automated teller machine for some more cash so that treatment could be guaranteed. Not too long after the kind man left, the woman died but the man was never seen again. He had essentially dumped a very sick woman on the laps of a private healthcare facility and taken to his heels. Nevertheless, the doctor was arrested and indicted for being an accessory to murder. Only the swift intervention of his own considerably influential family saved the day, but even so, he spent a couple of days behind the counter at the local police station. All these happen in a country where traditional healers, magicians, and charlatans are almost never arrested for loss of life. The most bizarre one often involves gunshot victims. In some places in Nigeria, you are dammed if they get treatment at your facility and dammed if you refuse them that service because of the overbearing attitude of the police. In one such terrible experience that causes yours truly nightmares to this day, a gunshot victim who had suffered a fracture to his thigh bone was taken to a tertiary hospital in Lagos where I was being trained as a specialist surgeon. While we scrambled around to clean up his wound in the dead of night, splint the affected limb and prevent any abnormal movements that could aggravate his condition, and institute an intravenous line to get him on a drip as quickly as possible, the police arrived and claimed the patient was an armed robbery suspect who had killed several policemen. They threatened to shoot any member of staff who did not stop the treatment we were giving. All of them were reeking alcohol. Realising that this was no ordinary encounter, every member of staff made for the doors and windows. There were four different shots into the young man’s body delivered in the presence of other patients with varying degrees of injury. He was basically executed. Such lawlessness is a metaphor today for our present condition. And no one would ever be brought to justice for these violations of the healthcare space. Dear doctor, I want to know why I am having discharge from my vagina.0903xxxxxx
Thank you very much for this important question. Vaginal discharge is normal. It is no more than a combination of mucus and certain secretions found mostly in girls and young women which help to lubricate the vagina and keep it clean. This can change in nature from clear to milky appearance in the course of a menstrual cycle. Usually, it should have a scent or odour that is not repulsive. When the colour deviates from what we have described above, to yellowish, off-white, greenish, pink, or unduly copious in amount such that you sometimes have to wear a sanitary pad, there is a problem. If it begins to smell or itch or become cuddled like spoilt milk, treatment is needed. Whichever one is seen that is not clear as to what it represents, see a doctor for examination and treatment. Dear doctor, God will continue to bless you for your good works. Is it true that the hope of IVF (in-vitro fertilisation) is not always guaranteed, and the success rate is always minimal? Thank you. 0706xxxxxxx
Well, thank you for your kind words. While IVF remains the last hope for millions of couples around the world to have children of their own, it is not also an easy task. It is expensive and can be time-consuming. The success rate depends on several factors ranging to the quality of the eggs the woman produces and the health of the sperms intended for the fertilisation effort. On the whole, the assertion is true that the rate of success is low and ranges from about 52 per cent for women under 35 years to between 4 and 12 per cent for women above 40 years of age around the world. In Nigeria, on the whole, the success rate ranges from 18 to 25 per cent. These percentages are similar, in fact, to what obtains with natural conception. Dear doctor, I have a long-standing vaginal discharge for which I have had a number of antibiotics and creams. I have also been given insertion drugs by different doctors. But now, the worst part is the amount: when I sit down, the whole seat gets wet and the smell is terrible and embarrassing. I have the feeling that I have not been given adequate treatment. What do I do now sir? This is so shameful. I am a 44-year-old divorcee but I have a boyfriend. Please, I need your advice. 0903xxxxxxx
You did well by seeking treatment for your problem at the time it started. However, it is not clear how much effort was made to make a proper diagnosis before the treatment was started. Also, it is not clear how long the discharge has been on for but it is important to appreciate that once you have a discharge with a disagreeable smell, the infection causing it will necessarily be serious and will also probably be caused by a mixture of microbes. The most important step is to see a doctor for examination that must include swabs and other specimens for culture. This is followed by antibiotic therapy for a suitable duration of time and at a proper dose and then repeat examinations to be sure the infection is cleared up. Many patients never pay the required follow-up visits to the hospital and assume that once prescription medications have been used, the problem would also have ended. Dear doctor, I want to know why I get irritated like I have something in my throat sometimes. At other times, I feel like I want to vomit. I tried to deworm with a new drug called Pyrantrin about two months ago and it reduced a bit, but it is back now and I just wonder what it could be. What do I do sir? What drug can you prescribe? 0807xxxxxxx
Well, a problem like yours is actually more likely to be due to environmental factors where issues of air pollution and the like may be associated with your symptoms. A mucus plug in the throat may be a consequence of an anxiety disorder. It can also be a reaction to certain particles in the air we breathe ranging from smoke, dust, smog, and pollen all of which are present in various parts of the country at the present time depending on where you live. The nausea you have may be related or it may be due to other causes but the most important thing is to see your doctor and complain so that you can have a proper examination and perhaps a repeat of the worm expeller which you took. Pyrantin, by the way, is a trade name for Pyrantel Pamoate and is not a new drug. It has been in the service of humanity for nearly 60 years. It is a broad-spectrum worm expeller that acts by paralysing worms so that it becomes easy to pass them out of the body with the stool. So, your doctor will examine you and prescribe what medicines you would use. Dear doctor, I am 46 years old and have had high blood pressure for eight years. It has been kept stable with the use of Norvasc 10 mg and Lisinopril 5 mg every day but of late, my area has become unsettled with gunshots every night and consequently, poor sleep on my part. In the past one week, my blood pressure has been an average of 182/106mmHg. This is serious, don’t you think! What should I do? Should I increase the dose? 0808xxxxxxx
I agree with you that the readings are serious but when you talk about increasing the dose of your medications, which one do you want to increase? I rather would suggest that you should see your doctors, and let them assess this new environmental challenge you are facing which is now a common occurrence in all parts of Nigeria. It may turn out to be that better control is achievable not so much because your medications are increased in dosage but because sleep is now better. If you are able to sleep better, your blood pressure is likely to reduce gradually over a few days and you would be out of danger of having a stroke or a heart attack. But first, you must see your doctors. Dear Doctor, thank you for the good work you are doing. I am 28 years old and my menses are always painful. I even now dread having them. My mother always tells me that this is normal for every young woman or girl and that when I start to have children the pain will stop. I am concerned that the pains seem to be getting worse as I grow older but is it true that childbirth can stop it? Is there any effective treatment for it when the period is on? Thank you. 0818xxxxxxx
I believe you have been wrongly advised by your mother which is not her fault. That perhaps, is the limit of her understanding. I am certain that your doctor can provide you a cocktail of pain medications that will bring you effective relief over several months. However, at your age and with your complaints of a worsening degree of pain, it will be in order to have an abdominal ultrasound scan done to exclude the possibility that fibroids have become a complicating new development. Other than that, it is not a fact that when you begin to have children the pain will cease. What is more likely to happen is that because of more frequent sex early in marriage, prostaglandins present in your husband’s semen help to modulate the level of pain and can actually banish it. However, it creates the impression that pregnancy and childbirth are responsible for the disappearance of such pain. Lastly, not every girl or woman suffers from this. Dear doctor, my three-year-old son just developed a swelling beside his penis six weeks ago and a nurse who lives next to us in Emure-Ekiti, Ekiti State, told us that it is a boil and we should give the boy Zinnat. We did not see Zinnat but we bought another medicine the chemist told us is the same as Zinnat and used it. The next day, the swelling vanished and we were very happy but the nurse told us to finish the bottle which we did. But yesterday, my wife saw the swelling again when my son was coughing and took the picture. What should we do about this, sir? 0802xxxxxxx
From that picture, I can say that your son has got an inguinal hernia on that right side. I am not familiar with Ekiti State but I know that there are paediatric surgeons at the Federal Medical Centre, Ido-Ekiti. Please take your son there and have this tentative diagnosis confirmed. The good doctors there will then tell you what they will do to help your son. This is a potentially dangerous problem if it gets complicated by an obstruction so I would urge you to make all deliberate speed to get him his treatment Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com