AFTER nearly three years without registering a single Nigerian, the Independent National Electoral Commission is set to commence a fresh round of voter registration across the country ahead of the 2023 general election. INEC suspended the Continuous Voter Registration in August 2018 because it said it needed enough time to put things in order and print the Permanent Voter Cards that were used in the 2019 general election. It is worrying that even after the 2019 general election ended that March, INEC failed to resume the CVR as envisaged by the Electoral Act. As a result, persons who were willing to vote in the Kogi, Bayelsa, Edo, and Ondo off-season governorship elections, as well as by-elections, were denied the opportunity of doing so due to the indefinite suspension of the registration. Worse still, those who would have been willing to vote in the local government elections in various states were also denied the opportunity of doing so because state electoral bodies that conduct LG polls also make use of INEC’s register. Such disenfranchisement is antithetical to democratic norms and allows wrong leaders to emerge. The creation of 56,872 more polling units recently – though commendable – is not a good enough excuse to have paused the registration for so long. The law permits all Nigerians aged 18 years and above to vote, but the failure of INEC to register voters has increased the number of unregistered eligible voters. Young people may be placed on the provisional list at age 16 or 17 as in the case of Argentina and Australia and transferred to the general list on their 18th birthday, the legal voting age. According to INEC, the number of registered voters is expected to rise by 20 million from the current 84 million to over 100 million. INEC Chairman, Mahmood Yakubu, said the exercise will last for at least one year. The commission thereby has the arduous task of registering 20 million Nigerians within a short period. Ordinarily, 12 months ought to be enough time to register all prospective voters, but experience has shown that preparations have always been shoddy. In some instances, registrants are asked to buy fuel for generators to power the computers used in registration. This practice is enough to discourage people from registering. Such extortion must therefore stop. The commission is expected to make it easy for existing voters, some of whom may have relocated, to transfer their PVCs to their preferred polling units as this would increase voter participation and reduce double registration. The decision of the commission to introduce a portal for pre-registration is a welcome development as it could reduce crowding at registration centres and shorten the time of registration during this time of the COVID-19 pandemic. The website should be done in such a way that it can withstand heavy online traffic. INEC will also be dealing with security threats amid the incessant attacks on its offices which have led to the destruction of at least 41 of its buildings, especially in the South-East and South-South regions. The INEC chairman recently expressed safety concerns saying, “We are concerned about the security issues in some parts of the country. The commission would be deploying 5,346 officials to 2,673 registration centres. What happens if any of these workers is abducted? Our responsibility is to conduct credible elections and protect our staff. The security agencies are also facing challenges and there have been concerns that INEC officials might be targets of criminals. What then is the best way to deploy these officials and machines while also ensuring their safety?” Security agencies must be proactive by beefing up security around INEC centres, especially those located in volatile areas. States and LGs must play their part by assisting the commission in this regard. Residents must see attacks on INEC offices as an assault on democracy and should play their part by providing intelligence to the relevant authorities. Registration of voters is not rocket science. As information communications technologies continue to rapidly advance, the ability to make election data publicly available improves substantially, while the burdens for doing so diminish. Nigeria already has several means of identifying citizens some of which include the National Identity Number, the Bank Verification Number and vehicle driving licence, all of which have the biometric data of Nigerians, including age and nationality, the two prerequisites for voting. In many countries, citizens are only required to provide one form of identification to vote. Consequently, efforts should be made to synchronise these databases as is being done in many countries. The process of collection of PVCs should also be simplified. Today, many Nigerians apply for visas within the country by simply mailing their passports to the relevant foreign missions and their passports are returned to them through courier services. INEC can introduce the process of mailing PVCs at a separate cost to the voter as this would reduce the number of uncollected PVCs, which stands at over one million in Lagos State alone based on INEC’s admission. It would also reduce the unnecessary gathering of persons during this time of the COVID-19 pandemic. Underage voting, which has become common in the some parts of the country, starts with dubious registration. It remains a crime and INEC would do well to punish errant workers that engage in registering children. Elections are the basis for democratic legitimacy. The National Assembly, which has continued to dilly dally on the amendment of the Electoral Act, should wake up to its responsibilities so that INEC can properly prepare for the 2023 elections. It is shameful that over two years after the Ninth NASS was inaugurated, the bill has not been passed and the legislative arm of government is about to proceed on a two-month recess from July. Voting remains the only method to elect leaders in a democracy and only those who are registered can do so. Nigerians must resist the temptation to wait till the last minute to register because this could prove costly as past experiences have shown. Having a credible voter register is the first step to conducting successful elections and INEC must play its role effectively. Civil Society Organisations and other stakeholders should play their part by encouraging registration through effective advocacy. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com