FORMER National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomhole, on Monday, appealed to members of the party in Edo State, to keep faith with the party in spite of the current challenges. Oshiomhole made this appeal during the party’s enlarged leaders meeting across the Edo North senatorial district. He said that irrespective of the outcome of the last governorship election, Edo North APC had sufficient reasons to be proud. Oshiomhole said, “The unity of this senatorial zone must be maintained, serviced and sustained. The only way to sustain it is through cooperation and constant meetings at all levels. “I appeal to party leaders to always have all-inclusive meetings to carry everybody along at the wards, local and state levels. Politics is a game of numbers and everyone is important in politics. “There are grumblings and quarrels in some local governments areas. That is understandable because in a relationship there are bound to be quarrels, but as leaders, we must realise that we have a duty to settle such quarrels and put them behind us.” He commended 14 APC House of Assembly members-elect who are yet to be sworn in while expressing belief that justice would be served at the right time. He also told the party members across the senatorial zone to be proud of themselves because as at today, “no projects are ongoing in Edo North apart from constituency projects being done by APC legislators in the National Assembly and those influenced by the Minister, Clem Agba.” He further said, “I have every reason to be grateful to God for His grace upon me. It is on record that I did not only govern Edo State for eight years, but the party also worked hard to have my successor elected on its platform. It does not matter what happened after. I was also privileged to become the national chairman of our party and it does not matter even if I had spent just two days in that office. “It is for this reason that I have an obligation to continue to maintain and sustain the ladder which by the help of other people I used to climb up, so that others too can take advantage of that ladder to even climb higher than I did.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com