ONLY 15 out of the 31 political parties which participated in the governorship elections in Edo and Ondo states on September 19 and October 10, 2020, respectively, have submitted their election expenses reports and election contribution, the Independent National Electoral Commission lamented on Thursday. The commission also said that all the 18 political parties had expressed interest to present candidates for the Anambra State governorship election scheduled for November 6. The Chairman of INEC, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, who stated these in Abuja at the second quarterly meeting with political parties, also expressed disappointment that candidates partaking in elections were now being determined through litigation long after elections had been concluded and winners declared. According to Yakubu, the purpose of the meeting was to consult with political parties on the resumption of the Continuous Voter Registration. He said, “May I also draw your attention to your obligation under Sections 92 (3) and 93 (4) of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended) which require political parties to submit to the commission their election expenses reports within six months and election contribution report within three months after the declarations of result of an election. “We have reminded political parties of these obligations in respect of the Edo and Ondo governorship elections held last year. However, only seven out of 14 political parties have responded in the case of Edo State and eight out of 17 for Ondo State. “We wish to remind political parties of the consequences of the failure to do so as enshrined in the Electoral Act. We, therefore, expect all defaulting parties to comply in earnest as you prepare for forthcoming elections.” He said, “In respect of the Anambra State governorship election, all the 18 political parties have expressed interest to participate and have scheduled their primaries for the election in line with the dates provided for in the timetable released by the commission. “In the case of the FCT Area Council elections, political parties have concluded their primaries for the 68 constituencies made up of six Area Council chairmen and 62 councillors. “A total of 14 out of 18 political parties have nominated 110 candidates for chairmanship/deputy chairmanship positions and 362 candidates for councillorships. “On this note, I would like to remind political parties about the recent letters written to you by the commission on the imperative of complying with the provisions of the law as well as our regulations governing the conduct of party primaries and nomination of candidates. “The commission is not happy that candidates for elections are now being determined through litigation long after elections have been concluded and winners declared by INEC.” The INEC chairman said the commission would on Monday, June 28, 2021, resume the Continuous Voter Registration, including the creation of a portal that would enable Nigerians to commence their registration online before concluding the process physically at designated centres.