THE Presidency on Sunday said it was curious that the Niger Delta Avengers issued threats to resume bombing of critical oil and gas installations less than 48 hours after the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), met with the leadership of the Niger Delta and Ijaw National Congress and the major issues received response. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, disclosed this in a statement titled, ‘Demands by Niger Delta Avengers: President Buhari’s response.’ The Niger Delta group had threatened to embark on economic sabotage unless certain demands, including the development of the Niger Delta and restructuring are met. But Adesina said the text of Buhari’s speech at the meeting with the Niger Delta leaders on Friday, which he reproduced in his press statement, rendered the threats by the group unnecessary. The statement read, “It is, however, curious that the threat was coming less than 48 hours after President Muhammadu Buhari met with the leadership of the Niger Delta and Ijaw National Congress at the Presidential Villa, and the germane issues had been responded to, especially call for the restructuring of the federation, and the inauguration of a board for the Niger Delta Development Commission. “For clarity and record purposes, below is a full text of the speech by President Buhari on Friday, June 25, 2021, which renders any sabre-rattling rather unnecessary.” In the reproduced text, Buhari told his guests that he was aware of the 10-point demand which the national executive of the Ijaw National Congress made to the Federal Government and assured them that his regime was addressing them. The President also said he was concerned about the rate of environmental degradation in the Niger Delta and reminded his guests that the Hydrocarbon Pollution Remediation Project had started work with remediation efforts in Ogoni land. He said he had directed the Minister of Environment to ensure that the projects were implemented with a high percentage of local content and inclusion of the surrounding communities. Addressing the call for restructuring, Buhari had said, “The National Assembly whose responsibility it is to ensure that our constitution responds to the call for a restructured Nigeria has already concluded regional consultations and as soon as they finalise the process, necessary action would not be delayed on my part. “In the same vein, your call for the creation of two additional states and more local government areas for the Ijaw people is a legislative matter, which should naturally be handled by the National Assembly and seeking concurrence at the state levels.” On the issue of fair and balanced appointments to reflect federal character principles, Buhari said, “I re-affirm that this has always been my focus and would continue to be because I have always seen Nigeria as a country where everyone should be given equal opportunities.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com