THE Sultan of Sokoto, Sa’ad Abubakar III, added his voice to renewed calls on the Federal Government to provide detailed accounts of all funds and assets recovered in the anti-corruption drive and how they are spent. Rightly, he said the government owed the public full explanations of how much has been recovered, “where the monies are and what are they doing with them?” Indeed, the issue of recovered assets and their use has become as vexatious as the looting, and failure to render account has brought the flailing anti-corruption campaign into further disrepute. Accountability is a central expectation of governance and is described as “the hallmark of modern democratic governance.” Successive Nigerian governments have however demonstrated scant regard for accountability. Abubakar reminded them of this at the zonal dialogue on National Ethics and Integrity Policy in Sokoto, organised by Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation in collaboration with the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission. He said, “This explanation is necessary considering the state of our education and other infrastructure like roads which need serious government attention.” Many Nigerians share his concerns as do our foreign partners; agencies and countries that have since 1998 collaborated to help locate, recover, and repatriate funds and other assets. In a democracy, funds should never be spent unless duly appropriated by the parliament. Nigerian governments should stop spending from recovered sums under spurious guises in defiance of the constitution. A House of Representatives ad hoc committee is currently investigating the status of all the loot and assets recovered in the years 2002 to 2020. Several NGOs, notably Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project, have filed a series of Freedom of Information Act requests and even lawsuits seeking detailed accounting of recovered assets to no avail. The regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), like its predecessors, has failed to render account to the people. Instead, scandals and controversies have broken out over the recoveries with universal acknowledgment says The Economist of London, that “recovered looted funds are sometimes re-looted.” The story began in 1998 when the reviled military head of state, Sani Abacha, died suddenly and his successor, Abdulsalami Abubakar, began the still ongoing efforts to recover the estimated $2.5 billion to $5 billion funds the dictator stole and stashed away in foreign banks. Civil rule has not stopped the looting spree. Since they were established, the ICPC in 2000 and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission in 2004, and other agencies have recovered huge amounts, including movable and immovable property, from former and serving public officials, companies, and individuals. Former acting Chairman of the EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, said that N871 billion in cash was recovered in the first three years of his stewardship till November 2018; 407 mansions, 259 vehicles, nine petrol stations, 98 plots of land, company shares, shipping vessel, hospitals and heavy machinery and equipment were also seized. Jewellery valued at N14.4billion was reportedly recovered from a former minister. Over $1 billion had been returned to Nigeria from the Abacha loot by 2018 by the governments of Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, the United Kingdom, the United States and Jersey. Full details have never been provided. SERAP last month filed a fresh FoI request asking the regime to account for the $700 million it recovered in the last four years and how it intends to spend the £4.2 million it recently received from the UK that was stolen by convicted former Delta State Governor, James Ibori. If Nigeria, which accounts for 20 per cent of illicit financial flows from sub-Saharan Africa, cleans up, recoveries could help reverse the current cash crunch. In recognition of its importance to developing nations that lose $40 billion-$50 billion each year to corruption, the United Nations Convention against Corruption designated recovery of looted assets as a fundamental principle. It is included in the Sustainable Development Goals as a key funding component. The Federal Government persistently fails to render account amid scandals over the recovered assets and their disposal. This featured in the public spat between Magu and the Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, and the former’s eventual ouster last year. Every year, the government says it will partly fund the national budget from proceeds of recoveries but never provides details. Nigerians are yet to be given details of how the $311 million recovered last year and agreed with the returning countries to be deployed in three major ongoing highway projects have been deployed. Both the EFCC and the Office of the AGF have been accused of improper disposal of assets without thorough follow-up investigation. A presidential committee recently set up to handle disposal of recovered assets has not made its findings public. Such shenanigans have compelled foreign governments to stipulate conditions and projects returned monies must be used for, a humiliating slap on the country’s sovereignty. In defence of the government, Malami said the failure since 2017 by the National Assembly to pass the Proceeds of Crimes Bill that provides for a statutory assets management and recovery agency that would have all relevant data on recoveries and disposal, was to blame. He insisted that recovered sums are lodged with the Central Bank of Nigeria and duly appropriated by NASS along with other funds. Lawmakers dispute this. There should be full accounting. Democracy is meaningless without transparency and accountability. Citizens should be able to know details of all recoveries and how they are utilised simply by visiting the relevant government website. The Westminster Foundation for Democracy, an agency of the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office, says, “How governments spend taxpayers’ money is too important to be left unchecked. Elected representatives, especially at a time of great pressure on budgets, must be empowered to scrutinise and control spending decisions.” Erasing the country’s horrible rating as one of the world’s most corrupt requires an efficient anti-corruption strategy that includes transparent processes of lawfully disposing recovered assets that must be monitored, scrutinised, and endorsed by the citizens and their elected representatives. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com