As the world celebrates Father’s Day, KELVIN EKERETE takes a look at athletes who have continued the legacies of their fathers in their chosen sport It’s sometimes difficult to follow in one’s father’s footsteps. Of course, how do you intend to challenge your father’s sporting record especially if they are Michael Jordan, Zinedine Zidane, Cristiano Ronaldo or Lionel Messi? But all over the world in different sports, children have been successful in the sports that brought their parents fame. As the world celebrates Father’s Day today, we take a look at sports people in Nigeria and globally, who followed in their father’s footsteps. Dominic Iorfa (Snr/Jnr) Dominic Iorfa (Snr) was a former Nigeria striker who made four appearances for the national team. Iorfa, who began his career with home club BBC Lions of Gboko, played abroad for clubs such as Royal Antwerp in Belgium, Queens Park Rangers in England and Turkish giants, Galatasaray. His son, Dominic Iorfa (Jnr), 25, followed his father’s footsteps and has represented England at U-18, 20 and U-21 levels. He currently plays for English Championships side, Sheffield Wednesday, after spells at Wolverhampton Wanderers, Shrewsbury Town and Ipswich Town. Cyril Okosieme, Ndubuisi and Nkiru Okosieme The Okosieme football dynasty in Nigeria has father Cyril Okosieme, a celebrated goalkeeper with Bendel Insurance, Enugu Rangers in the 60s and 70s, with his son Ndubuisi and daughter Nkiru also playing football professionally. Nkiru won three AWCON titles and represented Nigeria at four Women’s World Cup in 1991, 1995, 1999 and 2003. She scored three goals in four games as Nigeria reached the quarter-finals at the1999 Women’s World Cup in the US. Ndubuisi was part of the Nigeria squad at the 1985 U-20 World Cup that claimed bronze and was part of the Super Eagles squad that reached the final of the 1988 AFCON in Morocco. He also represented Nigeria at the 1988 Seoul Olympics. Ojokolo Torunarihga, Junior and Jordan Torunarihga Ojokolo, a former Nigeria international, played as a forward for German club Chemnitzer between 1991 and 1995. His sons Junior and Jordan have also followed his path, with Jordan, 23, currently playing for Bundesliga side Hertha Berlin while his elder brother, Junior, 31, played for several clubs including Fortuna Sittard, Hertha Berlin, amongst others. Clement Temile, Toto Tamuz Temile scored three goals in six appearances for the Nigerian national team. A tricky winger with good control of the ball in the air, he played for Bendel Insurance and Beitar Natanya in Israel. His son Toto Tamuz moved with his father to Israel and played for Israeli clubs, including giants Hapoel Tel Aviv and Beitar Jerusalem, before spells in Romania, China and Russia. He played for the Israeli national team, scoring two goals in 10 appearances between 2006 and 2007. Joe and Kobe Bryant Kobe Bryant’s father Joe played in the NBA for nearly two decades before his son went on to have a Hall of Fame career in basketball. Kobe won multiple championships with the Los Angeles Lakers while establishing himself as one of the best players of his generation. Patrick and Justin Kluivert Patrick Kluivert played for clubs including Ajax, AC Milan and Barcelona during his career, scoring 200 times. He won the Eredivisie twice, the Champions League and La Liga. He also scored 40 goals in 79 appearances for the Netherlands, helping them to the World Cup semi-finals in 1998. His son Patrick isn’t bad either. Also starting out at Ajax, Kluivert Jnr scored his first senior goal in March 2017 a decade and a day after his father’s last career strike, earning himself a Europa League runners-up medal at the end of the season. He scored 11 goals in 36 games the following campaign to earn a move to Roma for an initial €17.25m, again following in his father’s footsteps by heading to Italy after leaving Amsterdam. Erling Haaland Alf-Inge Haaland enjoyed a fine career in England with Nottingham Forest, Leeds United and Manchester City before his career was brought to a premature end, with a little help from a tackle by Manchester United’s Roy Keane. His son, Erling, is currently the most sought after striker in the world, having been ferocious in front of goal for German side Borussia Dortmund. Timothy Weah Veteran Italian goalkeeper Gianluigi Buffon made his debut for Parma in 1995, keeping a clean sheet against George Weah’s AC Milan. Twenty-three years later, Buffon became a teammate of George’s son, Timothy, at Paris Saint-German. That aptly described the career of Weah, now the President of Liberia, and his son, Timothy, who chose the US, where he was born, ahead of Liberia, the country of his father. Tim left the New York Red Bulls Academy in 2014 to join PSG, for whom his dad also played for, before a loan spell at Celtic and a permanent move to Lille in 2019. Enzo, Luca, Theo and Elyaz Zidane Zinedine has four sons who are all a bit handy, which should come as little surprise. And all four started their youth careers with Real Madrid. The World Cup winner’s eldest boy, Enzo, joined Swiss Super League team FC Lausanne-Sport in January 2018 after a half-season spell at Alaves, while Luca, a goalkeeper, made his debut for Real’s first team on the final day of the 2017/18 season. Younger brothers Theo and Elyaz are working their way through the ranks as attacking midfielders. Giovanni Simeone Zidane obviously had no qualms about his sons being on the books at Real, but Diego Simeone is having none of it. Despite his son Giovanni, a talented striker who has already moved from River Plate to Genoa and then to Fiorentina, impressing in Serie A and through the international youth ranks with Argentina, dad Diego refuted suggestions earlier that he could take his son to Atletico. He said, “Giovanni has qualities that I like a lot and with effort and hard work he will definitely become a big player, but not with my team.” Ianis Hagi European Golden Boy nominee Ianis also signed for Fiorentina in July 2016, joining for €2m from Viitorul Constanța He made two substitute appearances in Serie A in 2016-17 before moving back to Romania with Viitorul. Currently, with Rangers, he has a way to go to emulate his dad, Gheorghe, who is considered the greatest Romanian footballer of all time.