Sterling Bank Plc is set to support the creative sector to upscale and monetise the intellectual property of creators in the industry. The Head of Creative and Entertainment Business Financing, Sterling Bank, Lanre Olalusi, disclosed this while addressing participants at the 2021 edition of Legends of Nollywood Awards held in Lagos recently. He said, “We have realised that this sector is crucial to the Nigerian economy because of its significant contribution to the Gross Domestic Product and provision of employment for many Nigerians. We are looking into the sector to see how we can upscale it and to see how we can monetise intellectual property by partnering with artists to create long-term value through their works.” Olalusi also introduced a product of the bank, Specta, to the artists, urging them to take advantage of its unique features. He explained that it was an instant online lending platform that offers consumer loans of up to N5m in five minutes. He added that the lending platform uses proprietary data analytics to process and disburse consumer loans to pre-approved communities in less than five minutes without paperwork and collateral. Also speaking, the Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Clem Agba, said operators in the creative industry were doing great, adding that the Federal Government had recognised their contribution to the growth and development of the country’s economy. He also urged them to take advantage of the N50bn Targeted Credit Facility stimulus package for micro, small and medium enterprises of the Central Bank of Nigeria. Meanwhile, the founder and president of the Legends of Nollywood Awards, Paul Obazele, said the 2021 edition with the theme, ‘Film and National Security’, was aimed at identifying and recognising great men and women who, through their art, ingenuity, foresight and vision laid the solid foundation for the establishment of Nollywood. Awardees at the event include Joke Silvam Olu Jacobs, Richard Mofe-Damijo, Sam Awonyifa, Okoh Aihie, Azu Arinze, Clem Agba and Fatai Ayoola (Chairman, Ajeromi/Ifelodun Local Government Area, Lagos). Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com