There was jubilation in Owerri, the Imo State capital, on Sunday after security operatives led by Abba Kyari of the Inspector-General of Police Intelligence Response Team neutralised the leader of ‘gunmen gang’ in the state, who was popularly known Dragon. The security operatives including soldiers, policemen, and airmen who were on a joint operation, jubilated after the defeat of Dragon on Sunday. Dragon and his gang had attempted to attack the state police command headquarters in Owerri after setting ablaze the country home of the state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Declan Emelumba, according to the police spokesperson in the state, Bala Elkana. Briefing Journalists at the command headquarters, Elkana said that Dragon was an army deserter who took over from Ikonso, the late commander of the military wing of the Indigenous People of Biafra. Elkana said that the team was responsible for the killing of four policemen in Omuma Police Divisional Headquarters and the attack on Orji Police Station in Owerri, recently. The police Spokesperson said four Ak47 riffles stolen from policemen, ammunition, local explosives and charms were recovered from the fallen felonies. The only suspect captured alive, Stanley Osinachi, from Mbieri in the Mbaitoli Local Government Area of the state, said that he was conscripted to attack police and government formations. “He confirmed that Dragon is the leader of the gang in Imo State reporting to their supreme leader Nnamdi Kanu. He stated that they belong to the proscribed IPOB and ESN (Eastern Security Network),” the statement partly read. “A Police Inspector sustained gunshot wounds during the exchange of fire this morning and is currently receiving medical attention. “The Commissioner of Police Imo State Command, CP Abutu Yaro, has commended the gallant effort of the security forces who stood firm and put their lives on the line in this accomplishment and restore sanity to Imo State. The CP used the opportunity to condole with families of Policemen that lost their lives in the hands of these terror gangs over the last few weeks and those that sustained various degrees of injuries,” the statement added.