Medical experts have said that hearing strange voices and seeing unusual things is a symptom of schizophrenia and not ‘madness’, as many Nigerians assume, noting that the medical condition affects a person’s ability to think, feel and behave properly. The experts also stated that a recent study suggested that about 1.86 million people suffer from schizophrenia in Nigeria. The experts were reacting to recent reports that hardship and frustrations are fuelling schizophrenia and other mental health challenges in the country. According to the experts, a recent study by the World Health Organisation has confirmed that schizophrenia is a chronic and severe mental disorder affecting 20 million people worldwide. The health condition, they said, is characterised by distortions in thinking, perception, emotions and language, as well as hallucinations and delusions. Speaking with PUNCH HealthWise, the Director of Pharmacy and Head of Department, Federal Neuro-Psychiatric Hospital in Yaba, Mrs. Olawunmi Peters, disclosed that a recent research has suggested that about 1.86 million people suffer from schizophrenia in Nigeria. She explained that people with schizophrenia require lifelong treatment. “The person with this disorder hears and sees things in clear consciousness, which other people can’t hear or see. In some cases patients may exhibit a deficit of functions such as lack of motivation, reduced speech, social withdrawal, or bluntness of effect,” Peters said. She recalled a particular patient who strongly believed that her first son used a hammer to drive nails into her skull every day. She added that, even in the face of contrary evidence, the woman refused to believe otherwise. “The patient would often be seen laughing to herself for no reason, and at times becomes very angry, telling her friends that her family wanted her dead. At some point, she became restless and suspicious and refused to eat for days. “She also described hearing voices abusing her and discussing her actions; and no matter how much you tried to talk her out of it, she was still experiencing these distressing symptoms,” Peters said. The director noted that a patient suffering from schizophrenia can only become violent when he or she is in the acute phase of the illness. “And this usually happens when the condition remains untreated. Many patients who receive treatment are actually able to function well in society and build careers, especially when they are compliant with their medications and therapy sessions. “Can you imagine how disconcerting it can be when your live experience or reality is doubted by everyone around you and no matter how much you try to explain that you hear these voices, they insist that you are unwell? “Yet, you have no fever, no headache, no body pain, or any other measurable signs. This is the reality of so many schizophrenic patients and we can’t blame them for their condition because they did not choose to have schizophrenia,” she said. To continue reading this story, go to:https//healthwise.punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com