THE Judicial Commission of Inquiry into police brutality in Plateau State has submitted its report to Governor Simon Lalong and awarded N152.8m as general damages to victims. The PUNCH reports that the Judicial Panel of Inquiry was set up by Governor Simon Lalong in October last year to investigate allegations of police brutality and other related killings in the state following the EndSARS protest across the country. Submitting the reports at a dinner to mark the June 12 Democracy Day which held at the Rayfield Government House in Jos on Saturday, the chairman of the panel, Justice Philomena Lot, noted that out of a total of 63 petitions that were tried during their sitting, 11 of them were struck out while 52 were determined. “The panel hit the ground running and worked assiduously being guided by the terms of reference, filling of petitions, trials and all the process involved were done within the time frame of six months,” she stated. The report indicated that there were established evidences of abuse of human rights of the citizens by security agencies owing to their “excesses” in the performance of their jobs. The panel chairman explained that the problem at hand required a holistic approach to solve and recommended the need for retraining of all security agents in the country to ensure respect for the fundamental human rights of the citizens. Justice Lot called on the governor to implement the recommendations and ensure that the victims receive adequate compensation for the injustice suffered. In a remark, Lalong promised that government would look into the report with a view to implementing the aspects that required state intervention while those concerning the Federal Government would be forwarded to it for action. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com