A group, Reggae Republic, has said it plans to partner with communities in Lagos State to plant one million trees around the state within one year. The Executive Director of the group, Mr Kingsley Uranta, who spoke to journalists at a tree-planting event in Gateway Zone Estate, Magodo GRA Phase 1, on Saturday, noted that the event was to mark the World Environment Day. Reggae Republic is a socio-humanitarian organisation formed by reggae enthusiasts that share common interests with the environment. Uranta said, “Right now, we are targeting about 9,000 trees. As a matter of fact, we are going to one million trees, but it’s a gradual process. We have planted some here and we will go to other locations within Lagos to plant trees. It might be a one-year event but we will make sure we attain our target.” He stated that the event was significant to sensitise people to the importance of keeping the environment safe by planting trees and taking care of the environment. The environmentalist further cited the depletion of the ozone layer as a concern, adding that there was a need for people to appreciate the environment, keep it clean, and nurture it, for their interest and the interest of generations unborn. Speaking on the inevitability of urbanisation, he said, “In terms of creating awareness, those of us who believe in preserving the environment need to dig deeper to try to convince everyone, coming up with programmes that will help to sensitise the people. “You cannot stop industrialisation, but let’s also do our best to preserve the environment.” The Chairman, Gateway Zone Community Development Area, Mr Oyebode Ojomu, said the community partnered with Reggae Republic because of a shared passion for the environment. Ojomu said, “The environment makes the man and the man makes the environment. I feel that is one little thing we can do to make our environment available for this campaign and that is exactly what we have done today. Aside from those that grow naturally, most of the trees that we have today were planted by people. “For us to help nature, we need to keep planting trees. In terms of the significance of what we have done today at the leadership level, we are encouraging others to do likewise in their small gardens, environment or communities, so that we can keep nature alive at all times.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com