For many technological organisations, innovation is a top priority. While this is in order, there’s a rising trend that’s placing the role of marketing in the backseat – particularly in the wake of artificial intelligence-driven algorithms and predictive analytics that offer personalised services to consumers across their entire user journey. Although it might seem that the practice of marketing today is executed merely through the tactical functions of acquiring and retaining customers, the full upstream, business growth power of the marketing function – from identifying customers to understanding the consumer’s fundamental drivers and developing the entire go-to-market ecosystem – is an essential element upon which breakthrough innovations are hinged. Consider some examples of when seemingly revolutionary products or services have been launched without the full power of marketing. One immediate example is the development of Google Glass. These smart glasses were a stunning technological advancement — but it ultimately failed. The market outright rejected it when it was launched. Among its missteps, the team behind Google Glass focused more on the idealistic vision of the product and took for granted the market research necessary to figure out two of the most essential questions that need to be answered: who is the Google Glass for and what customer need is it trying to fulfill? By failing to identify the consumer needs that would drive the adoption of the glass, Google had not uncovered a reason for the end-user to purchase it. Besides, the product was initially being sold exclusively to ‘Glass Explorers,’ a group composed mainly of tech geeks and journalists, but notably not the kinds of aspirational role models that mainstream consumers would consider emulating or being influenced by. By failing to create a robust and durable market for the product, Google Glass was discontinued less than two years after its launch. For companies to successfully innovate, strategic marketing must be incorporated into the early-stage innovation development process since marketing helps to achieve the following: Oftentimes, this is true and people have, in fact, been settling for a workaround or poor substitute for so long that they don’t realise an alternative is possible. As an example, before the smartphone, people thought nothing of having to wait to use their computer to access the Internet and use their emails. Anthropological research and needs-based segmentation uncover the most significant holes in people’s lives that new products can fill. So, instead of making assumptions about potential customers and their needs, marketing can help identify entirely new or different customer segments for product innovation teams to consider. One immediate example is how much the adoption of virtual reality has been significantly slower than technology experts originally expected. This is for many reasons but most prominently because the existing headsets are large and clunky – making for a poor experience for mainstream users. With more tech companies increasing their focus on the marketability and end-user experience of VR rather than the content and intrinsic capabilities, more improvements would come forth that would make their products more appealing. Marketing helps answer the question ‘how does this help make life better for me’ through 1) customer research, which tests the appeal of various use cases and often uncovers new ones; 2) insight development, which explores beyond the functional benefits of use to identify the higher-order, more valuable ones; and 3) positioning work and communications framing, which determines how best to convey those uses and benefits to customers compellingly. The more innovative a product is, the bigger the risk of failure. Since marketing can reduce these risks and simultaneously exponentially increase the chances of success in the market, it matters just as much as the innovation in itself and more tech firms need to use this to their advantage in driving sustainable growth. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com