Credit availability will help the economy to grow faster than an economy that is largely driven by cash, the Institute of Credit Administration has said. The President of the Institute and Chairman of the Council, ICA, Mr Andy Ojei, said this in a presentation titled ‘What the governing council say about the institute’, while addressing ICA’s latest inductees. He said, “Needless to remind you that, credit grows the economy more than cash, and it is also our considered opinion that anyone who has ever given, taken, or managed consumer credit, commercial credit, financial and political credit, cooperative and thrift societies, or any person who in the course of performing his or her duties in the past, present or future, and has influenced or is likely to influence the process of business or economic policy.” He added that such person could be “drafting engagement which can or may lead to credit availability, credit accessibility, creditworthiness assessment and recovery, and credit risk management and negotiation; such a person is fit and proper to become a member of the Institute of Credit Administration, can be a fellow, member, or associate of the institute.” According to him, the beauty of credit management was in its expansive nature, as credit management transcended the financial services to include oil and gas, telecommunications, hospitality, entertainment, manufacturing, construction, health, commerce, power, public service and many other industry segments. The chairman noted that ICA had not only become prestigious, but as some put it, an exclusive national body of eminent, accomplished and influential personalities drawn from different public and private sectors of the economy, who are at the top of their career ladders, and in favour of a credit economy. “This definition as to who should be a member of a national body for credit management and administration is the most broadest you can ever find anywhere in the world,” he said. He informed new fellows of the institute that they had automatically become a member of the Institute Board of Fellows. The principal activity of the BOF was essentially to assist, influence and help governments and economic development policy makers with freshly sourced quarterly economic growth roadmap for the good of Nigeria, he said. Ojei noted that the board of fellows comprised of highly accomplished and influential individuals actively involved in managing businesses at the top level. He added, “The board also provides for its members the opportunity for business and professional networking, connecting to influential personalities in public and private sectors, entrepreneurial skills development through learning from others, the prestige of belonging to critical thinkers, the joy of contributing to national development, and assisting or supporting one another to grow your business.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com