A non-governmental organisation, Face of Waziri-Nigeria, has called on the Peoples Democratic Party to address its internal differences and reposition itself ahead of the 2023 general elections. It said the party could not afford to remain in the opposition beyond 2023. The group, comprising PDP stakeholders in the South-West, has urged the party to shun acts of division and disharmony capable of reducing its chance of repositioning itself as a leading political party. The group’s Executive Director, Mr Bukky Adeojo, in a statement titled, ‘Party faithful task PDP ahead of 2023’ also urged members of the PDP in the Diaspora to close ranks. Adeojo, called on the leadership of the party to search for a “northern presidential candidate with pedigree and clout to salvage the country from the sorry state the All Progressives Congress party has led it”. According to him, the party needed a candidate with the capability to rootlessly tackle insecurity, unemployment, poverty, and other worrisome conditions that plague Nigeria and Nigerians. He said, “I’m of the opinion that our great party, PDP, cannot afford to be in the opposition for another four years because of what is happening to the teeming populace of Nigeria. Nigerians are suffering, crying, and wailing that they need another party, an alternative to what they are experiencing today, one that will bring them succour and joy to every home like we used to have in 2015. “For this to happen, the PDP has to put its house in order to occupy this position in 2023. If we don’t get it right internally and resolv  all crises ailing us from within, it may spell doom for our party. “Given my clear view of our national polity in relation with what obtains in our party, I want to propose that the chairmanship position of the party be zoned back to the South so that an acceptable candidate, a well-known and respected crowd pusher who is loved by everybody in the PDP from the North can emerge as our presidential candidate.’’ “The rotational zoning arrangement should be jettisoned, because if we go that route and eventually field a candidate who has no clout, we may go back again to our opposition level. We need to start with our party chairmanship position. Let the chairman that will drive the project in 2023 be a vibrant and energetic and respected mobiliser.” Adeojo added, “If we get it right from our internal democracy, we will get it right in 2023. Our position as an organisation is let us get it right; get a candidate who will be accepted by our teeming members and supporters. Age is but a number. We have seen cases where one could be 70, 80 years old and still do better. “We don’t have to play into the hands of APC again in 2023; let’s field a candidate who has the spread across the six geo-political zones in Nigeria. Let the candidate emerge as our consensus candidate, one that will be accepted by Yoruba, Igbo, Hausa, Fulani, Ijaws, Nupe, Tiv, Idoma, and others; that is the candidate we need. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com