The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), will depart Abuja for Accra, Ghana on Saturday. He will be joining other Heads of State to participate in the 59th Ordinary Session of the ECOWAS Authority of Heads of State and Government. Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, disclosed this on Friday in a statement titled ‘President Buhari to attend ECOWAS Mid-Year Summit in Accra.’ According to the statement, the mid-year statutory ECOWAS meeting will have all members states present except Mali, which was recently suspended from the bloc. It reads, “Former President Goodluck Jonathan of Nigeria, ECOWAS Special Envoy and Mediator to Mali, is expected to present a report on his latest working visit to the West African country to the Summit of the Heads of State. “The Heads of State and Government will also receive a report on ECOWAS institutional reforms, single-currency programmes and a memorandum on the proposed mechanism of rotation of ECOWAS Member States’ candidature to the Chairmanship of the African Union. “A communiqué will be issued at the end of the Summit. “The 59th Ordinary Session of the ECOWAS Heads of State and Government was preceded by the 46th Ordinary Session of the ECOWAS Mediation and Security Council at the Ministerial Level and the 86th Ordinary Session of the ECOWAS Council of Ministers, in Accra, Ghana. “The MSC, comprising of Ministers responsible for defence and foreign affairs from the ECOWAS Member States, considered the security situation in the ECOWAS Region, among other topical issues on the agenda while the 86th Ordinary Session considered a memorandum on the post-Covid-19 industry recovery plan, the 2021 mid-term report of the President of the ECOWAS Commission and the ongoing institutional reforms at ECOWAS, among others.” Buhari’s entourage will include the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffrey Onyema; Minister of State, Foreign Affairs, Zubairu Dada; Minister of Defence, Major General Bashir Magashi (retd.); Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire; Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed; the National Security Adviser, Major General Babagana Monguno (retd); Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele and the Director-General of the National Intelligence Agency, Ahmed Abubakar. The President is expected back in Abuja at the close of the Summit.