The Christian Association of Nigeria on Monday condemned the indiscriminate arrest and killing of Igbo youths by security agencies in the South-East. It also condemned the silence of the governors of the zone in the face of the “atrocities and genocide” the security operatives were committing. A statement by the CAN Chairman in the South-East, Bishop Goddy Okafor, lamented that “no day passes now without one form of report or the other on the arrest and killing of innocent youths by security agents, who claim to be hunting unknown gunmen.” It said, “It now appears that every youth in the South-East now wears the tag of unknown gunmen. This is sad and should not continue. We have had cases of people killed with reckless abandon by these security agencies, including a young girl sent to her early grave at the Imo State Government Gate, another young man murdered for ‘violating check-point rule’, whatever that means, and just recently, a Germany-based Nigerian brought down on his way to the Owerri airport. The list is endless. This is not to talk of tens of youths arrested everyday and kept incommunicado; nobody knows whether they are dead or alive. “It has now become imperative to not only caution the security agencies, but to also ask our governors to speak up. Their silence is not good at all, because they swore to protect their people. “In the North-East where Boko Haram is wreaking havoc every day, killing security forces and bandits kidnapping hundreds of schoolchildren, has every Northern youth been tagged Boko Haram or bandit? Why has the South-East been singled out for this onslaught? We say enough is enough.” CAN urged the South-East governors to begin total implementation of the ban on open-grazing, stressing that “despite the Asaba Declaration, herds of cattle are still grazing openly in every part of the South-East. The governors should stop barking without biting.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com