The Lagos State Agency for Mass Education, has advised the year 2020 vocational trainees to use the skills they have acquired to improve their socio-economic well-being. Speaking at the graduation ceremony which took place at the Rotary Vocational Training Centre, Igbogbo, the permanent secretary, Office of the Special Adviser on Education, Mr Waheed Kasali, said the training, if put into good use would help them to be self-reliant and earn a living. The 248 participants were empowered in different skills including fashion designing, hairdressing, catering, event decoration, phone repairs, and leatherworks to mention afew. “This is another landmark by the governor, the beneficiaries can contribute meaningfully to economy. “This will help end youth restiveness, we have equipped them with the necessary useful skills. I advise them to take advantage of this opportunity, they should try to be on their own, and make use of their skill if you do not make use of your skills it will leave you. They should be responsible and well behaved. With the training, they will be useful to themselves and their community.” Also speaking, Director, AME, Mrs Oluwakemi Kalesanwo, told the participants that they would be employers of labour if they kept at what they do. He also said there would be opportunity for a grant at the Lagos Partnership Trust Fund if they met the requirements. “The world is going entrepreneurial, if they do not get the white-collar job, this is an opportunity. For four years that this agency has been in existence, this is the first time we are having a graduation ceremony. We are also giving gifts to those who performed excellently. It was a nine months training. If they make use of these skills they will not be a devil’s handiwork, by the time they learn a skill, they will not get involved in any vice.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com