The Federal Government on Thursday flagged off the construction of dual carriageway from Kano to Dayi town in Katsina state awarded at the cost of N62.7bn. Speaking at while at the flag off ceremony at Dansudu village in Tofa LGA of the state, the Permanent Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing, Dr Babangida Husaini, said the contract was awarded to CGC Nigeria Ltd. He said the road with a length of 83 kilometres, when completed, would last for 20 years as it was expected to be constructed to standard. “The road is 83 kilometres and it has three bridges and it is expected to be completed within 24 months,” he said. He called on the Kano State Government to pay owners of the farm land and other structures acquired for the project. He also appealed to the communities living along the road to give the contractor the necessary support for the speedy completion of the project. Earlier, the Kano State Governor, Dr Abdullahi Ganduje, described the project as very important because the road links Kano with Katsina, Sokoto, Kebbi and Zamfara states and Niger Republic. “Kano-Gwarzo-Dayi road is a major link to Katsina, Sokoto, Zamfara and Kebbi states, as well as parts of Niger Republic,” he said. He said the rehabilitation of the road would boost social and economic activities across the four states and beyond. Ganduje, who, promised to pay compensation to owners of farmlands and other structures acquired for the project, commended President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), for approving the project. Also in his remark, the senator representing Kano North, Senator Barau Jibrin, said the project was part of his campaign promises. Recall that the road was constructed during the administration of military President, Gen. Ibrahim Babangida and had never witnessed any major rehabilitation since then. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com