Popular actress, Ayo Adesanya, has advised celebrities not to do bizarre things in pursuit of fame. She said doing that could lead to the person’s destruction. In an interview with Saturday Beats, she said, “If one does something bizarre in the name of fame, one is practically looking for one’s destruction. Some people just want to do what no one has done before all because they want to stand out. At times such things could be weird, but it’s just for the ‘show.’ It is only God that can give fame. One probably could just sneeze and God would make one famous.” Adesanya also stated that she sometimes turns down roles for certain reasons. She said, “I turn down lots of movie roles. Sometimes, it could be because of the money. One cannot really be paid what one is worth. But then, you need to pay something so that my soul can release my talent. When one is not well paid, one will do it grudgingly. People just see one on the screen, they don’t want to know if one is well paid or not. “Secondly, I also consider the director when deciding to feature in a movie. If you want me to feature in a movie, I would ask you who the director is. I would also check the director’s track records. If I see what the person has done and I am satisfied, I would probably come on board. If I see what the person has done and I am not satisfied, I have refused some jobs because of that. My instincts sometimes tell me what to do. It is better to drop the script if one knows it won’t work for one.” The actress also stated that actors were sometimes stereotyped because people loved ‘ready-made’ characters. She said, “People love ready-made characters, especially when they know it is something you can do. However, in my own way, I try to make each character different from what I have played before.” The Ogun State-born actress also noted that fans often put pressure on celebrities. She added, “Yes, fans put celebrities under pressure, and it is not only in Nigeria. People have chased hierarchy into the ‘forest’. If you are somebody like me that likes to be respected, you would have to respect yourself as well. We are not perfect; we make mistakes. Every day, when we wake up, we should pray to God not to get into trouble.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com