The family and friends of a 19-year-old 200-level Banking and Finance student at the Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma, Edo State, Emmanuel Nyong, have blamed his death on the alleged poor service of a private hospital in the state, Eseohe Medical Centre, and Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital. Emmanuel, a sickle cell warrior, reportedly had a crisis and was rushed to the medical centre around 5am on April 5, 2021 by one Salvation Erorofioma whom he lived with at a hostel outside the school. Sunday PUNCH learnt that one Bayo Temple, believed to be a doctor at the private hospital, requested a deposit of N28,000 before attending to Emmanuel. It was gathered that Emmanuel was referred to ISTH around 7pm after his condition deteriorated but was reportedly rejected on the grounds that there was no notification from the private hospital. Emmanuel was said to have been taken to another private hospital in Ekpoma where he was confirmed dead on arrival. Erorofioma, a 400-level Accounting student, told our correspondent that they expressed fear ISTH would reject Emmanuel because of the ongoing resident doctors’ strike at the time but Temple, later identified as a 300-level student at the university, assured them that the hospital had been contacted and would accept him. Narrating events that led to Emmanuel’s death, Erorofioma said the teenager would have been taken to a nearby hospital if Temple had not insisted on ISTH. He said, “Around 5am that day, he was shivering and asked me to take him to a hospital. I took him to Eseohe Medical Centre. When we got there, they asked us to get a card before they could attend to him. I met with a ‘doctor’ called Bayo (Temple) who said Emmanuel would be admitted.  I later found out that he is an IT student at the hospital. I learnt he is a 300-level Microbiology student. “He asked us to deposit N28,000 before they could commence treatment. After the payment, they took him into a ward. I asked a doctor if Emmanuel was responding to treatment and he said yes.” He added that some hours after he returned home to rest, he got a call from Emmanuel’s sister, Esther Nyong, that he needed blood transfusion, adding that they quickly raised N30,000 and paid the hospital. Erorofioma said trouble started when a 200-level Anatomy student at the same institution admitted in the same ward as Emmanuel died. He said their complaints to the health workers to evacuate the student’s corpse so Emmanuel, who was already aware of the incident, would not develop shock, initially fell on deaf ears. He stated, “They later took Emmanuel to another room and asked us to buy diapers and some other items. When we came back, Temple told us to look for a car that would take him to Irrua Specialist Hospital. That was around 7pm. “We told him ISTH was on strike but he assured us not to worry. He said consultants at the hospital were not on strike and that one of them had already been contacted about Emmanuel’s case. But when we got there, they didn’t attend to him, saying they did not receive any call from Eseohe Medical Centre. “We then took him to Eromosele Medical Centre in Ekpoma but he died on arrival. Eromosele was close to Eseohe Medical Centre. If Temple had not assured us that ISTH would attend to him, we would have taken him to Eromosele which is close by and he might have survived. When we returned to Eseohe to tell them that ISH said they didn’t get any calls, we met armed policemen there and they didn’t allow us to enter.” The deceased’s elder sister, Esther, a 200-level English and Literary Studies student at the university, said she gave Emmanuel food and he was in a stable condition until some nurses asked her and his friends to leave the ward in the afternoon. She said, “They rushed in another patient, a 200-level student, and we felt that was the real reason they asked us to leave. After a while, a nurse said my brother needed two pints of blood and that one is N15,000. We raised the money within 20 minutes and they asked us to pay for one pint first. “They started giving him the blood around 3pm. Around 6pm, I was told to pay for another pint of blood whereas he had not been given half of the first one. I paid in order not to appear too smart. “Shortly after, the student in my brother’s ward died. We asked them to take his corpse out because the shock could affect Emmanuel. We protested but they didn’t listen to us on time. By the time they moved him to another award, he was already weak. He could no longer walk whereas he walked into the hospital in the morning. He was relatively fine in the afternoon but his eyes were yellow.” Esther also said Temple referred Emmanuel to ISTH despite being reminded that doctors were on strike then, maintaining that his death could have been prevented. She added, “Our parents are trying to be strong. We want justice to be served because if Bayo (Temple) had allowed us to take him to any hospital of our choice, his life could have been saved.” A family friend of the deceased, Augustine Ehimen, said immediately Emmanuel got to the hospital that morning, they suggested to the workers that he needed blood transfusion urgently. He said, “It was in the afternoon they asked us to get two pints of blood. He would have survived if they had given him good treatment and didn’t refer him to ISTH. It was around 8pm we got to ISTH and they rejected him. We were pleading but the hospital said they didn’t get a call from anybody. It was after Emmanuel died that I found out that the same person (Temple) we were calling a doctor is a 300-level MCB (Microbiology) student attending to a sickle cell patient.” When our correspondent contacted Temple on the phone on Wednesday, he confirmed being a student but insisted that neither he nor the hospital was guilty of any wrongdoing. He said, “I am actually a Biochemistry student. What happened was that the patient (Emmanuel) needed to be referred and I called my boss who said we should refer him to ISTH. They asked if they could go to any other hospital and I made them understand that he was referred to ISTH. “ISTH was not fully on strike; the consultants were working and my boss is one of them. The instruction was from my boss, not mine. He said he had spoken to somebody at the hospital.’’ Temple, who also confirmed that he attended to Emmanuel, said his condition was bad when he was brought to the hospital. Asked if he was serving as an IT student at the hospital and whether he was qualified to attend to patients, he said, “If you come to the hospital, you would know more about me. I have been working with the hospital for a while. I am medically-inclined; I am not just a Biochemistry student.” Temple added, “He was an SS. If you want to get full details, I would advise you to come to the hospital and see the Managing Director. He will show you everything you need to know about the case.” However, in a response to a text message sent to him, the Chief Medical Officer, Eseohe Medical Centre, Dr Andrew Eigbedion, absolved his hospital of any wrongdoing, claiming that he got a nod from the ISTH before he made the referral. He said, “The Head of the Accident and Emergency Unit of ISTH was called by my humble self prior to the referral of Nyong Emmanuel and he asked that we send the patient. You may identify and call him for confirmation. Whatever happened over there was not under our control. “When he was presented to us, he was attended to immediately and given the best treatments possible and according to global best practices for his sickle cell disease complications. We had no option but to refer him when his condition continued to deteriorate despite all efforts as he needed intensive care which only the teaching hospital could provide in our local environment.” In his reaction, the Chairman Medical Advisory Committee of the ISTH, Mr Reuben Eifediyi, denied that Emmanuel was rejected, saying that those who brought him to the hospital should have called the head of the emergency unit on the phone. He said, “The patient was not rejected. We don’t reject patients in ISTH. From my investigation, when the people (Emmanuel’s friends and relations) got here, the man (head of the emergency unit) was waiting for them inside. The only thing I didn’t understand is this: a patient was referred to our hospital, people were on strike and they left. “There are emergency numbers on the door in which if there is any problem, they can call or call the doctor they were referred to so that person can receive them. They didn’t do that. It means the patient was not properly referred. He should have been referred as early as possible.” Meanwhile, the National Association of Edo State Students, Ambrose Alli University, has described Emmanuel’s death as “a total waste and ignorance to the value of human life by lapses in hospitals,” noting that it was avoidable. The association in a statement by its President, Lordnis Akhabue, said the hospitals should be liable for such avoidable deaths to serve as deterrence and prevent recurrence. The NAESS leadership and students were said to have held a candle night in honour of the late Emmanuel on April 6 at the University Sports Complex. The association appealed to students to always do due diligence to ascertain the degree of expertise and professionalism in any medical facility before presenting themselves for treatment. The statement read in part, “When the President of NAESS AAU, Comrade Lordnis Akhabue, alongside NAESS Public Relations Officer, Comrade Iguodala Albert, and a senator in the SRC/Legislative arm of the SUG, Comrade Dennis Oyomare, were at the hospital to obtain a detailed account of the incident, it was confirmed to us by a senior administrator at Eseohe hospital that a few hours before Emmanuel’s referral was finalised, another student had died in the same ward of sickle-cell crisis while receiving treatment that day, so they didn’t want to risk losing another patient and immediately made referral arrangements to ISTH, where Emmanuel in a critical state was rejected. “This thought-provoking scenario shows how a seemingly insignificant and lackadaisical attitude to work can have life-threatening consequences. This was a young student, having a whole life ahead of him, but whom we lost to the cold hands of death with the strike action as a major factor.” The association urged the state Governor, Godwin Obaseki, to liaise with the House of Assembly and make a law that would address medical malpractices in hospitals in the state. It added, “Edo State students are important to the state and we are advocating prompt treatment and attention to students in Ambrose Alli University whenever they call in sick. NAESS calls on the management of the university under the leadership of the new Ag Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Benson Osadolor, to intensify the shared rules of engagement and memorandum of understanding in reference to the administrative policy shared between the university and ISTH for the good of the student community.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com