FROM the timetable released by the Lagos State Independent Electoral Commission, the state is billed to hold another local government election on July 24. Political campaigns by political parties for the election that started on April 30 will end on July 22. Equally, the tenure of the incumbents, elected in 2017, will expire in July. But beyond the periodic polls, the capacity of LGs to perform their statutory functions as outlined in the 1999 Constitution is determined by the quality of the leaders at their disposal. Unfortunately, the shenanigans that go for council elections in Nigeria do not allow for the emergence of such capable leaders to drive development at the primary governance level. The result is the rot and decay of infrastructure and the near absence of meaningful governance at the local level across the country. Nigeria runs a three-tiered pseudo-federal governmental system with the LG aptly described as a government at the grassroots. Ideally, LGs should be drivers of sustainable development, social change, civic action, and social mobilisation at the grassroots level. But the experience in Nigeria over the years has not been salutary, essentially because leaders at the local level are not products of the electoral choices of the people but are imposed on them by power brokers. Godfatherism plays a significant part in who is elected to positions. This should not be so. It does not allow for accountability. The electorate can only hold their leaders accountable when they know they are involved in their emergence through a transparent election. Another consequence of the non-credible elections in the country is the low voter turnout. Voters shun the polls because the performance of the government nearest to them leaves much to be desired. For meaningful development to thrive at the grassroots level, the people should, through a transparent democratic process, be responsible for choosing their leaders. Hopefully, this election will serve as another important opportunity for Lagos residents to freely elect their leaders at the forthcoming LG polls. The state should show leadership in bequeathing credible elections at the LG level to other states. There are 20 constitutionally recognised local government areas and 37 state-created and financed Local Council Development Areas in Lagos. The Chairman of LASIEC, Ayotunde Phillips, a former chief judge of the state, expressed the readiness of the commission to ensure a free, fair, and transparent LG election in the state. “The Lagos State Independent Electoral Commission, the body charged with the statutory responsibility of electoral management and administration is committed to conducting a free, fair, credible and inclusive election,” the LASIEC chairman assured the electorate. This is heart-warming. The retired judge stated that to ensure a free and fair exercise, July 31, 2021 was set aside for the chairmanship and councillorship re-runs particularly where the exercise might be declared inconclusive. Experts say the LG system serves as a veritable nursery to nurture political leaders and grow democratic tenets and values. It is believed that democracy is sustained in a polity if it is deeply rooted at the grassroots level. Unfortunately, LG elections in the country, conducted by state-appointed electoral commissions, have over the years been marred by irregularities leading to the ruling party almost always having a field day in every state. Rarely does an opposition party make any appreciable inroads in any state regardless of the electorate’s disenchantment with the performance of the ruling party in the affected state. Indeed, a transparent election is a sine qua non for the sustenance of a functional and enduring democracy. It facilitates the emergence of credible representatives and political leaders who are beholden to the needs and aspirations of the electorate. The Phillips-led LASIEC should therefore see to it that it lives up its pledge to conduct a credible and transparent local government election in Lagos State next month as promised. The state governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, should resolve to bequeath a culture of transparency in LG polling to the cosmopolitan state. However, this may be a tall order if the events that trailed the recently conducted party primaries to select standard bearers at the main election in the state, especially in the ruling All Progressives Congress, are anything to go by. In many centres where the APC held its primaries, there were reported cases of electoral violence, thuggery and intimidation characterising the polls across the entire 377 wards. Lagos, which prides itself as the “centre of excellence” should be a centre of credible elections, as well. If the state is at the forefront of advocating free and fair elections in the country, the LG election presents it an opportunity to walk its talk in electoral integrity. Besides, the government should clear the uncertainty surrounding the claim that the state would not conduct the election since there was no provision for the exercise in the 2021 budget. It was against this backdrop that the chairman of the state Inter-Party Advisory Council, James Adeshina, advised the governor to set machinery in motion for the election’s conduct. This is an opportunity for communities to give serious consideration to who will represent them over the next term. Sanwo-Olu and Phillips should make a difference this time by ensuring a free and fair election. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com