The group managing director of Alpha Mead Group, Mr Femi Akintunde, has stressed the importance of modular healthcare facilities in accessing prompt care. Akintunde, at a briefing in Lagos, said the need to make quality health care accessible to more Nigeria cannot be underestimated. He said the firm had successfully piloted the technology at the General Hospital, Gbagada and the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi-Araba. “The modular healthcare facility is a customised, mobility-enhanced, prefabricated portacabin with detachable modules equipped with clinical and diagnostic equipment that is designed to take quality health care services to the doorstep of all Nigerians. “The whole idea of the modular health care facility is to aggressively drive the penetration of health care facilities in Nigeria by reducing the construction timeline of a health care facility to less than 30 days, saving the time lost to design, construction, equipment installation and commissioning of regular brick and mortar health care facilities, which sometimes run into years,” Akintunde said. The expert noted that the modular healthcare facility at the General Hospital, Gbagada, would be unveiled on Wednesday, saying the facility was designed to leverage technology to connect patients with medical doctors anywhere through its telemedicine facilities. The managing director of Alpha Mead Healthcare and Management Services, Kunle Omidiora, said the product was coming to bridge the widening gap in access to quality health care in Nigeria. He said, “From whatever lens one chooses to view the challenges with the health care sector in Nigeria today, whether financial, personnel, equipment, systems or technologies, the biggest challenge with Nigeria’s health sector is that of access to quality health care”. “This challenge is costing our nation a great deal. For example, a USAID report noted that Nigeria shoulders up to 10 per cent of the global disease burden. The report noted further that this situation is caused by lack of access to quality health care facilities and workers, particularly in the rural areas”. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com