To mark the World Environment Day, the United States consulate under the aegis of the acting US Consul General, Brandon Hudspeth, on Saturday participated in a tree planting initiative with students of St. Savior’s School, Ebute Metta, Lagos. Some of the attendees at the event were General Manager, the Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency, Dr. Dolapo Fasawe; Assistant Director, Lagos State Ministry of Environment, Folasade Adeyoju; and other environmental groups. The event was organised by members of the Young Africa Leaders Initiative under the auspices of the Mandela Washington Fellowship Alumni Association with the support of a public diplomacy grant from the US Consulate General. Hudspeth noted that the tree planting activity underscores the US government’s commitment to supporting initiatives that raised awareness about the importance of protecting the environment. He said, “We are thrilled that our YALI alumni are partnering with St. Savior’s School for today’s tree planting activity. Children have the potential to be powerful agents of change. “By focusing on school-aged children, giving them tools and knowledge to change behaviours, future generations will be better prepared to care for the environment.” He expressed optimism on the involvement of the students in the tree planting activity and acknowledged the positive impact of the YALI alumni in building linkages between different communities and government institutions in Nigeria towards promoting environmental conservation efforts. “Our main goal is to implement a campaign that will involve community members, local organisations, and government institutions to inspire and educate Nigerians on the importance of a clean environment for human health and a strong economy,” Hudspeth said. Fasawe lauded the schoolchildren and their teachers for their commitment toward protecting the environment. Tree planting, she noted, played an essential role in mitigating the impact of climate change. “Planting trees is one of the most important things we can do to contribute to the health of the planet,” she said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com