The International Chamber of Commerce Nigeria has voted to retain key members of its board of directors. The chairman, Babatunde Savage, vice-chairman, Dr Raymond Ihyembe, and the honourary treasurer, Mrs Dorothy Ufot, all received unanimous votes from the members present at its Annual General Meeting on Thursday. In his vote of thanks after the election, Savage appreciated the members of the commission for their trust and confidence in the chamber’s leadership. He said the commissions under the supervision of ICCN had become very important among the committee of nations in the ICC worldwide and were making a sizeable impact in the functions of the global chamber. In his address, Savage stated, “The COVID-19 pandemic disrupted the flow of businesses and supply chains but ended up making them more effective and innovative, deploying products and services through digital channels and technology in a fast-moving world. “On your behalf, I led the first-ever online regional consultative group meeting for Africa in November 2020 which brought together ICC headquarters, representatives, the national committee boards from five countries in Sub-Saharan Africa, and a total of 65 participants from eight countries. “I am delighted to acknowledge the active participation of our members in the global ICC activities through our various commissions and taking advantage of the ICC rules, policies, and guidelines in facilitating the cross border transactions and also keeping to the tenets of international expertise in their various agencies.” Savage commended the performance of the board during the year 2020 for its effectiveness in holding regular meetings and its efficiency in providing leadership oversight and guidance in certain directions and sustainability of acceptance. Savage appreciated the CBN and banks for sponsorship and support for the chamber’s activities the previous year. He said, “Our national committee was greatly recognised at the last world council meeting of ICC early this month for anchoring the chamber’s sub-Saharan regional coordination successfully for the past six years.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com