Former Super Eagles stars say Christian Eriksen’s collapse and revival on Saturday in Copenhagen during Denmark’s Euro 2020 clash against Finland brought back memories of late Super Eagles star, Samuel Okwaraji, who slumped and died on August 12, 1989 in Lagos, The PUNCH reports. Inter Milan forward Eriksen slumped on the pitch after suffering cardiac arrest, with pictures showing the Danish players and his girlfriend in tears as medical staff tried to revive him, causing the suspension of the game in the first half. The 29-year-old’s collapse was similar to what happened to Okwaraji 22 years ago, but while Okwaraji gave up the ghost, Eriksen, whose heart stopped beating, survived. Reacting to both incidents, Okwaraji’s ex-teammate Etim Esin said the fallen footballer could have survived if there were good medical facilities, adding that Eriksen may not have survived if he had slumped in Nigeria. “When I was watching the match and saw Eriksen collapse, the first thing that came to my mind was Okwaraji. I was with him on the field when it happened and I imagined what was going through the minds of his (Eriksen) teammates,” Esin told The PUNCH. “If Eriksen had slumped in Nigeria or any other third world country, he may not have survived because we don’t have good medical facilities and paramedics here. “The incident also reminded me of English footballer Fabrice Muamba; these guys survived it because they live in developed countries. That is why we should also upgrade our medical personnel and personnel in this country. “It’s a big lesson to our league organisers to ensure that our medical facilities are top-notch.” Former Eagles captain, Austin Eguavoen, added, “When Eriksen went down, it brought back Okwaraji’s memories in 1989 because I was close to him when he slumped. “Maybe Okwaraji would have survived if there were good medical facilities, I really can’t say. I honestly don’t know what to say because it was a sad moment. “I was only praying for positive news on Saturday and I was glued to my TV set until they were sure he had been stabilised. I went on my knees and thanked God because I felt really bad when it happened. He urged football authorities globally to upgrade their medical department on a regular basis. “The only advice I have is that every football federation has to learn from this incident. Every league in the world, whether small or big, must try to upgrade in terms of medical facilities because anything like this could happen anytime.” Former Eagles coach Samson Siasia, an ex-teammate of Okwaraji, added, “Watching Eriksen on Saturday did remind me of the Samuel Okwaraji incident.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com