FORMER Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Prof. Charles Soludo, on Wednesday emerged as the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance, for the November 6, Anambra State governorship election. The primary was conducted at the Prof Dora Akunyili Women Development Centre Awka by the Chief Victor Oye-led faction of the party. Soludo, polled 740 votes to defeat three other aspirants, Okwudili Ezenwankwo who scored 41 votes,  Damian Okolo seven votes, and  Ibeh kenechukwu Christopher, four votes. The APGA Chief Returning Officer of the APGA Deacon Samson Olalere, said a total of 812 delegates were billed to participate in the election but 795 votes were accredited. The results were announced by the party’s National Vice Chairman (South West), Samson Olalere. Shortly after the results were announced, the state governor, Willie Obiano, who is the party’s BoT Chairman, congratulated all party members for the peaceful conduct of the primary. Obiano described Soludo’s emergence as a sign the party remains a united family, assuring APGA would win the November 6 poll. Soludo in his speech described his emergence as divine, assuring that his administration would consolidate on Obiano’s achievement to effect good governance in the state. Earlier in Abuja, the Jude Okeke-led faction of APGA announced Soludo’s suspension over alleged anti-party activities. The National Working Committee of the Okeke-led faction announced Soludo’s suspension at a press briefing. The acting National Publicity Secretary of the faction, Ikechukwu Chukwunyere, said the decision to suspend Soludo was taken at an emergency meeting held in Abuja on Tuesday. Chukwunyere said, “The NWC also applauded the members of the party in Anambra State who thronged to the ward offices across the 326 wards in the state, to elect the three-man ward delegates who would elect the governorship candidate of the Party on 1st of July, 2021 in line with the provisions of the Party Constitution, INEC Guidelines and the Electoral Act. “The Party is ready for the July 1 primary election and the winner will lead APGA to victory at the November 6th, 2021 Governorship election.” He dismissed the Oye-led factional governorship primary as “a sham and effort in futility.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com