CFAO Motors, the distributor of Suzuki vehicles in Nigeria and 30 other African countries, has unveiled the S-Presso micro SUV. The company unveiled the vehicle at an event tagged ‘Suzuki is Back’. The event also marked the launch of the company’s latest Smart Link Display Audio. In a statement made available to our correspondent on Tuesday, the company said the product was a follow-up to the brand’s re-introduction in 2019. The statement said, “The ‘Suzuki is back’ event is a platform to showcase its latest upgrade, the SLDA which enables the driver to mirror their phone on the car display screen, place phone calls, use navigation and play music easily among other interesting features. This technology is available in the Dzire, Ciaz, Vitara, Baleno, Ertiga and Swift models.” At the event, the brand ambassador for the new Suzuki, Dr Newton Jibunoh, who is known for his desert expeditions in Suzuki cars was officially introduced to guests at the event in a documentary capturing the story behind his Suzuki choice. Speaking on some of the brand’s activities since 2019, the General Manager, Aissatou Diouf, said, “We came into the Nigerian market with a clear plan to make Japanese cars more accessible to Nigerians. “Amidst the challenges caused by the pandemic, we have continued to improve our value proposition to our customers with the expansion of our after-sales service network across the country, while bringing more Nigerian banks on board as partners for our vehicle financing scheme. “We have just unveiled the S-Presso model, the first micro SUV in Nigeria which will be sold for as low as N5.5m. Indeed, Suzuki is quickly becoming Naija’s ‘way of life’.” The Suzuki models available in Nigeria are city cars: S-presso, Alto, Dzire, Swift, Baleno, Ciaz, and Ertiga. The Off-Road Vehicles/Sports Utility Vehicles are Jimny and Vitara, the statement said.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com