TeamApt, one of Nigeria’s fintech companies, has said it recorded electronic transactions of N1.4tn in May. The company said this while making a presentation on its achievements during a press briefing in Lagos. It also said it was providing financial services for the underserved mass market through its financial access product and its payment gateway infrastructure. The company said it had grown its agency banking platform with a network of over 100,000 agents, adding that it hit a milestone of transactions worth over N1tn ($2.4bn) in March 2021 for the first time. “In May, the value increased to N1.4tn ($3.5bn) with 68 million transactions in volume, and between April 2020 and April 2021, the total value of transactions processed has gone up to $16bn,” it said. Founded in 2015, TeamApt said it started out by building infrastructure for Tier 1 financial institutions, describing this as a testament to its technology prowess. Speaking on the company’s plans to transform financial services in Africa, the Chief Executive Officer and Founder of TeamApt, Mr Tosin Eniolorunda, said, “To achieve our mission of providing financial happiness for all, we started out by building working infrastructure and distributing this in every of Nigeria’s 36 states. “So far, Moniepoint has served over 25 per cent of the 48 million banked Nigerians, previously underserved by the financial system. This is a great feat but we still have a lot of work to do. Many Nigerians are still underserved, and with this pain not exclusive to Nigeria but shared among Africans, we intend to scale into more regions of the continent. “We remain focused on innovating, and we expect that in the future, through Moniepoint, we will reach more people across Africa and build their trust in the financial system and processes. We look forward to empowering our agents with the facilities to offer other financial services directly to customers, beyond deposits and withdrawals.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com