The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Niyi Adebayo, has said Nigeria and other African countries can boost cross-border investments by establishing and strengthening more arbitration institutions in line with international standards. He suggested that more institutions like the Lagos Regional Centre for International Commercial Arbitration, known for international commercial arbitration in Africa, should be established. His Special Adviser, Media, Ifedayo Sayo, disclosed this in a statement issued in Abuja on Thursday, titled ‘Minister calls for establishment of more arbitration institutions’. Adebayo, who spoke at the International Chamber of Commerce Africa Arbitration conference which held virtually on Thursday, emphasised the need to encourage experts in different fields to enrol for training and certifications in arbitration to widen the scope of the practice. He added that this would provide comfort to conflicting parties who would be assured that their cases were handled by professionals with broad experience, and reduce the rising cost of conflict resolutions in terms of fees of arbitrators. Adebayo said, “These steps will broaden the scope of alternative dispute resolution, especially in arbitration and also boost investors’ confidence in doing business with parties from the region. “It will facilitate cross-border investments, especially with the ratification of the African Continental Free Trade Area agreement providing wider market access to 1.2 billion people.” The minister added that the various gaps in the arbitration implementation process in the African business space had adversely affected the inflow of capital and made the practice unpopular in the region. He said that the gaps included lack of awareness, difficulty in enforcing awards, rising cost and misconception that arbitration was exclusive to lawyers. “However, with the region currently being an attractive investment destination, we need to work together with strategic institutions to close these existing gaps and ensure that arbitration is the dispute settlement mechanism of choice in Africa, especially in Nigeria,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com