The final Group B and Group C fixtures of the Euro 2020 will take place this evening in two batches. The Group C matches will be played first. Ukraine will play Austria at the National Arena in Bucharest, Romania, while North Macedonia will play Netherlands at Johan Cruijff Arena, Amsterdam. Both matches will be played at 5 p.m. (WAT). In Group B, Finland will take on Belgium at Gazprom Arena in St. Petersburg, while Russia will slug it out with Denmark at Parken Stadium in Copenhagen, Denmark. Both matches will be played at 7 p.m. (WAT). Ukraine vs Austria (Group C) This match will determine who will finish as runners-up in Group C. Andriy Shevchenko’s Ukraine team currently sits in 2nd position with 3 points while Austria sits in 3rd position with 3 points. A draw here is likely to be enough to send both teams through to the last 16 on four points, with the four best third-placed teams at the tournament also set to progress as per the new Euros format. Ukraine lost 3-2 to Netherlands on matchday 1, but managed a 2-1 triumph over North Macedonia on matchday 2, courtesy of goals from Andriy Yarmolenko and Roman Yaremchuk. Franco Foda’s Austria side, on the other hand, beat North Macedonia 3-1 on matchday 1, thanks to goals from Stefan Lainer, Michael Gregoritsch and Marko Arnautovic. They were, however, beaten 2-0 by Netherlands on matchday 2. Head to head: both teams have only played each other twice in their entire history. Ukraine won the first tie in 2011 and Austria took the win in 2012 with a 3-2 victory. North Macedonia vs Netherlands (Group C) With nothing at stake for the Netherlands, having already won their first two matches — against Ukraine and Austria — and guaranteed the top spot in their group, coach Frank de Boer is expected to rest some of his usual starters. With Igor Angelovski’s North Macedonia side likely already out of the competition, after losing 3-1 to Austria and 2-1 to Ukraine, the southeastern European country can only hope for a consolation win. Head to head: both teams have played each other 4 times in history, resulting in draws and 2 wins for Netherlands. Finland vs Belgium (Group B) Roberto Martinez’s Red Devils sit atop Group B, having beaten Russia 3-0 on matchday 1 and Denmark 2-1 on matchday 2, as goals from Thorgan Hazard and returnee K. De Bruyne overturned the tie with the Danish in Belgium’s favour. As for the Finns, Markku Kanerva’s men will go through to the knockout round with a victory, or a draw if Russia lose to Denmark. Head to head: both teams have faced each other for a total of 11 times in history. Finland won 4, Belgium won 3, and 4 of the matches ended in a draw. Russia vs Denmark (Group B) Denmark’s Euro campaign has been upstaged by Christain Eriksen’s shocking cardiac arrest during their opening game against Finland, a game which Kasper Hjulmand’s Danish side lost by 1-0. The Danish were also beaten 2-1 in their second match against Belgium. They need to beat Russia and hope that Belgium beats Finland if they are to qualify. Stanislav Cherchesov’s Russia will enter the game knowing that a win over Denmark will guarantee them a ticket to the next round of the competition. Head to head: both teams have played against each other only once, ending in a Russia victory.