THE National Population Commission recently indicated its plan to conduct the long-overdue census in 2022. Disturbingly, the body scorned the well-intentioned counsel of the House of Representatives that the exercise should be put off because of the “fragile situation in the country.” The horrific security situation is raising fears of an inaccurate count. The NPC should not embark on a wild goose chase. Census is a huge project that takes many years of organisation and development. Expected to be conducted every 10 years, Nigeria failed to meet its earlier planned 2021 date. Incidentally, it has had a chequered history with the conduct of census even before independence in 1960. It had its first census in 1911 in the colonial era though it was limited to a small part of what became Nigeria. However, it eventually conducted its first nationwide census in 1921; this was headlined by inadequate staffing and boycotts by the public who saw it as a precursor to higher taxes. Subsequent exercises followed the same contentious pattern. Another headcount has been due since 2016 after it conducted the last exercise in 2006, but the country has not been able to do so. The 2016 exercise turned in a hotly criticised and controversial figure of 140 million, which became a subject of litigation. For instance, the results showed that Kano in the North was Nigeria’s most populous state with 9.4 million, followed by Lagos’ 9.0 million in the South. Also, northern states accounted for 75 million people, while the southern states were home to 65 million people, it revealed. Together with national elections, the census has had a polarising effect on the country for decades. The place of accurate and timely data for national economic and development planning cannot be overemphasised. Sadly, this has been the bane of Nigeria’s national development planning. The International Labour Organisation notes that “population censuses have as a primary objective, the enumeration of the population of a country to provide essential information on their spatial distribution, age and sex structure, and other key social and economic characteristics.” Nigeria has sadly, relied on estimates by international development agencies for national planning. A report claimed that lack of funds —the Federal Government could only fund 51 percent of the costs and was relying on donors to fund the remaining 49 percent — prevented the census from holding in 2021, resulting in its rescheduling till next year. Earlier estimated to cost N272 billion, the Chairman of the National Population Commission, Nasir Kwara, had said the exercise would be undertaken “if the necessary logistics were provided.” The regime of Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) was reported to have approved the sum of N10 billion for the recently completed demarcation of the enumeration areas only. But recently at the commencement of fieldwork for the first pre-test for population and housing census, the NPC Federal Commissioner in Gombe State, Abubakar Danburam, said the agency had so far completed demarcation in over 600 local government areas out of the 774 in the country. The NPC insists that once it completes its demarcation and administering of the questionnaires, it will go ahead with the exercise subject to the President’s approval. “It is within the purview of the President; we can’t precisely say this is the date. However, we are embarking on pre-census activities. These are the efforts we are making because the census is absolutely necessary. We are on the verge of completing pre-census, maybe in the next one year. We will suggest a date to Mr. President and we are targeting maybe 2022.” So far, the commission has recently undertaken a range of activities such as the training of the trainers, which took place in April, in Abuja while the zonal training followed from May 31 to June 4, in six centres namely, Abuja, Enugu, Gombe, Katsina, Asaba and Ibadan, covering all the geopolitical zones of the country. Given the precarious state of security across the country, it will amount to wishful thinking for the NPC to undertake the laborious task of conducting any credible census. The country is at war with itself.  Indeed, many non-state actors like Boko Haram terrorists, murderous herdsmen, ransom-seeking kidnappers, bandits and separatist agitators are violently threatening the country’s corporate existence. The government should not put innocent Nigerians in harm’s way in the name of conducting a headcount. With its level of sophistication, the United States 2020 count faced pandemic-related complications and a suite of controversies. The most realistic and sensible option, therefore, is to do away with the queer thought of having a census next year. What should concern the Buhari regime is rebuilding the trust of a large section of citizens in the Nigerian project; restore peace in areas held by the jugular by criminal elements and douse tension in the country to facilitate popular buy-in and participation. Aside from that, the manual approach being adopted by the NPC is becoming anachronistic, error-ridden and susceptible to manipulation. It should therefore give way to new technologies for enumeration and data collection. According to a recent survey by the United Nations, more than 30 countries or areas are providing an option for Internet-based self-enumeration given that “new technologies contribute to improving the completeness, timeliness and quality of census results.” That is the way forward. Census success depends on winning public support. The NPC should be mindful of the observation by the UNdata that “while most countries still conduct their census through field survey, an increasing number of countries are producing census data by using registers either alone or in combination with other data collection mechanisms. We also witness that many countries have adopted new technologies such as mobile devices, geospatial information systems and the Internet in phases of a census operation.” The United Kingdom conducted a census in all its constituent units in 2011. It was the first UK census undertaken completely online via the Internet. The United States turned to aerial imagery and other technologies to reduce the need to send workers door to door and limit temporary hires. Nigeria should work towards adopting such new methods. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com