Amid demonstrations on Saturday in some parts of the country over insecurity, poverty and other challenges as Nigerians marked Democracy Day, Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, said the President, Major Gen Muhammadu Buahri (retd.), and governors elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress are living up to the dreams of Nigeria’s founding fathers. AbdulRazaq, who spoke when he received defectors from the Peoples Democratic Party and other parties, said the economy was growing stronger “amid unprecedented infrastructural development.” He also said “increasing attention” was being given to the security of lives. “Evidently, President Muhammadu Buhari, governors, lawmakers and all officials elected on the platform of APC are clearly living up to the dreams of the founding fathers of our country. The economy is growing stronger amid unprecedented infrastructural development while increasing attention is being paid to the security of lives and property. “Back home in Kwara State, we have remained committed to good governance. We are indeed proud of the impacts that our investments in human capital and infrastructural development are having on the people,” the governor said in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Rafiu Ajakaye. He further said the state government’s social security programmes targeting the poor and vulnerable were glaring. He said the party had been made stronger with its policies that guarantee equal opportunity for all members, adding that about 400,000 new APC members had been registered in the state. AbdulRazaq added, “Security of lives and property remains a top priority while we are putting Kwara on a sound footing to lead the North once again. We have also prioritised youths and women empowerment and inclusion, widening employment opportunities and paying attention to all that can guarantee the brightest future for our younger generation,” “This mass defection to APC today under our leadership is a tonic for all of us in trusted positions to continue to give our best for the collective good of our people.” A former presidential candidate, Gani Galadima, whose party, Allied Congress Party of Nigeria, was deregistered by the Independent National Electoral Commission, said he joined the APC due to Governor AbdulRazaq’s attitude towards governance. He said, “His (AbdulRazaq) commitment is high and his approach to governance is unrivalled in the history of the state. For the first time, we have a governor that works for 24 hours. It is a good legacy. It is enough motivation to attract people to support him. That is the reason why the governor is popular in the state. The third reason is his commitment to infrastructural development.” Former chairman of Association of Local Government of Nigeria (ALGON ) in the state, Joshua Omokanye said: “All the 16 former chairmen under the auspices of the PDP are officially decamping to APC. This also includes former councillors, supervisory councillors and vice-chairmen. We had done it at our various wards in our local governments. We are decamping because we love APC and we love the state governor for what he has been doing since he entered the government.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com