Some Senior Advocates of Nigeria were on Wednesday divided over the statement credited to the Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, calling for a unicameral legislature for the country. They spoke in separate interviews with The PUNCH. Speaking at the Akure Centre of the South-West zonal public hearing on constitution review on Tuesday, the governor also asked that the National Assembly should be on a part-time basis to cut the cost of governance. Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN), in an interview with one of our correspondents, agreed with the call for a unicameral legislature. Ozekhome said, “I cannot fathom what we are doing with 109 Senators and 360 members of the House of Representatives. It is unnecessarily wasteful and corrupts the system. I believe there is a solution. “Make the bicameral National Assembly unicameral by removing the Green Chamber, the House of Representatives. Three Senators are sufficient to represent a state, one each per senatorial district. “Where both Houses are retained, make the members sit on a part-time basis by merely taking allowances per sitting. After all, under the present constitutional arrangement, members of the NASS actually sit for a mere six months in a year; yet, they receive full humongous salaries and other emoluments and perquisites of office. This must stop if we are to make any progress at all.” Another lawyer, Aduche Wokocha, said the problem was more fundamental. According to him, the primary aim should be to return the nation to a federal structure. He said, “With a federal structure and responsibility and capacity lying in the state, the states will be busy trying to do the right thing to take care of themselves. The legislature will not be as attractive as it is now. “We need to change the structure. Every other thing is a side effect of a structure that is encouraging the irresponsibility that we are experiencing now.” But Prof. Epiphany Azinge (SAN), said the unity of the nation among other things would be lost should the unicameral system of legislation be introduced. According to him, the two chambers have been acting as a check on each other, adding that such were still required in the country. He said, “The Constitution has made it clear that we are running a bicameral legislative system, which I do not see anything wrong with. “Which would you scrap for the other? Is it the House of Representatives or the Senate where we have supposed equality in representation? The equality that comes with this resonates well with the people more than the representation in the House of Representatives. “Where do you draw the curtain because when you talk about unicameral legislation, you talking about cutting one-off?  Which one would you drop in order to cut cost? We can still cut cost and have both.” Another lawyer, Ifedayo Adedipe, (SAN) said the country could not afford a bicameral legislature due to its cost. He suggested that the Senate should be increased from three to five representatives from the states of the federation. Similarly, the Chairman, Senate Public Accounts Committee, Senator Matthew Urhoghide, and his colleague, who is representing the Imo North Senatorial District, Frank Ibezim, insisted that the Senate should not be scrapped as it was not the problem of Nigeria. The lawmakers insisted that when looking for ways to cut down the expenses of the Federal Government, Nigerians should beam their searchlight on the executive arm of government, which was controlling too many resources. Urhoghide said, “Nigeria chose the Presidential system of government because we are a heterogeneous country. That is why a sound federal system is the best for Nigeria because each region will control its resources and send a certain percentage to the weak centre. “However, when the centre is now the one sharing resources to the regions or the states, then there would be a problem. We need to control our resources and practice real federalism. “It is not the check and balances that we have in government that is the problem. It is the overbearing load of the governance that we are having.” Ibezim on his part said, “In the National Assembly, all money advanced to senators are being properly retired and audited. “The people of Nigeria know the truth. They should look at the structure critically and determine which arm of government is the problem of Nigeria. Definitely, it is not the Senate.” Meanwhile, a member of the House of Representatives, Mr Bamidele Salam, has called for more drastic cuts by reducing the number of lawmakers after a chamber has been scrapped. Salam, who is representing the Ede-North/Ede-South/Egbedore/Ejigbo Federal Constituency in Osun State, also called for equal cuts across the three tiers of government. The lawmaker said, “If you read my earlier proposition which was widely published on so many platforms about a year ago, I included a provision that no state (governor) must have more than 10 commissioners. No governor should have more than three special advisers. “So, it must go for the whole lot and the federal cabinet should be made up of not more than 12 members; that is, two persons representing a geopolitical zone.” When asked if he was indirectly saying that the executive arm of government should downsize too, Salam said, “What I am saying is that it should be holistic; it should be more far-reaching.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com