Ex-Big Brother Naija Season 5 housemate, TolaniBaj, has said she regrets her intimacy with fellow ex-housemate, Prince. TolaniBaj made this known while speaking on Episode 8 of the Reunion Show, which aired on Friday night. According to her, the intimacy happened because she was ‘feeling’ Prince at the time. She said “I 100 per cent regret it. It was wack, by the way. I really expected more from somebody that ‘carries shoulder’. You should have impressed me, but you didn’t. “Another thing that made me lose respect for Prince was when I caught him kissing Lilo at the back of the bus at the Saturday night party (the all-white finale party), which I felt was very disrespectful because he did it right in front of me. “We were all intoxicated on our way back to the hotel and they sat at the back of the bus while I sat just in front of them. Only for me to look back and they are kissing. I felt disrespected that I had to get out of the bus. I told the driver to stop and I left. “This was a conversation that we never really had. All he kept on saying was Lilo was drunk and he didn’t want to kiss her, but she kissed him. So, from there, I just concluded that this guy is a playboy who would, by all means, do anything to get forward in life. And it’s not necessarily a bad thing. Sometimes you have to be patient. “I regret being in an entanglement with Prince and I am saying that 1000 times over.” TolaniBaj added that she agrees with Dorathy on the fact that Prince is manipulative because he does not speak much and one can never really know what is in his mind. Prince, in response, accused TolaniBaj of disloyalty. He said after he left the house, he was advised against having anything to do with her because she was not loyal to him. He said, “Everyone knows how the whole situation was after Tolani left the house. I was sad that she left and was so confused about the whole thing with her and Neo. But then, Dorathy said I should not conclude yet but wait till I got out of the house and had a conversation with her. “After I got out of the house, a lot of people called me to say how Tolani was not loyal to me. How I had her back in the diary session and how she didn’t have my back. A whole bunch of stuff was going on in my mind at that time. “When I got to the hotel after the house, Tolani walked up to me and kissed me. I didn’t know that someone was filming, and before we knew it, the video was online. Everybody was saying we were back together, but that was me just meeting her for the first time. “My enter team did not want me to have anything to do with Tolani because she wasn’t loyal to me. But I said no, I like this girl and she is my friend.” He added that he was keen on having a conversation with TolaniBaj, even if it meant they would go their separate ways. The next episode of the show would air on Monday next week as the reunion show airs only on Mondays to Fridays. Viewers and lovers can either watch the show on their Television or via Showmax (app or online). Showmax has offered viewers a 14-day free trial on the web to watch the show, after which they would be required to subscribe. It said viewers would pay less if they signed up for three months or more.