A gang of bandits invades a school, kills staff members and students, then fled with a large number of pupils or students, depending on which type of school is attacked. A few hours or days later, they place a call to the abductees’ parents and make a huge ransom demand – running into millions of naira. If the ransom isn’t paid on time or a ‘ridiculous’ amount is negotiated by the captives’ parents or guardians, the criminals get agitated and kill some of the abductees. Eventually, the parents have to comply with the bandits’ demands to secure their children freedom. But perhaps if the government in state where the incident occurs is bothered about the captives’ safety, it wades into the situation and employs a mediator to negotiate with the bandits. The mediator’s tactics are yet unknown. However, they seem to be working as his involvement has always led to many captives’ release. Unfortunately, the cycle continues as the bandits look for another school to attack and another set of schoolchildren or students to kidnap. For far too long, this has been one of the dimensions of insecurity across Nigeria, especially in North-Western states like Kaduna, Zamfara and Katsina. Last month, parents and family members of 13 kidnapped students and three workers of the Greenfield University, Kaduna State, said they were forced to sell properties to raise a ransom of N180m to secure their children’s release. The parents also had to give eight new motorcycles to the bandits. The bandits invaded the university on April 20, killing an official before kidnapping 19 students and three female workers of the institution. Also in Kaduna, bandits on March 11 abducted 39 students of the Federal College of Forestry Mechanisation in Mando, Igabi Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The students were released about two months later. Since December 2020, more than 700 people have been abducted from schools in the North-West in a rash of kidnappings for ransom in the volatile region. Several schools have also closed in many states in the region. The bad occurrence is, however, not limited to the North-West anymore because the kidnapping of students has also been recorded in some institutions in the Southern region. In fact, in March, the Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, said his administration had begun the construction of fences in public schools across the state as part of the proactive ways to forestall the abduction of students. According to experts, while this could be one of the ways to protect students and teachers in schools, there are also other technological equipment that schools and governments can procure to forestall the incidence of kidnapping. Hence, schools in particular can go for the following gadgets to tackle the incessant kidnapping of students across the country: Security fencing Yes, just as Fayemi said, schools should consider fencing when it comes to protecting lives. A school safety fence will add a valuable asset to the school, protect the students, and increase the pride students, staff, and the wider community feel for the school. According to experts at Profence, Australia, good security fencing allows clear surveillance of those entering and leaving the grounds. It’s important to choose fencing design and materials wisely to achieve the desired effectiveness, durability, and cost. A good fence will have forced entry resistance, resistance to climbing, visual surveillance lines, and durability. Panic buttons According to experts at the Tech Advocate, the United States, teachers can wear small panic buttons on their belts or pockets during the day. If some trouble or danger arises, the teacher can push the button and an alert is sent to both the authorities and the school administrators. The administrators will then make everyone in the building aware of the threat while first responders make their way to the school. Different brands of panic buttons can double as microphones or voice amplification systems. Radios and related tools Radios should be high priorities for daily operations as well as for use during emergencies. While inexpensive, off-the-shelf radios may be tempting, they are inadequate for school use. Generally speaking, digital radios have clearer sound at a much higher price. Analog radios have more static at a much lower price. At range limits, analog radios can experience excessive static, but digital radios shut down entirely. Alarms Burglary alarms can be triggered by door or window entry, acoustic or vibration-based glass breakage or passive infra-red detection, which detects temperature changes if someone enters a building. These can be augmented with cameras or microphones that record and transmit images and sounds to hard drives, monitoring stations or websites. Schools can also install annunciators. Similar to burglar alarms triggered by door or window entry, annunciators make noise at the point of intrusion and alert staff members at a monitoring station that an emergency door has been opened. If surveillance cameras are used, staff can instantly view the activity. Surveillance cameras Knowing where to place closed circuit television cameras in a school requires some careful planning, especially where budgets are concerned. When you are restricted to a set number of CCTV cameras, you’ll want to consider the type of camera you choose to install. For example, wide-angle lens cameras allow you to see a broader field of view covering more potential blind spots but restrict the depth of which you can see details clearly. Speaking recently, a security expert, Dr Ona Ekhomu, advised the government at the federal and state levels to privatise the security of schools in the North-West to prevent incessant abduction of schoolchildren by bandits. “Clearly, governments don’t have the security personnel resources to protect all schools. So they should award contracts for school security to private security companies who have the manpower and technology to protect schools and prevent abductions,” he said. Also, a lawyer and New Voices Fellow at the Aspen Institute, Nkasi Wodu, said to improve the situation, Nigeria needed to intensify the Safe Schools Initiative established in 2014 in response to the Chibok schoolgirls’ abduction. “Although armed groups have proliferated since its launch, the initiative can be tweaked to meet current realities. Better coordination between state and federal governments would also improve the response to banditry and general insecurity. “Part of this strategy should involve the use of early warning and early response systems involving the Federal Government, state governments, vigilantes, and community leaders. Without decisive action, abductions and the instability they cause will continue to plague Nigeria, holding back the futures of children and the country they will inherit,” Wodu wrote on the Council on Foreign Relations blog.     ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com