The Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria has appointed Mr Adesina Adedayo as the new president of the institute, following the end of the tenure of Dame Gladys Olajumoke. The institute also elected new officers to steer its affairs for the next two years at its 29th annual general meeting. According to the institute, Adedayo is a specialist in risks management and economic model building. He obtained his B.Sc. degree in accounting from the Nasarawa State University, Keffi in 2017. He is a fellow of both the CITN and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria. The new president is also a member of the Business Recovery and Insolvency Practitioners Association of Nigeria and a Certiﬁed Fraud Examiner. He started his working career with the Federal Audit Department (now known as Office of the Auditor General of the Federation) in 1984. In the course of his work career, he attended the Federal Treasury Academy Course 1 in 1988 and subsequently the Course 2 in 1991 when he took the first position at the entrance examination in which staff of all the Ministries, Departments and Agencies of the Federal Government participated. He acquired his professional experience from the Once of the Auditor General for the Federation (1984-1993) and the ﬁrms of AdetonaIsichei& Co (Chartered Accountants) in 1993 (which later became known as Akintola Williams Deloitte) and was there until May 2002 when he left Akintola Williams Deloitte to start his tax and audit practice. He practices taxation and accounting under the auspices of his two firms known as AIA Professionals (Chartered Tax Practitioners) and Adesina Adedayo& Co. (Chartered Accountants). At the meeting, Samuel Olusholaagbeluyi was elected as the vice president; Innocent Chinyereohagwa as the deputy vice president; and Simon Nwanmaghyikato, as honorary treasurer. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com