The Ogun State Commissioner for Trade, Industry and Investments, Mrs Kikelomo Longe, speaks to DAYO ADENUBI about what the state government is doing to enhance the performance of businesses in the state It has been two years of the present administration in Ogun State. As the Commissioner for Industry, Trade and Investment, how would describe the journey so far? We have numerous achievements but I will like to touch on four aspects. First is the area of improving the ease of doing business in the state. We have automated the processing of Business Premises Permit, making it easier for business owners from the comfort of their offices or homes to go online, process their business premises permit and pay right there. There has been a lot of automation going on and we have also created additional zonal offices distributed across the 20 local government areas, empowered them with the required mobility and equipment, making it easier for us to deliver our services, get closer to the residents of the state, and boost our revenue generation. For Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises, the Dapo Abiodun-led administration reactivated the Ogun State Agricultural and Multipurpose Credit Agency that had been inactive for eight years to start giving out loans to MSMEs especially in the agriculture sector. Last week, we gave out loans including funding for tractors, tricycles, motorcycles. We are preparing the MSME’s to access the Central Bank of Nigeria’s Anchor Borrowers’ Scheme which has been successful. When we identified that the MSME’s had been missing out on government procurements and contracts, we organised training and awareness sessions in which we recognised the factors holding them back and guided them to benefit from the space. We organised an MSME business clinic in 2019, the first of many, where we diagnosed their business problems and proffered solutions. We brought in the Nigerian Agency for Food and Drugs Administration and Control, the Corporate Affairs Commission, microfinance banks and other financial institutions, and at the end of the session, over 550 registered their businesses and a number of them got their NAFDAC approval which had been a setback. In recognition of our work in 2019, the Association of Small Business Owners awarded my ministry the SME Most Supportive State Ministry in 2019. Also, the governor won the award as the SME Most Supportive State Governor. Some of the investors are showing concerns about multiple taxations from your government and are also wondering what they are getting for paying taxes. What are you doing to make sure they get value for their money? On multiple taxation, we have deliberately worked on harmonising the taxes, levies, payments to the government. We set up a committee that looked into it and a lot of progress has been made. The results of that will be announced very soon. What we plan to do is to publish the rates of taxes or levies due to the government and it will be set up as such that anything not in the publication will not be payable. This digitalisation of processes will allow increased transparency and simplification. I will keep stressing the EoDB as businesses need to have the infrastructure to operate efficiently. This administration has constructed 270.88 kilometres since its inception and rehabilitated 322.63km of roads – from Sagamu-Abeokuta road, Igbesa road, and the recent flagging off of the Atan-Agbara road. These are major roads leading to industries and so investors are quite happy with the development. We are also improving the water supply as the Arakanga dam in Abeokuta has been massively overhauled. There is also a partnership on ground with the Ministry of Health on improving primary healthcare centres which the employees of these enterprises will require. The state government recently kicked off the construction of some roads and inaugurated some roads within the Agbara axis. Are you considering other industrial hubs? When will the projects be launched? We have defined Economic Development Clusters across the state. It is part of the state governor’s plan to develop all parts of the state. The Ijebu-Ode-Epe axis is opening up and we are planning EDC’s along the axis that will have different components such as an MSME park, residential sections and sections for other businesses. We have the special agro-processing zone coming up that is backed by the African Development Bank. We also have a cargo airport under construction that will have around it various businesses in synergy with its operations. These are catalysts for the economic development of the state. We want to make the state an attractive investment choice location. What are the plans of the Ogun State government on supporting local industries on power supply? At the inception of this administration, we initiated a power audit across the entire state to know what we have and what should be built. As planned, the audit will guide the development of the projects in each of our EDCs. What Agbara needs will be different from what Ogun-Waterside needs. Ijebu-Ode’s will be different from the others. The audit will have solutions tailored to each cluster. We are planning to optimise the extensive gas pipeline infrastructure in the state and work with private sector partners, the Eko Electricity Distribution Company and the Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company to ensure we create solutions for the areas they cover. We are actively working towards improving the attractiveness of the state as an investment destination. How are you ensuring that your ministry and Business Membership Organisations in the state are on the same table concerning economic development? We have been partnering with BMOs and having training sessions and concurrent meetings with them. Earlier this week, we held a stakeholder session with the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria to share with them the state government’s plans for power and to get their views and their expectations. Because we supported them, I received an award for excellence from the Ogun State Chamber of Mines, Industry and Agriculture in April for the successful Gateway International Trade Fair held in the same month. This is a statement on the positive relationship we have with the BMO’s and they are satisfied with our approach to work, plans and achievements and they are committed to a sustainable partnership with the state government to achieve our objectives. We have established Ogun Investment Promotion and Facilitation Agency. We seek to market the state to investors, address their needs as they settle down. We have assisted companies who need more land for expansion and facilitated government intervention to address infrastructure challenges such as roads, power, markets. During the heated period of the COVID-19 pandemic, we partnered with the Ministry of Health to issue and enforce COVID-19 protocols throughout the state. Tell us about the state government’s plan for the forthcoming investment summit? What incentives are you providing to attract investors? On incentives, as I said earlier, we are focusing on improving the EoDB in the state. The investment summit will be held virtually and we are welcoming both local and foreign investors to see the exhibition of investment opportunities across different sectors within Ogun. We are working hard to improve the baseline infrastructure critical for the attraction of investments. Once this is achieved, investors will only have to focus on purchasing equipment and getting to work, developing products that generate profit for them. Reducing the cost of production is an important mandate of our administration and building the infrastructure is needed to achieve that. Ogun State has the highest number of tertiary institutions in Nigeria producing a lot of graduates yearly. What is your ministry doing about engaging these graduates coming into the labour market? Graduates have two potential pathways to key into, which are entrepreneurship and working a full-time job. We already have entrepreneurship awareness and training programmes to develop MSMEs. Graduates can take advantage of this to follow their passion and build businesses they would love to run, make money from and contribute to the state’s economy. We are partnering with private companies who are specialists in providing these trainings and have also set up systems for them to acquire seed funding for their ideas, whether through credit or equity or other means. Graduates can also seek to work in a formal environment. I am pleased to inform you that Ogun State has a job portal where these graduates can upload their CVs and other necessary documents. The state government is also encouraging potential employers to source their human capital from there. Where my ministry comes in is increasing the number of industries operating in the state as this would ensure there are enough job opportunities for graduates. Industries will always need employees, and so we are supporting them with strategies to grow. We are empowering their suppliers and service providers. A company will need a catering company, a cleaning company, residential accommodation for its staff. People will have to provide these services. These are the ways opportunities will be multiplied and help to create more prosperity for the residents of Ogun State. We would like to know what are your targets for the coming two years, how you are measuring progress and the key performance indicators you are looking at. Over the next two years, we will be consolidating the development of the special agro-processing zone. It is closely related to the cargo airport and the aerotropolis around it. Already, the runway has been built and there has been significant progress in the construction. We also want to complete at least six EDCs across the state which would catalyse development. Governor Dapo Abiodun is very optimistic about these projects and especially MSMEs, who are critical to the economy of the state. We want to improve the quality of their training and increase access to capital and market for more entrepreneurs. We want to help them get more market share in terms of exportation in partnership with the Nigerian Export Promotion Council where they will be trained on packaging, design, value addition, get the necessary certifications to make them acceptable to standards in the international market and begin earning foreign exchange. We are very deliberate on positioning the state in terms of EoDB at a sub-national level. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com