A professor of Theology and Social Ethics, Prof. Yusuf Turaki, on Tuesday alleged that the Federal Government knew the kidnappers and bandits terrorising Nigerians over the years. Turaki, a Middle Belt leader, also alleged that the governmentpaid them to the detriment of the Nigerian nation. Turaki spoke at a one-day Peace and Security Summit at the ECWA Good news Church, Narayi in Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo was Special Guest at the event, but was represented by the Chaplain, Aso Villa, Pastor Joseph Oluseyi Malomo. Osinbajo who likened Nigeria’s socio-economic problems to that of a woman in a labour room, said after much pains, there would  be celebration by the people, when they eventually overcome hardship. He said, “We must keep faith and see the problems we are going through as bread. God will take us to the promise land of a great nation with great value.” The Middle Belt leader, who served as the keynote speaker, said violence had taken over the country. Turaki disagreed with politicians who were blaming killings in Middle Belt on farmers, herders clash, saying it was  a deceptive narratives to motives of what he called a repetition of Sokoto jihadists war. He said, “These are Foreign Fulani who have been allowed to enter Nigeria so that they could help their brothers in Nigeria to kill innocent citizens and wreck havoc on our ancestral lands. “These Fulani occupy the lands, carrying AK47, killing people, destroying communities in the middle belt and other parts of the country.” “And the government knows them, government pays them to destroy ancestral lands. Politicians know the bandits that enter Nigeria, but they will not tell us. “Nigeria is well blessed with intelligent people but they cannot up till today solve insecurity in the country. Something terrible has befallen our country. God, open the mouths of the people, let them speak the truth and die for the truth.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com