The leadership of the House of Representatives on Tuesday met with the Special Ad Hoc Committee on Petroleum Industry Bill behind closed doors. Also, the Southern Caucus of the House met at the Transcorp Hilton. The Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, said the Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, Melee Kyari, would meet with members of the House on Wednesday (today). Gbajabiamila had announced the meetings at the plenary on Tuesday. The Speaker said he would lead the principal officers to the meeting with the committee on PIB at Conference Room 028, while members from the southern part of the country would meet at the five-star hotel. Kyari would meet the House at the same Room 028 at 4pm on Wednesday. The Northern Caucus of the House had begun a two-day retreat on Monday, where stakeholders from the region harmonised their positions on the bill. Meanwhile, Gbajabiamila said the House must pass the 2021 Supplementary Appropriation Bill, the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill and the PIB within the next two weeks. While the House only resumed from a two-week mid-term break on Tuesday, the Speaker said the lawmakers only had two weeks to pass the critical bills before embarking on their two-month annual recess. He said, “It is an important piece of legislation, and we need to pass these two before we leave for the summer break. There is so much to do. It is going to be a heavy load, including the supplementary budget. Two weeks is a very short time, but we must do this work; we must do it thoroughly.” In a related development, the Senate will on Thursday debate the report of its joint committees on petroleum (Upstream, Downstream and Gas) on the Petroleum Industry Bill. The Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, disclosed this on Tuesday after the Chairman of the panel, Senator Mohammed Sabo (Jigawa South West), submitted the committees’ report. Lawan, after the report had been laid, told lawmakers that it would be considered on Thursday. Lawan said, “Let me use the opportunity to thank our joint committees for working hard, selflessly and patriotically to produce the report on the Petroleum Industry Bill. “This report, a copy each, must be made available to each and every Senator today, this afternoon. We will be considering the report on Thursday. “So, we have today, tomorrow until the beginning of Thursday to look at the report, so that when we consider it, we will be doing so on the basis of what we have been able to read from this very important report.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com