First City Monument Bank has said it will continue to champion, execute and support initiatives that will enhance the ecosystem, as well as tackle some of the adverse effects of climate change and other challenges facing the environment. The bank said this in a statement to commemorate the World Environment Day. According to the bank, a cleaner and more sustainable environment would create better world for present and future generations. The bank disclosed that it organised various educational programmes, in partnership with the Nigeria Conservation Foundation and other stakeholders as part of its commitment towards its corporate social responsibility in keeping the environment sustainable. It said that it had mobilised staff, hundreds of students and young Nigerians nationwide to plant trees in the six geopolitical zones of the country, as part of its ‘Go Green’ initiative. The tree planting exercise, which also formed part of the bank’s employee volunteering scheme, would help restore the balance of the ecosystem and improve the environment, it stated. The Group Head, Corporate Affairs, Mr Diran Olojo, stated that these interventions were part of the bank’s progressive journey and contribution towards making the world a better place. He said, “In Nigeria, the devastating effects of climate change are being felt through land degradation, deforestation, drought, flood, high temperature, migration, low agricultural output, unemployment, among other, negative effects. “As a responsible and futuristic corporate organisation, our business decisions and operations will continue to take into consideration factors that could negatively impact the environment, society and hinder long-term growth prospects. “Our work in the renewable energy sector and advocacy on issues relating to the climate and environment amplify this commitment.” The statement said the bank had executed credit enhancement agreements worth N20.9bn to support renewable and energy efficient projects, with plans to finance projects that would deliver over 10,000 new solar-powered electricity connections to households and businesses across various communities by the end of 2021. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com