Pan-Arewa socio-political organisations, under the aegis the Coalition of Northern Groups, on Sunday faulted the comment by the Ohanaeze Ndigbo against the Igbo secession plot for an independent Republic of Biafra, describing it as a hypocritical attempt to fool the nation. While reminding Ohanaeze that the Igbo “can only fool some people sometimes, but cannot fool all the people all the time,” the CNG said it was “quite aware of the renewed antics of the protégés of those that assassinated our forefathers, their foot soldiers from other parts of the South and cronies from the North which we are ready to resist and expose.” The CNG reminded Ohanaeze and all Igbo leaders that, “Nigerians are not in a hurry to forget their betrayal of the trust and accommodation accorded them despite the atrocities they caused in 1966.” The spokesperson for the CNG, Abdul-Azeez Suleiman, in a statement titled, ‘Biafra: CNG tackles Ohanaeze, says North can’t be fooled again,’ added, “It is no longer in doubt that the current violent agitations and disturbances over Biafra is clearly an agenda with a wholesome backing from every component of the Igbo community in Nigeria and in the Diaspora, including Ohanaeze. “It is therefore, the peak of hypocrisy for the Ohanaeze at this point, to attempt to distance itself from the ongoing violence and crime against humanity, whereas it has been silent all the while northerners living in the South-East are daily harassed, attacked, murdered in cold blood, and their properties destroyed. “Instructively, the same Ohanaeze was conspiratorially silent when Ahmed Gulak, a prominent Northern figure was assassinated on the streets of Imo by Igbo-backed militia of the IPOB and ESN.” The CNG added that hundreds of northerners had suffered in the hands of the “increasingly emboldened Igbo terrorists since 2017, though largely deliberately under-reported by the traditionally hostile section of the Southern Nigerian media whose intrinsic bias manifests whenever matters that affect the North are reported or commented on.” The CNG added, “The North will no longer remain passive under such deliberate and sustained attacks on its people, nor be disposed any longer to relating with the Igbo as federating partners and shall take every measure to realize Biafra so that the Igbo will leave and peace would reign again.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com