The Lagos State Health Facility Monitoring and Accreditation Agency has shut down the Intensive Care Unit of Premier Specialists’ Medical Centre, Victoria Island, over the death of a chef, Peju Ugboma. PUNCH Metro had reported that Peju died after undergoing a botched surgery for fibroid related ailment at the hospital. However, the pastry chef suffered internal bleeding after the surgery, which made her condition to deteriorate and she was later admitted to the intensive care unit of the hospital, where she was placed on a respirator. The family, who accused the hospital of sedating her intravenously, said the management of Premier Specialists’ Medical Centre moved Peju to Evercare Hospital in Lekki Phase 1 for CT scan and dialysis, but it was discovered that she did not have a pulse and emergency CPR was performed, but she was later pronounced dead. After the news of her death went viral, family and friends called for justice, while HEFAMAA, on its Twitter handle, @HEFAMAA_LASG, stated that an order had been given for a probe into the circumstances surrounding the death. However, HEFAMAA on Thursday said it had to shut the hospital’s ICU to protect members of the public pending the outcome of the investigation by the agency. The agency, in a statement by its Head of Public Affairs, Muyideen Uthman, stated that though the hospital was registered and had adequate equipment and personnel, it needed to improve on its coordination. The statement read in part, “The Lagos State Government, through its Health Facility Monitoring and Accreditation Agency, has shut down the Intensive Care Unit of Premier Specialists’ Medical Centre temporarily. “The Executive Secretary of the agency, Dr Abiola Idowu, discloses that the agency took the crucial decision for public protection pending the outcome of the ongoing investigation by the agency. “The agency has informed the hospital to ensure that its staff follow the protocols established at the various units and also delegate responsibilities appropriately to facilitate the prompt implementation of necessary actions. “The agency has inspected the hospital twice, met with the family of late Mrs Ugboma and has also commenced an investigation on Evercare Hospital, Lekki, where the deceased was subsequently referred to.” The agency’s secretary, according to the statement, added that investigation was ongoing till facts would be established after which the final report would be forwarded to the state Commissioner for Health for appropriate action. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com