Olayemi Ogundele is a 25-year-old chef living with type 1 diabetes. He shares his challenges of stigmatisation and misconception by people with poor knowledge of the disease, as well as his struggle to cope with the daily cost of treating the life-long condition. AMARACHI OKEH reports Perhaps Olayemi Ogundele would never have bothered to know what diabetes is until he suddenly started eating a lot without gaining weight; rather he was losing weight. Added to that, he was always thirsty, easily tired and started urinating a lot. This happened to him in 2015. Later that year, he was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes at 19 years of age. After his diagnosis, he was placed on insulin for life. Looking back five years later, Ogundele said he had thought his life would go back to normal but didn’t even realise that people close to him would no longer look at him the same way again. According to WebMD, an online medical site, type 1 diabetes is an autoimmune disease. In type 1 diabetes, the immune system destroys insulin-making cells in the pancreas. The condition is usually diagnosed in children and young people but can also develop in adults. The website describes insulin as a hormone that helps the body cells use glucose for energy. The body gets glucose from the food eaten, while insulin allows the glucose to pass from the blood into the body’s cells. However, in type 1 diabetes, the body is unable to produce insulin due to the autoimmune destruction of the beta cells in the pancreas. This, physicians say, can cause many life-threatening complications like heart and blood vessel disease, nerve damage, kidney damage, eye damage, foot damage, various skin and mouth conditions, as well as pregnancy complications. According to the International Diabetes Foundation, type 1 diabetes accounts for only 10 percent of people living with diabetes worldwide. The IDF, while noting that the cause of the lifelong sickness is not known, assures that the condition can be managed. Speaking with PUNCH HealthWise on what has changed in his life as a person living with type 1 diabetes, Ogundele, now 25, said he has been affected psychologically due to the stigmatisation and misconception people have, especially as it relates to working or interacting with a person living with the condition. He recalled that as a football player back in school, he was prevented from joining the football team and told to go take care of himself. He narrates his experience: “I was initially part of the school football team.Then we were given a questionnaire to fill and one question asked if we had a chronic illness.Since I was already part of the football team, I answered yes. “The coach told me that I couldn’t join them anymore, that I had to go and take care of myself and that he was sorry. He also narrates how he was told that he couldn’t join the navy because of the chronic disease. “They said I couldn’t join them because of the training and all the physically strenuous activities that are involved in it.” Asked if certain jobs or activities could be considered risky for people living with type 1 diabetes, Senior Registrar of Internal Medicine at the Federal Medical Centre, Asaba, Dr.AsoreOghenevwarhe said, “For diabetes in general, jobs that require much exercise – like sportsmen – exercise tends to cause hypoglycaemia for them and tends to crash the sugar. “So, while engaging in stressful or sporting exercises, you need to actually tell them to adjust their dosage of drugs. “The sportsmen, while engaging in such exercise, they need to be aware that they need to readjust their medication. “Also, we don’t want them to do any kind of job that would cause trauma to them because they have a poor propensity for injury to heal. “So, imagine them being labourers that can get injured while working. We usually try to encourage them not to engage in such activities as much as they can. “We certainly don’t want them to engage in jobs that would cause injury to them,” the doctor said. Dr.Oghenevwarhe explained that “the problem with type 1 diabetes patients is that their body does not produce insulin; so they need to be on insulin. However, if a non-diabetic person takes insulin injection, it would crash the person’s sugar level and it may cause the person to go unconscious.” To continue reading this story, go to:  https//healthwise.punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com