SUPPORTERS of former Plateau State Governor, Jonah Jang and those of former Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Jerimiah Useni, have disagreed over the recent dissolution of the Plateau State executive committee of the Peoples Democratic Party by the party’s National Working Committee. The Punch gathered, in Jos, on Sunday, that the two groups are divided over whether or not the repeat of the state congress ordered by the NWC included the party executive at the Ward and Local Government levels. Recall that the PDP NWC last week dissolved the Chris Hassan-led state executive committee and ordered for a fresh congress to elect new party leaders for the state. The NWC equally appointed an 11-member State Caretaker Committee under the leadership of Senator Tunde Ogbeha, to oversee the affairs of the party pending the emergence of new elected officials within ninety days However, trouble started after a chairmanship aspirant, Bitrus Kaze, believed to be Useni’s loyalist, posted an article hailing the decision of the NWC. Kaze said “The constitution of the Senator Tunde Ogbeha-led State Caretaker Committee is a welcomed development. It is consistent with the recommendations of the Gov Ortom-led Committee in their interaction with the Plateau PDP critical Stakeholders in August 2020. “They recommended that credible party faithful who are neutral be appointed as State Caretaker Committee to look into all grievances and litigations affecting the wards, LGAs and the State chapter of the party to pave the way for a valid State congress.” He also wrote that until the injustice perpetrated in the wards and local government levels was addressed, the struggle was ‘far from over’. However, Jang’s loyalists in a statement jointly signed by a former legal Adviser of the party, Binchen Jangtur and a former State Publicity Secretary of the PDP, John Akans, Kaze and Useni’s loyalists to stop taking party members for granted. The statement read in part, “The Hon Chris Hassan led State Executive Committee willingly gave itself to be dissolved for fresh state congresses to be held if that will bring peace to the hearts of the SEC aspirants. “We want to reiterate and make it very clear, that the ward/ LGA congresses were not part of the resolution adopted at the last Abuja meeting.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com