Berkley Science Magnet School, Ogudu, Lagos, has advised educators to help develop the spelling prowess of their learners. Speaking at the inter-school spelling bee competition on Thursday, which took place at the school’s hall, Director of Programmes, Orglearning Consult, Mr Samson Osagiede, explained that if pupils could get their spellings right at primary school, it would eradicate the inability of today’s graduates in expressing themselves correctly in writing. “We decided that there is need to bring  schools together in a competitive atmosphere to encourage students in spelling. If you miss that aspect of education you will find it hard to get it back in the higher institution. Writing is a veritable tool in writing good essays. Most graduates find it difficult to write simple sentence without spelling errors because they missed it in primary school.” Osagiede also advised that it was not only the English teacher who should teach learners how to spell, but every subject teacher should ensure learners could spell their topics and other words being taught. “We pay attention to spellings in our schools, for instance, if you want to teach algebra in mathematics, all the pupils should be able to spell it correctly. Every teacher should pay attention to spelling; they must ensure the child is not writing carelessly, if they know spelling in primary school, they will excel easily in secondary school.” The spelling bee which was in two categories for lower and upper primary schools had three schools; Karis School Magodo, De Beautiful Beginnings, Magodo and St. Patrick Primary School, Yaba participated in the spelling bee. Similarly, the school’s Principal, Mrs Tonia Momoh, explained that Berkley pupils did not participate in the spelling bee so as to give room for fairness. “We want to project an image of fairness. It is ethical we do not participate. We want to as much as possible be fair to all participating schools. We always have our own in-house spelling bee where our students participate yearly. This is basically for other schools.” In the lower primary school category, Aranimi Orimolade was the winner, while in the senior primary category,  Obanimi Orimolade was the winner. The two winners are students of Karis School, Magodo. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com