Eighteen out of the invited Super Eagles players have arrived their camp, Hilton Garden Inn, Wiener Neustadt Osterreich Austria in Vienna, Austria ahead of their international friendly game against Cameroon, The PUNCH reports. The three-time African champions will take on the Indomitable Lions at Stadion Weiner Neustadt, Austria in the doubleheader clash with the first fixture schedule for Friday, June 4 while the second game will be played on June 8. The much-anticipated clash between the two continental arch-rivals, which suffered an initial scare after 11 Eagles players withdrew from the game due to medical reasons, is expected to go on as planned. Among the players confirmed to have arrived at the camp are Watford centre-back William Troost-Ekong and Leicester City duo Kelechi Iheanacho and Wilfred Ndidi. Other England-based stars that have arrived in Austria are Alex Iwobi and Oghenekaro Etebo. Goalkeepers Maduka Okoye, Francis Uzoho and John Noble, as well as Shehu Abdullahi, Chidozie Awaziem, Jamilu Collins, Valentine Ozonwafor, Anayo Iwuala, Abraham Marcus, Moses Simon, Terem Moffi, Peter Olayinka and Samson Tijani complete the 18 players in camp. However, captain Ahmed Musa and strikers Paul Onuachu and Simy Nwankwo are expected to join their teammates before the tie. According to the Nigeria Football Federation, the friendlies were arranged as part the Eagles’ preparations for the upcoming World Cup qualifiers against Liberia and Cape Verde in August and September. Gernot Rohr initially selected a 31-man squad, before reducing the list of players to 23 last week. But Kenneth Omeruo, Sadiq Umar, Frank Onyeka, Victor Osimhen, Semi Ajayi, Kevin Akpoguma, Zaidu Sanusi, Moses Simon, Ola Aina and Tyrone Ebuehi all pulled out of the game citing medical reasons. Following the withdrawal of the 11 players, there were doubts over the continuity of the friendly as the number of expected players dwindled. Franco-German Rohr will hope to have his injured players returned for another arranged friendly for the Eagles against Mexico on July 4. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com