•They can drop patients and leave, says CMD Some relatives of patients including visitors to the Lagos State Teaching Hospital have picked holes in the new parking policy introduced by the hospital authorities, JANET OGUNDEPO writes It was raining when Mr Jonathan Ayotide (not real name) drove to the car pay point in the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Ikeja. He handed over his ticket to the cashier who billed him N700 as the parking charge for spending five hours on the hospital premises. He later waited till the over 30 minutes rain subsided before taking his car from the park. By the time he got to the gate, he was asked to return to the pay point and pay an extra fee because the payment time recorded on his ticket was not when he finally left the premises. Ticketing policy Ayotide is one of the recent visitors to LASUTH with frustrating experiences regarding a new parking policy by the hospital management. Every visitor to the facility is charged hourly for as long as their vehicle stays on the hospital premises. Every month, Mr Yemisi Obadina accompanies one of his relatives to see a consultant at the hospital. On their appointment in May, he discovered that he had to part with a fee of N700 for parking his car on the premises for five hours. Speaking with our correspondent, Obadina said that on entering the premises, he was given a parking ticket notice and a ticket that recorded his time of entry. He said, “The first time in almost a year of visit, on entering the premises, I was given a note at the gate that I will be billed N200 per hour for the initial hour and N100 for each subsequent hour. I got there around 8am and didn’t leave until 1pm because one cannot determine when one leaves when one enters an hospital not to talk of a general hospital in Nigeria.’’ A cab-hailing driver, Mr Benjamin Adekunle, also said he paid N200 for parking on the hospital premises for over an hour. He stated that he went to visit a friend admitted into the hospital on that day. Adekunle noted that he was not informed about the payment for parking when he visited the hospital a few days before then. “I went to LASUTH when they started the park ticket thing. I went to pay a visit to someone in the hospital. Meanwhile, I had visited LASUTH a few days before the start date and I wasn’t informed about this. It caught me unawares and I was told that this is how things are done there now. “On that day, when I got inside, I was given a ticket and when I was about to leave, I drove to the exit gate but I was asked to return to the Pay Point. That was the last time I visited the place. I wasn’t expecting the extra expense. I went there on a visit and I was pissed off. It’s not fair. What if a visitor comes with an emergency case,” Adekunle said. He further stated that he was charged N200 for parking his car for more than an hour on the hospital premises and that the process didn’t accommodate a cashless policy. Adekunle added, “To make matters worse, they don’t have a point of sale. I didn’t have cash on me that day. For such a policy, there should be a need for a point of sale or a system to withdraw cash. It was quite painful that day. There was nothing I could do. I complied and left.” Another visitor to the facility who spoke on condition of anonymity with our correspondent described the parking policy as illegal and inconsiderate of outpatients. The visitor said, “For me, in the first place, the procedure is illegal. How can one come to a hospital and pay for parking? Is someone who is sick supposed to trek to a hospital? Commercial vehicles are not allowed into the premises so how are people supposed to come into the facility? It is illegal but you know our system is in Nigeria. There is traffic on the road leading to the gate (Exit point). By the time I join the traffic, chances are that the time given could have elapsed and I would be expected to pay extra money. On what basis?” Our correspondent observed a situation at the PayPoint when one of the health workers (name withheld) who was away on study leave for over two years, just resumed and came to activate her card. When she was told her bill, she responded, “Ni kini? (What?) I’ll pay N500 as a worker in this place?” The attendant at the PayPoint told her that all the workers were with access cards to be presented at the exit point failure of which they would pay the parking fee. The health worker explained to the attendant that she was not aware of the policy. “I didn’t know that because I have been away on a course for two years and I just resumed. Before now, I only knew that I needed to have a sticker. When I resumed today, I was given this (the card and ticket from the gate) and I had to ask what I needed to do,” the lady said. The attendant explained the process members of staff have to take to obtain the access card, but insisted that the health worker pay the N500 parking fee. The lady added, “This thing was not like this about three or four weeks ago.” Our correspondent also noticed that the ticket was collected at the gate without a copy given to the visitor. At the onset of COVID-19 pandemic, a code was given to drivers from the entry point and requested at the exit point. However, a Pay Parking policy introduced on May 1, 2021, replaced the code system and tally collection. When Adekunle visited the hospital before May, he said that a code system was what was used. He stated, “Before the introduction of the ticket, a code was given at the gate like, ‘Gold, Mary, Rainbow, Mercy.’ That will be a passage for you when going out, so you’ll tell them the code when you get to the exit gate to make sure you are not driving out someone else’s car.” Adekunle further said that the policy would affect private car drivers in rendering services to students and non-mobile staff members in the teaching hospital. “This is an unnecessary fee that will make private ride drivers cancel clients’ requests into the hospital. They won’t want to pick up the students whenever they order a ride,’’ he said. Tickets as indirect taxation Some visitors to LASUTH described the policy as indirect taxation. A visitor to the hospital who earlier spoke to our correspondent on condition of anonymity said most of those visiting the hospital are either civil servants or work in private firms, yet had to pay the imposed fee for parking their cars on the facility’s premises. The visitor said, “It is indirect taxation because most people who use the facility are government workers or maybe privately employed people with a meagre salary. They pay tax and now you’re taxing them again. How many times are they supposed to do that? That’s fraud.” On his part, Obadina also said that the policy encouraged indirect taxation. Relatives should drop patients and leave, says CMD When our correspondent contacted Balosh Integrated Services in charge of the payment policy via the telephone displayed on the payment booth, the receiver requested a WhatsApp chat on the enquiry. The chats seeking reason for the park and pay policy had yet been replied as of the time of filing this report and subsequent calls were not answered. However, the Chief Medical Director of LASUTH, Prof. Tokunbo Fabanwo, when reacting to the issue, advised family members to drop their sick relations at the hospital and leave the facility. He said, “They will keep their car (in the parking lot) to get money. As soon as they get money, they can take their car out since the patient has already been dropped at the emergency room. There is no problem with that. For the first hour, there is no payment required, so if it is to just drop a patient and go away, maybe a hired car, they don’t need to pay a dime. “Relatives of patients on admission don’t have to stay over. They should drop the patients on admission and go home. We have nurses who look after patients; we do not require that any relation should stay over with their patients. In any case, if they are worried about car parking, they can take their cars away and board a cab back to the hospital to stay with their patient.” Fabanwo identified four reasons for introducing the policy. He stated that it was to curb the excesses of Computer Village traders who park their cars on the hospital premises, end car dealers’ use of the premises as parking lot, curtail incessant car theft and vandalism, including clamping down on air travellers who park cars on the hospital premises  for days while away. He said, “This system came into effect when the parking lot in LASUTH became chaotic. LASUTH became a car dumping ground for Computer Village traders who come early in the morning to park cars on the hospital premises and carry out their trade till about 10 to 11pm. The Computer Village traders constitute 80 per cent of this problem. Also, people travelling to local destinations park cars here and go to the airport to board a plane, travel for days and keep their car on the premises free of charge under tight security. They return to take their vehicles and go. “Three, car dealers bring unregistered vehicles into the premises and go out to scout for customers who come to check out the vehicles for purchase. Four, there was also car vandalism and theft during the day and night. People come in, use a master key to open vehicles and drive out easily without anyone checking. Those are the four reasons for this initiative.” He further said that the policy was one of the recommendations of the committee set up to find solutions to the identified problems. “We set up a high-powered committee and one of their recommendations was that we should have an ordered parking system whereby people who come in and out are identified. We got in touch with those who did that for Shoprite, which is a reputable company. They conducted a survey and gave us a proposal. The recommendations of the committee passed through various government offices for approval. “We ran the proposal through the Ministry of Justice, the Office of the Public Procurement, through the Public Partnership office and the governing board of LASUTH before we finally got executive approval,’’ he stated. The CMD added that the policy didn’t include members of staff required to enter premises with access cards. Fabanwo noted, “Members of staff in LASUTH and the College of Medicine who have cars have been given access cards, so they don’t pay. Members of staff who don’t come to work with the access cards will have to pay. As the CMD, I bring my access card to work every day. The day I forget my access card, I will pay. Public officials, who have business here, maybe from Alausa, don’t have to pay. They will be given a gate pass from the administrative section when they are about to leave. Medical representatives and journalists from reputable organisations who come in for genuine business do not have to pay. When they come to the administrative office, they are given a gate pass.” Responding to the claim that the policy amounted to indirect taxation and exploitation, Fabanwo said that visitors who bring their relatives into the facility should spend only an hour or less with them and leave. He said, “I am running an enterprise facing a problem and I need to solve it. It has nothing to do with the tax they pay to Lagos State. I am put here because they believe that I can solve problems and that I am capable of using due process. I am not supposed to be a dictator; I did not come here one day and began to ask people to start paying for parking. The management went through due process.  It is not indirect taxation. If they say it is a public place, then how public is public? We are only public for patients. We are not public for patients’ relations. If you bring your car and you want to park here, we are a hospital and we are to admit patients. We are not to store cars.” Asked about where revenue generated from the park and pay policy goes, the CMD said that it was not a revenue-generating venture for the hospital. He added, “Pay parking is not a revenue-generating venture for LASUTH. LASUTH is not expected to make a kobo from it. The money goes to the operators who have spent money to put the machines in place. Yes, they will give us a percentage of their profit at the end of the year. It is not that we will not get a percentage at the end of the year but that is not the primary purpose for it.” Social commentators’ views In his comment on the matter, a lawyer and rights activist, Dr Kayode Ajulo, described the LASUTH policy as illegal. He said, “Public hospitals are not profit-making organisations. They are to provide succour for the people; it is part of the people’s privileges as a taxpayer. The act that set up the hospital never initiated that, so whatever they are doing is illegal. The money used to build the hospital is not from a money-making venture. It is not an investment. It is taxpayers’ money that was used to build the hospital. If private hospitals do that, then that’s understandable. But for hospitals, established as part of the constitutional responsibilities of the government in terms of welfare to the citizens to now be charging, then something is wrong. Sometimes ago, the same thing happened in some areas in Abuja, we went to court and the court stopped them.” Also, a strategy and transformation expert, Mr Ayo Bankole Akintujoye, said it was wrong to charge patients’ relatives who parked vehicles on the premises of a public hospital. Akintujoye said, “All of these things amount to indirect taxes. I don’t know of any public hospital anywhere in the world where citizens pay to have their cars parked even at private teaching hospitals, Hopkins and others. I am not aware of anyone where one has to pay for parking. It is a hospital, there might be an emergency. People might not have money to pay at the time. Apart from the fact that people are being taxed, they also need to look at its medical implication. Why would they be charging people for parking in a hospital that belongs to the government? It is a multiple layer of ridiculousness.” He noted that most times the government was too obsessed with making money without critically examining the underlying implications of its action. He added, “The economy is poor, two, people are already taxed on multiple levels. Three, it is a hospital car park where people can come in with emergency cases. Most people coming into the hospital will be doing so in grief so why will they be paying again for coming with vehicles? I think LUTH has a car park that visitors pay to park their cars, while there are other ones free for visitors coming into the hospital.’’ He suggested measures to replace the problems which the policy was meant to address. Akintujoye said, “Most times in this country, we don’t want to go the critical thinking or hard route so when we want to curb problems, we take the easiest option available. I don’t think those people in Computer Village who they accused of parking their vehicles at the hospital premises will stop. They probably will still park there and that will not solve the rowdy parking problem. It is now a case of making money from it. “A unique tagging system can be made that allows the monitoring of visitors based on where they are visiting in the hospital premises. This will be issued at the gate and there will be a way of confirming at the exit point if the visitor truly goes to the tagged location upon entry. There will be penalties for defaulters. That’s the way to do it instead of charging everyone. That will be totally inhumane.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com