A human rights activist based in Ebonyi State, Anyigor Methuselah, has petitioned the acting Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, over an alleged threat to his life by some political associates of a council chairman in the state. According to him, the threat and maltreatment was as a result of his criticism of the Ebonyi State Government on Facebook. The petition, written by his lawyer, Sampson Ekigbo, which was also sent to the Department of State Services and the National Human Rights Commission, was obtained by journalists on Thursday in Abuja. The petitioner claimed that he was abducted by two persons on May 22, 2020, after making ATM transactions at the Afikpo Road branch of Access Bank in Abakaliki. He called on security agencies to arrest and prosecute his abductors. The petition read, “It is our brief sir, that our client, Comrade Anyigor Methuselah, is a good governance advocate and a social critic based in Ebonyi State, who uses his Facebook account to demand good governance by constructively analyzing the policies and programmes of the government, while proffering solutions to some of the identified anti-human policies. “That our client was abducted by the above mentioned persons on May 22, 2020, after making ATM transactions at the Afikpo Road Branch of Access Bank, Abakaliki. “That our client was forcefully dragged inside a tinted Sienna car by the above named bandits and cultists and coerced to lie face down on the floor of the Sienna. “That our client was taken to the house of a politician at Abakaliki, who ordered them to deal with our client and go after other persons already pencilled down for abduction. “That the above named persons at gunpoint collected N65,000 only, being the money our client went to Access Bank to withdraw, upon battering him in the process. “That the hoodlums had in their possession weapons ranging from long guns, suspected to be AK 47, pump actions and a small gun, axes, a jackknife, cutlasses and other weapons. “That our client was forced at gunpoint to give them access to his Facebook account, wherein he was coerced to change his profile picture to that of the (council chairman) and another to that of the state government. “That the boys loyal to the executive chairman told our client that they had the instructions of their boss to kill him should he fail to stop attacking her government and that of the governor.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com