Lead Pastor of Lagos-based church, Elevation Church, Godman Akinlabi, has said the enemy of Nigeria is not microblogging site Twitter but hunger, poverty, corrupt people, kidnappers, bandits, amongst others. Akinlabi also urged the Federal Government to reverse its suspension of Twitter in the country and use the opportunity to reconnect with Nigerian youths. He made this known on Sunday in a statement he personally signed which was titled, ‘Statement By The Elevation Church On The FG Suspension Of Twitter In Nigeria’. It partly read, “As an institution that has steadfastly promoted the need for positive self-leadership based on service to God and community, we appeal to the Federal Government to duly consider its decision and seize this opportunity to reconnect with Nigerian youths, in particular, to demonstrate thoughtful caring leadership, and to revive confidence in a government that truly listens to the yearnings of the Nigerians. “The spate of violence and kidnappings across the nation, and the fragile state of our economy continues to be a major concern for all. “Our real enemies are hunger, poverty, corruption and iniquitous men and women who profit from the misery of others and whose personal interests frustrate our collective aspirations. “Our most potent arsenals should be deployed against these adversaries. God bless Nigeria.” Last week, the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), suspended Twitter operations in the country citing the “persistent use of the platform for activities that are capable of undermining Nigeria’s corporate existence”. The Buhari regime has since come under fire for what many termed as a restriction of the right of expression. The international community including the European Union, the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, amongst others have since knocked the Buhari regime for the action but the Federal Government has been unyielding in its stance insisting that the sovereignty of the West African nation must be respected by the tech giant in San Francisco.