There was confusion as the Peoples Democratic Party in Anambra State held parallel primary elections on Saturday. The Chukwudi Umeaba-led faction held its primary at the Paul University playground in Awka and elected Senator Ugochukwu Uba as the party’s candidate for the November 6 governorship poll. According to the returning officer, Chief Obidi Ebede, Uba defeated his closest rival, Godwin Ezeemo with 275 against 114 votes. Ebede said there were 665 accredited delegates. On the other hand, the faction led by Ndubuisi Nwobu held its primary at the Prof Dora Akunyili Women Development Centre and had yet to announce the winner of the primary as of the time of filing this report. The Secretary of the Anambra State Governorship Primary Electoral Committee of the PDP and Deputy Governor of Edo State, Philip Shaibu, who oversaw the exercise, said the committee was determined to conduct a free, fair and acceptable primary. “At the moment, less than 200 out of the about 300 super delegates have filed out for accreditation according to their local government areas of origin,” he said. Shaibu said three aspirants dropped their ambition and pledged loyalty to the party. The aspirants included Dr Tony Nwoye and Emeka Etiaba (SAN). “I am determined to conduct a free, fair and credible primary and that was why we engaged ourselves inside to make sure that all the fears of the aspirants were sorted out. At the end of the day, we all agreed to go ahead,” Shaibu added. We’ll comply with court ruling on Anambra PDP exco –INEC The Independent National Electoral Commission has in a letter to the PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, drawn the party’s attention to a court judgement in favour of the Umeaba-led PDP and asked the party to comply with the court’s judgement. The letter was signed by the secretary to the commission, Rose Oriaran-Anthony. INEC stressed that it would comply with the judgment of a High Court in Abuja dismissing the sacking of the executives of the Anambra State PDP. The court had on June 9, 2021, dismissed the applications filed by the national office of the PDP and two others. But INEC, in a letter addressed to Secondus dated June 25, said it had received the High Court judgement dismissing the sacking of the Anambra PDP executives. INEC said, “The commission has been served with the judgement of the High Court of the FCT delivered on June 9, 2021, in suit No. FCT/HC/774/2012 between Samuel Anyakorah vs PDP & ors regarding the Anambra State PDP executives. “Consequent upon the above, the commission wishes to intimate you on the need to comply with the same. Accept the assurance of the commission’s high regards, please.” Justice Olukayode Adeniyi of a High Court in Maitama, Abuja had in a ruling held that the three applicants – the PDP, Chief Ndubuisi Nwobu and Uchenna Obiora – failed to make out a case to warrant the grant of their application that sought to stay the judgment pending the determination of the appeal. He held that they did not show that the non-staying of the judgment would either render their appeals nugatory or make it impossible for the party to conduct its primary for the forthcoming governorship election. The judge voided all the activities engaged in by the party since June 9 when the judgment was delivered, including the elections it conducted on June 10 and 11 to elect a three-man ad hoc ward delegate that would vote at the primary of the PDP scheduled for June 26, 2021. Justice Adeniyi said the statement made on June 9 by the state Publicity Secretary of the PDP Anambra in which he disparaged the court and its judgment was an affront to the court, adding that they did not expect a court they had insulted to grant them indulgence. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com