During the launch of the Rivers Cassava Processing Company, last week, Godwin Emefiele, governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, said that Nigeria imports over $580 million worth of cassava by-products annually.  Meanwhile, according to the Food and Agriculture Organisation, our country’s cassava production is by far the largest in the world. This means that we are throwing away precious money, while outsourcing services that we could comfortably carry out in our backyard. This revelation is indeed very alarming. Emefiele said what he said as a way to encourage us to have faith in the new cassava redemption. In his mind, the newly constructed Rivers cassava company would help the country to reduce its reliance on imports of cassava by-products that serve as key inputs in the production of food and industrial items in several factories.  However, for those who are aware that we have gone through this road before, the CBN governor’s message could be a source of sorrow instead of joy. It is very sad that we are at the same spot we were exactly 20 years ago, when former President Olusegun Obasanjo conceived the idea of cassava-farming revolution. In 2001, Obasanjo inaugurated the Presidential Committee on Cassava Export Promotion with a mandate to earn $5billion annually from 150 million metric tons of the crop. I can still remember the refreshing green energy that the national project injected into the citizenry, at that time. Springing up here and there were cassava-based cooperatives. There were even specialised tabloids promoting this envisaged cassava revolution. Everybody keyed in to the programme.  I, being interested in green revolution, made it a point of duty, to write articles that promoted the national call. I remember interviewing the then Director General of the National Biotechnology Development Agency, Dr Chukwuemeka Omaliko, and coming out with a front-page story which analysed NABDA’s drive towards providing mass-produced cassava stems through “tissue culture” genetic engineering. Everybody in every section of the polity was doing something to key in to Obasanjo’s vision. But now, 20 years down the line, we have yet to actualise the vision. There are no cassava pyramids, and no processed cassava products, anywhere. Instead of exporting the products, we have turned the table on its head. We now import, to the whopping tune of $580 million. What a ridiculous irony. Obasanjo envisioned our exporting $5 billion worth of cassava annually, we are now slowly marching towards importing at such a magnitude. This is why Nigeria is fiscally bleeding. Our forex is dedicated to importing all sorts. Most of the cassava we produce in the farms go for food, and the rest get wasted for lack of storage facilities. Other serious countries with less cassava in their farms have overtaken us. Take Thailand, for instance. The Asian country has developed a robust cassava industry driven by innovative enhancement of the entire cassava value chain. This was how it became the largest exporter of cassava chips and pellets to China and India, and also dominated the European market with cassava products in livestock fees, sweeteners, organic acid, alcohols, modified starch, sugar alcohols, pearls and tapioca. In my thinking, instead of gloating over the inauguration of one cassava processing plant, the government should face Nigerians with some home truths. We are going round and round, like an old merry-go-round. We should set up a think-tank to work with the Central Bank to ascertain how to reset the cassava sub-sector. It is not enough to pump in money, and manipulate forex to encourage the new friends-of-government. We need to understand how the entire structure is wired, and how it would outlive this present regime. If not, what befell us before shall happen again. During the Obasanjo’s era, those who designed the cassava-export programme did not think through the aspect of cassava processing. And, to compound the problems, the next government threw away the project altogether. There was no seamless transition as an ingrained national agricultural idea – which it deserved to be. That is why we lost more than 10 years before this present regime suddenly discovered that cassava export is sapping our forex. But it is almost too late in the day. The world is now in a totally new global food production paradigm. So, we need to think beyond just cassava-processing, from the get go. The newly inaugurated cassava processing plant makes cassava flour. What plans are on the ground to scale up the operation, and diversify to other by-products, especially the ones that require chemical integration? What are the incentives for the farmers to continue looking towards these new off-takers? Would this new window create inflation in the cassava sub-sector? Would it cause a cassava glut? What linkages are needed to make the project a globally sustainable initiative? What happened during Obasanjo’s era was that as the government set the ball rolling, many Nigerian farmers – including fresh graduates – rushed into cassava farming. But when business eventually became unprofitable because the government did not institute mop-up strategies for the now-glutted cassava market, most farmers abandoned the business. That was exactly when the cassava processing component would have been introduced as a local mop-up sink for local cassava producers who were now stuck with their commodities. Now that the Nigerian government is looking towards a new cassava revolution, I wish to sound a warning that the sub-sector is faced with an emerging reality that is critical to this vision. It is called the Third Food Regime. Our government must integrate this component in their programme; if not we shall once again be overtaken by the world. Recently, scholars have argued that – following a first food regime based upon colonial trade in bulk commodities like wheat and sugar, and a second food regime typified by industrial agriculture and manufactured foods – there is an emerging third food regime. This new regime is one that is lead by global corporations that are profiting from the re-organisation of agri-food chains. The delivery of fresh foods is one manifestation; another is the sale, by supermarkets, of ready-meals and other own-brand products. It is a regime in which strategies for profit capture are built around expediting internationally co-ordinated flows of production, commodities and capital. Philip McMichael gives a more incisive description by explaining that the third food regime is highlighted by the increasing globalisation of production and consumption markets reflected, in part, by corporations which are “geared to the global or regional markets that are replacing national markets”. This is why I am of the opinion that we must look beyond cassava processing. The digitalisation of food production is a reality, and Nigeria is a target market. Perhaps, the rundown of the entities that set up the Rivers Cassava Processing Company could give us a better picture of the future we face. According to news reports, the Rivers State Government is “working with Shell Petroleum Development Corporation, the Dutch Embassy Investment Nigeria Limited and their technical partners, in setting up the integrated facility”. Meanwhile, we must bear in mind the other causes of the failure of our agricultural sector, according to Christian Love in the treatise, “How agricultural policies has (sic) morphed in Nigeria.” They are: Non-interaction among stakeholders; delay, embezzlement, misappropriation and lack of fund to pursue specific policy to an expected end; inadequate virile technical advisory/extension services; lack/inadequate monitoring and evaluation of projects; weak agricultural policy; role conflict between different projects; short duration of policies/programmes; emphasis on mainly food and animal production; and inconsistency/incompatibility of regional policies/programmes with the national policies/programmes. Therefore, we must make hay while the sun shines. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com