The outgoing Director General of the National Emergency Management Agency, AVM Muhammadu Muhammed (retd.) has handed over the agency’s air ambulance to the new DG, Ahmed Habib and also thanked the staff and management for their support during his tenure. The air ambulance had undergone extensive repairs and was now operational. In his speech, Muhammed said, “I forever cherish the moments we shared, working 24/7 to bring succour to the distressed. For sure, it will be a strange feeling to wake up and realise I no longer have meetings, through the nights and weekends, but I will quickly adjust and make good use of what I learned here.” “Remember, you are all Nigerians willing to serve our country with all our hearts and minds.  I am asking you to hold fast to that faith. Please do not do injustice to yourselves.  Be your brothers’ keeper and together you will take NEMA to greater heights.” He added that the year 2020 was a significant year as the world was ravaged by COVID-19 pandemic which led to a complete global lockdown of activities. Muhammed stated, “Nigeria was not exempted from the negative impact of this pandemic. Amidst this global crisis, the nation was not spared from other devastating incidents ranging from flooding, fire, insurgency, banditry, kidnapping, road accidents, pipeline/gas explosions, herders/farmers clashes, communal clashes, cattle rustling, building collapse, the disruptive #EndSARS protests and so on.’’ According to him, notwithstanding the challenges, the NEMA collaborated with research institutions such as the Centres for Disaster Risk Management and Development Studies and partnered with the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control to carry out public awareness campaigns against the spread of COVID-19. “As a strategic national ägency dealing with national man-made or natural disruptions, NEMA ensured that requisite assistance was given to persons affected by spiraling armed banditry, fire and rainstorm/windstorm devastations to ameliorate their sufferings. A fortnight ago, NEMA inducted comprehensive Disaster Risk Reduction equipment for search and rescue donated by the Japanese Government. These include nine units of rescue vehicles with rescue equipment, four units of mobile water purifier systems with vehicles,’’ he stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com