“The journey started smoothly until after about two kilometres on water when the boat began to shake and suddenly, there was a loud bang and it split into two. “I struggled to rescue others because I know how to swim but the water volume overwhelmed me. Luckily, I was able to swim to safety with the aid of the cover of a food flask belonging to a food vendor. “I am still traumatised anytime I recall the cries of passengers who drowned when the boat capsized,” said Mallam Shehu Warrah, one of the survivors of the ill-fated boat in Yobe State that killed over 100 passengers. Warra and other passengers envisaged a safe trip when the boat loaded with goods took off from Loko Minna in Niger State. But sadly, only a few of the passengers were alive to tell their stories. The boat capsized in Tsohuwan Labata village, Ngaski Local Government Area of Kebbi State. The Sarkin Samari of Warra, Adamu Warra, who spoke with journalists about the boat accident, said, “Almost every household has its member in the ill- fated boat. The boat carrying over 150 people capsized in the deepest part of River Niger.” Speaking in the same vein, Secretary, Nigerian Red Cross, Kebbi State branch, Ibrahim Ngaski, said, “Though the number of passengers on the boat has yet to be ascertained, information gathered indicated that the boat was carrying about 200 passengers. The majority of the passengers were artisans, miners and traders coming from Niger State to Kebbi State. “Absence of rescue equipment is the major impediment to the rescue operation. The information at hand showed that the boat was carrying 200 people. We are waiting to hear from our men who have since joined the rescue team.” A source in the National Inland Waterways Authority, who spoke with our correspondent on condition of anonymity, said the number of passengers on board had yet to be ascertained because the search operation was still ongoing. The source said, “They had buried corpses recovered through collaborative efforts of local divers, marine police in conjunction with officials of NIWA, Kebbi State Emergency Management Agency, police and victims’ family members.’’ The Executive Director, Kebbi SEMA, Alhaji Abbas Jamba, who also spoke to our correspondent, said the recovery was a continuous process. He stated that he couldn’t say when it would end going by the presumed number of passengers on board. The Special Adviser on Media to Governor Atiku Bagudu, Yahaya Sarki, in a statement on the incident said the state was in deep shock over the boat accident. It added, “The state governor, Senator Atiku Bagudu condoles with the families of those affected by the unfortunate boat accident and prays to the Almighty Allah to give the families the forbearance to bear the loss in good faith. “The Kebbi State Government was already collaborating with Ngaski Local Government and other relevant authorities for search and rescue operations in the area.” At present, N155m had been donated by sympathisers who visited the state to commiserate with grieving families. The Nigeria Governors’ Forum donated N50m followed by the Sokoto State Government which gave N40m, Zamfara State Government N30m, Jigawa State government N25m while the Senate assisted the families with N10m. The state had yet to get over the calamity, when news filtered in that members of a vigilance group popularly called ‘Yan Sakai’ were killed by suspected bandits in the Danko/Wasagu Local Government Area of the state. It was gathered that the vigilantes were killed last Friday when the bandits attacked seven villages in the area. ‘Yan Sakai is a vigilance group assisting security agents deployed almost a year to secure volatile areas under siege by bandits. The state police command confirmed the killing of 80 vigilantes in the Danko/Wasagu LGA of the state. But a source in the village said the casualty figure had risen to 92 with several others injured. The spokesperson for the police in the state, DSP Nafiu Abubakar, confirmed the attack. In April, suspected bandits terrorising villages in the state ambushed and killed the eight cops and a divisional police officer in Makuku village, in the Sakaba LGA of the state. After hoisting a flag in parts of neighbouring Niger State last month, bandits, kidnappers and cattle rustlers reportedly invaded Kebbi State.  Danko/Wasagu LGA inhabited by the Dakakari people, commonly referred to as ‘Zuru’, has been under bandits’ attacks. The local government shares boundary with parts of the ungoverned spaces of Zamfara State to its North and to the East, the Kamuku Game Reserve straddling Kaduna and Niger states. Most of the forests and hilly areas are under bandits’ control. Unconfirmed reports indicated that between January 2020 and January 2021, the peaceful farming communities in Danko/Wasagu lost 363 persons to bandits’ attacks with 16 people severely injured. Within the same period, huge ransoms were purportedly paid to kidnappers who abducted 201 persons. The number of rustled cattle is put at 3,915 apart from 2,355 sheep and 150 camels stolen from farmers. Six women were reportedly raped and 114 motorcycles burnt or stolen. Some survivors of bandits’ attacks in Danko/Wasagu LGA and part of Zuru Emirate in Kebbi State, including those who lost their loved ones to attacks had turned refugees, hibernating at internally displaced persons’ camps. Narrating his ordeal, an IDP in Dabai, a suburb of Zuru town from Munhaye village in Wasagu Chiefdom, Nuhu Bitrus said, “Bandits recently invaded our village and after a shooting spree, we lost 33 people and they kidnapped about 20 women with little children. “Ever then, we have managed to pack our belongings and travelled over three hours to this place. Our village is a large one with over 500 compounds and we are prosperous farmers who could take care of our needs and sponsor our kids’ education. “Now we cannot go near the village. No one is talking about us. We don’t want anything from the government. All we want is a secure environment so that we can return home to farm. That’s all we are asking.” Wakala Audu is a 50-year-old farmer. He is married with two wives and is a father of 11 children. He is also an IDP from D’Lombo village in Wasagu Chiefdom. Wakala stated that the attackers came in large numbers, pairing in two or three on motorcycles. “They killed 17 persons that day, including our Mai Anguwa (sub-village head), Mallam Maifada Matu. They stole my 23 cows and hundreds of cows belonging to my relatives and other residents of the village. “We escaped into the bush with our wives and children. After two days, the governor came. I was not around when he came because we went to bury corpses of our people.’’ He added that his village with over 300 households with fertile farmlands had been deserted as residents escaped leaving behind valuables they could not carry in a hurry. When the state governor visited the Danko/Wasagu area on a condolence visit, he pleaded with the people to remain calm, noting that the government was doing everything to restore normalcy in the area. Bagudu also appealed to youths in the village who protested against incessant bandits’ attacks in the area. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com