A coalition of women groups under the aegis of the Amalgamation of Northern Women Associations have asked the Federal Government to allow for a referendum to allow Biafra agitators to choose whether or not to remain in Nigeria. The protest march which held at the Unity Fountain, Abuja, under the watchful eyes of heavily armed policemen and operatives of the Department of State Services, was attended by dozens of placard-carrying women. Some of the placards read, “Stop Killing Northerners,” “Enough is Enough,” “Igbo, Stop Giving Nigeria a bad name,” and “Referendum Now,” among others. The Coordinator of the group, Hadiza Adamu, made the demand on behalf of the group during a peaceful protest, in Abuja, on Saturday. She said, “Nigerian history has shown that women carry the heavy burden of war and acts of insurrections and terrorism. We have gone through it from 1967 to 1971, our men died and left us with the children to cater for out of nothing, other men that survived simply moved on, but we never moved on. “The aftermath of the war and the sufferings left lifetime scars in our hearts and on our bodies. It is for this reason that we come together today and say we don’t want another war, another insurrection.” She further stated that, “We therefore, unanimously call on President Muhammadu Buhari, as the leader and father of the country as well as the leadership of the National Assembly, President of the Senate, Dr. Ahmad Lawal, and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt, Hon, Femi Gbajabiamila, to immediately call for a referendum in the country. Let people choose to live in peace in Nigeria or leave. Any other group or nationality that wants to secede or exercise their rights of self determination like the South-East has been agitated for decades should be allowed to leave Nigeria peacefully, without resorting to a second civil war.” The group alleged that  the people of the South-East had turned the entire region into a war zone, further claiming “northerners irrespective of their tribes are no longer safe, states’ infrastructures are no longer safe, service personnel from police to army are not safe, INEC offices and other symbols of democracy in the country are being destroyed on daily basis.“ The women further claimed that their husbands no longer felt safe travelling to the South-East to do business. Adamu also said, “It is in the light of the above that we are saying enough is enough and let Mr. President allow for a referendum that will make the Igbo people realise their long-term dream of being a Biafra nation. “No more killing of northerners, no more killing of police officers, no more profiling of northerners and attacking their businesses. “Let Igbo have their independent nation away from the rest of Nigeria.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com