The Federal High Court sitting in Abuja on Tuesday ordered that the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, be remanded in the custody of the Department of State Service. Justice Binta Nyako gave the order while granting the application by the prosecution. The counsel to the prosecution, S. M. Labaran, applied to the court to remand Kanu in custody. Labaran also applied that the trial of Kanu that was earlier slated for October 20 be brought forward. Kanu, who appeared without legal representation, told the court that his house was earlier invaded. So, he had to go underground. The court ordered that Kanu be remanded in DSS facility and adjourned his matter to July 26 and 27. The court also ordered for accelerated hearing and asked the prosecution to inform Kanu’s lawyer of the proceeding in court. Kanu’s lawyer, Maxwell Opara, told our correspondent that he did not see his client until he left the court premises. Also present at the court premises was activist Omoyele Sowore who told our correspondent that he came to court when he heard that Kanu was appearing in court. According to him, he stood in solidarity with Kanu as he had been in a similar situation. Earlier at a press conference, the Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, had confirmed Kanu’s arrest. The text of the press conference read, “Self-acclaimed leader of the proscribed secessionist Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, has been arrested through the collaborative efforts of Nigerian intelligence and security services. “Nwannekaenyi Nnamdi Ngozichukwu Okwu-Kanu, born September 25, 1967 at Afaraukwu, Abia State is a holder of Nigerian Passport No. A05136827 first issued 17th October 2013 at FESTAC, Lagos. “It is recalled that Kanu was arrested on October 14, 2015 on 11-count charge bordering on terrorism, treasonable felony, managing an unlawful society, publication of defamatory matter, illegal possession of firearms and improper importation of goods, among others. “A judge at the Federal High Court, Abuja revoked Kanu’s bail that was granted him on health ground and issued a bench warrant for his arrest on the same date, over his failure to appear in court for hearing. “He has, upon jumping bail, been accused of engaging in subversive activities that include inciting violence through television, radio and online broadcasts against Nigeria and Nigerian State and institutions. “Kanu was also accused of instigating violence especially in the South Eastern Nigeria that resulted in the loss of lives and property of civilians, military, paramilitary, police forces and destruction of civil institutions and symbols of authorities.”