…team depart for US Tuesday Stand-in Super Eagles B team coach, Austin Eguavoen, has dropped five players ahead of next weekend’s international friendly against Mexico, billed for the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum on July 3, Saturday PUNCH reports. The squad, made up of purely home-based players, will be without Rivers United’s Ifeanyi Anaemena, Kwara United’s Christopher Nwaeze, PKE FC’s Shaibu Suleman and Enyimba’s Ekundayo Ojo for the tie, while Chinonso Ezekwe of Enugu Rangers left camp to seal a deal abroad. Eguavoen, who is also the Technical Director, Nigeria Football Federation, listed captain Ikechukwu Ezenwa, Enyimba’s trio John Noble, Imoh Obot and Anayo Iwuala in the final 23-man squad that will travel to the United States in the exhibition game against the reigning CONCACAF champions match next week. Eguavoen took over the squad after the team’s Franco-German coach Gernot Rohr opted out from the friendly, stating that he only played an advisory and supervisory role to the home-based team, the Super Eagles B, and not their coach. The list also has Olisa Ndah, Adekunle Adeleke,Tope Olusesi, Imoh Obot, Stephen Jude and Ibrahim Olawoyin. Reacting to his exclusion, Anaemena said he was dropped due to his inactiveness with Rivers United in the Nigerian Professional Football League. He said, “It happens in football,” the 29-year-old defender told Saturday PUNCH. “They said I had just recovered from an injury that kept me out for a while and that I have not played an active game.” Ojo expressed shock at his omission from the team, having barely trained with them. “Honestly, I don’t know why I was dropped but I think it is best known to the coaching crew. Five of us (Iwuala, Noble, Adeleke, Ojo) came in last night and I was dropped in the (Friday) morning. “But I take it in good fate and I wish the team success. I was once there and I will never wish the team bad because I can still be there tomorrow.” Meanwhile, the home-based team will travel to the US on Tuesday for the match, Saturday PUNCH has exclusively learnt. Nigeria haven’t beaten Mexico in their last four encounters, which ended in three draws and a defeat for the three-time African champions. “The team will depart for USA on Tuesday for the game against Mexico,” a top official of the team, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to talk on the issue, told Saturday PUNCH. “The team are prepared and we hope they can prove doubters wrong by putting up a good performance against the Mexicans.” Goalkeepers: Ikechukwu Ezenwa (Heartland FC); John Noble (Enyimba FC); Stanley Nwabali (Lobi Stars)
Defenders: Olisa Ndah (Akwa United); Adekunle Adeleke (Abia Warriors); Tope Olusesi (Rangers International); Imoh Obot (Enyimba FC); Tebo Degaulle (Nasarawa United);Lawal Murtala (Kwara United); Enyinnaya Kazie (Rivers United)
Midfielders: Anthony Shimaga (Rangers International); Seth Mayi (Akwa United); Uche Onwuasonaya (Plateau United); Samuel Nnoshiri (Katsina United)
Forwards: Anayo Iwuala (Enyimba FC); Stephen Jude (Kwara United); Ibrahim Olawoyin (Rangers International); Charles Ashimene (Akwa United); Auwalu Malam (Kano Pillars); Nenrot Emmanuel (Plateau United); Abdulmutalif Sanusi (Katsina United); Sunday Adetunji (Rivers United); Mohammed Zulkifilu (Plateau United) Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com