The Lagos State Government, through the Lagos State Sports Trust Fund, has donated sports equipment to public secondary schools in the six education districts of the state. Lagos State Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu said the donation of the equipment was a demonstration of their understanding of the benefits of sports in education. The Governor, who was the special guest of honour at the presentation ceremony in Lagos on Thursday, was represented by his Deputy Chief of Staff, Gboyega Soyombo. “The Lagos State Government is fully committed to improving sporting facilities in our schools, to take full advantage of the benefits of enhanced sporting activities in our public schools that cannot be overemphasised.  We most certainly cannot do this alone, hence we are always ready to join hands with the private sector and notable individuals to raise funds for the promotion of sporting activities and the development of sporting facilities in Lagos State,” Sanwa-Olu said. “The distribution of sports equipment to public secondary schools via the six educational districts in Lagos State today (Thursday) is a testament to the great work being done by the LSSTF. “LSSTF is currently reconstructing an Olympic-size swimming pool, warm-up pool, training pool and a 500-seater spectator stand at Rowe Park Sports Centre, Yaba. These projects will soon be delivered and it is expected that the number of medals in swimming for the state will triple in future swimming competitive events,” Sanwo-Olu added. In his remarks, Chairman, LSSTF, Femi Pedro, said the agency had a target of N10bn to support the Lagos State Sports Commission to fund sports activities and infrastructure. “It is against this background that the LSSTF is creating and uniting opportunities capable of diverting the attention of the youths from crimes by focusing on the development of school sports.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com