The Director General of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency, Dr Bashir Jamoh, has expressed worry over the persisting war-risk insurance on Nigerian bound cargoes, calling for its removal. This followed reports that Nigeria’s maritime trade was being threatened due to increasing war risk insurance premium now being paid by Nigeria-bound vessels. War risk insurance is a type of insurance, which covers damage due to acts of war, including invasion, insurrection, rebellion and hijacking. Some policies also cover damage due to weapons of mass destruction. It is most commonly used in the shipping and aviation industries. In a statement on Sunday, Jamoh said while piracy in the Nigerian waters was waning, stakeholders in the industry were worried that offshore underwriting firms insisted on a very high premium to be paid by those conveying cargoes to Nigeria. At the recent inauguration of the deep blue project in Lagos by the president, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), Bashir had said, “Since the deployment of the deep blue project assets in February, there has been a steady decline in piracy attacks in the Nigerian waters on a monthly basis. “We therefore invite the international shipping community to rethink the issue of war risk insurance on cargo bound for our ports. “Nigeria has demonstrated enough commitment towards tackling maritime insecurity to avert such premium burden.” According to the nonprofit Oceans Beyond Piracy’s 2020 report, the total cost of additional war risk area premiums incurred by Nigeria-bound ships transiting the Gulf was $55.5m in 2020 alone. It added that 35 per cent of ships transiting the area also carried additional kidnap and ransom insurance totaling $100.7m. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com