THE Deputy Governor of Edo State, Philip Shaibu, has assured the people of the state that Governor Godwin Obaseki, will in the next few days form his cabinet. He explained that the need to carry all stakeholders along was responsible for the seeming delay. Shaibu stated this while speaking to journalists shortly after a service commemorating Father’s Day at St Paul Catholic Church, Benin City, where he also served as chief mass servant during the service. He said, “We will get a cabinet very soon. The process of getting the names started from the grassroots. This governor will not appoint people all by himself. He prefers that the people should nominate those that they feel should run the affairs of the state. “I am sure the best hands will be nominated by the people to serve their interest in the belief that together we will take Edo State to a great height.” On the significance of Father’s Day celebration, the deputy governor said, “Today (Sunday) reminds us that as fathers, we should play our role not only in our homes, but in our workplace and the society. “As a country, the president is the father of the nation. The 36 state governors are fathers of the 36 states and they should act as fathers to the country and to their states and when that is done, prosperity will abound. “Chief executives of companies should act as fathers in their various establishments. Those who find themselves in various positions of authority should also see themselves as fathers. “With this, Nigeria will be a better place. We should amplify those things that unite us and make positive statements at all times.” Earlier in his homily, Rev Fr. Edwin Omoregbe urged the church and particularly women to appreciate the men who he said were not duly appreciated by the society. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com