The management of the Bayero University Kano has warned students of the institution against protesting the death of a 200-level student in the Department of Accounting, who lost his life after he was hit by a speeding vehicle. The deceased, Kamaluddeen Moshood, died at the National Orthopaedic Hospital, Dala, Kano, following injuries he sustained from the accident. The Secretary of the university, Mallam Lamara Garba, who issued the warning in a statement on Sunday, said the incident occurred on Tuesday. “Any planned protest by any person will be viewed as anti-progress to the university and will be met by decisive action,” he said. He stated that Kamaluddeen was hit by a fast-moving vehicle outside the campus on Tuesday, June 8, 2021, around 10pm, and on receiving the report of the accident, the Vice-Chancellor instantly directed the Dean of Students’ Affairs to visit the scene and take all necessary action. Garba said, “The driver of the vehicle was apprehended, while the victim was rushed to hospital under the supervision of the university’s Director of Health Services for prompt medical attention as he sustained multiple fractures. “While at the hospital, preliminary investigations revealed that Kamaluddeen had a severe crushed leg injury and needed to have his leg amputated to save him. “However, the doctors, who observed him, advised that in view of his unstable condition, it might not be possible to conduct such a major operation. It was in the process of stabilising him that he gave up the ghost. “The management wishes to extend its heartfelt condolences to the immediate family of Kamaluddeen, his friends, associates as well as the entire members of the university community. “While commiserating with members of the university community over the sad demise of Kamaluddeen, the management, however, wishes to strongly warn against any plan by students or group of persons to engage in any act that can jeopardise the peace being enjoyed on campus in whatever form. “The university has done everything possible to save young Kamaluddeen. The university will not therefore condone any act of uncivilised behaviour whatsoever, which will disrupt the peace on our campuses. Any student caught doing so will be decisively dealt with. “Any breach of this warning will be viewed very seriously by the university management. All serious minded students are advised by this announcement to face their studies and prepare for the forthcoming second semester examination, which is just around the corner. To be forewarned is to be forearmed, for a word is enough for the wise.” Lamara added that in its determined effort to ensure the safety of students and other stakeholders of the university, the management had earlier this year made a submission to the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing on the urgent need to construct a pedestrian bridge near the main gate of the new campus for use by students in crossing over the trunk ‘A’ highway that passes by the side of the university.” He added that the ministry had obliged the request and arrangements had gone far in that regard. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com