The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and the Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, on Monday hailed the Independent power plant project of Afe Babalola University, Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State. At the inauguration of the IPP and other landmark projects of the institution, Fayemi described the project as a precursor to others that would soon spring up to address the state epileptic power supply. Fayemi said the ABUAD founder, Aare Afe Babalola’s intention to build a power plant project in the institution five years ago prompted his administration to begin the construction of a five-megawatt power plant two years ago to address the electricity challenges confronting the people of the state. Fayemi said, “One of the things Baba (Babalola) has done so well is to challenge those of us in leadership.” He lauded Babalola for contributing immensely to government projects, especially the airport project, for which he had committed himself to constructing a terminal building, adding, “The airport project and the Ekiti Knowledge Zone are two major projects of this administration situated along ABUAD area to inject more life into the environment.” Earlier, ABUAD Pro-chancellor and former Minister of Education, Prof. Tunde Adeniran, described Aare Babalola as “an inimitable reference point in hard work, honesty, resourcefulness, philanthropy.” Among dignitaries at the event were the Osemawe of Ondo Kingdom, Oba Victor Kiladejo; former Governor of Ekiti State, Chief Segun Oni; and Chairman Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria, Prof Abba Waziri. Meanwhile, Buhari in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, titled, ‘President Buhari congratulates Afe Babalola on IPP, development projects,’ congratulated the staff and management of the university on the milestones, “which include ground-breaking for factories and a rice mill, and donation of a library by the Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council, Prof Tunde Adeniran.” The President commended Babalola, “for his visionary leadership style and diligent efforts that have brought the institution to the frontline within a short period. Buhari also called for greater “focus on entrepreneurship and other relevant skills in a fast-paced world, largely driven by digital technology.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com