Percy Ani writes on how the ban on Twitter activities in Nigeria by the Federal Government has affected tweeps who use the microblogging platform to promote their trade A female food vendor identified only as Ade found it easy using the microblogging social network platform, Twitter, to promote her business. Ade, who told our correspondent that she started her food business on the app in 2019, added that she started the trade to make ends meet. She noted that she got immediate orders from Twitter users especially her followers whenever she posted cooked meals which include local beans delicacies such as ‘ewa agoyin and moimoi’ which she described as her signature dishes. Luckily for her, she said her life has experienced a turnaround since she started advertising her meals on the platform because she enjoyed a good patronage from other Twitter users. Like Ade, many young Nigerian entrepreneurs depended on Twitter to advertise their goods and services, as the platform, according to most of them, provided access to a large number of customers. Ade further said what made the platform unique was that it cost nothing to advertise her goods and services, unlike other social media platforms where she would pay before advertising. FG ban on Twitter But the visibility and patronage including free adverts enjoyed by Ade and many other Nigerian traders on Twitter came crashing like a pack of cards on Friday, June 4, when the Federal Government announced the suspension of Twitter operations. A statement by Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Muhammed, ironically through the ministry’s Twitter handle, announced the ban. The ban came following Twitter’s deletion of a tweet by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd) threatening to treat secession agitators in the language they understand and provoking the nation’s 30-month civil war. A tweet that the American social media company claimed violated Twitter’s ‘abusive behaviour’ policy. The ban generated widespread condemnation and affected almost 40 million Nigerian Twitter users according to a market and consumer data platform, Statista. The Federal Government said the verdict was reached because of the ever-increasing usage of the platform for activities that could undermine the corporate existence of the country. It later asked the firm to register as a business concern. The Association of Licensed Telecommunications Operators of Nigeria had suspended access to the app with some Nigerians migrating to virtual private networks to circumvent the ban. This is as the Federal Government through the Ministry of Justice said it would prosecute those using Twitter despite the ban. Effect of ban on Twitter vendors Ade said since all of her customers were Twitter users, the ban had in less than one week nearly stunted her business and crippled her source of livelihood. She said most of her customers were busy professionals and business people who checked Twitter for news updates and when they checked her account, they patronised her to save time they would have lost cooking. Ade said most of her customers didn’t migrate to VPN or stopped being on Twitter for fear of being arrested and prosecuted by the government. She said, “I guess being busy people, most of them do not have the time to go through the hassles of downloading VPNs to log in to Twitter. I think they prefer not to use the platform for now.’’ The aggrieved ex-Twitter vendor added that the government, through the ban had succeeded in making life harder for impoverished Nigerians. She added, “This is a tough period for people like me who earned a living using the Twitter platform. A lot of us are self-employed and Twitter is the means through which we reach our customers. It has become an avenue for survival and achieving our life goals, something the Federal Government has been unable to provide, but they still went ahead and took it away from us. In a week sometimes, I make enough money to settle my bills, take care of my other needs and still save to reinvest.’’ Since the ban, she said that she had been thinking hard about other things she could do to survive. “The president, like me, is a user on the Twitter platform. When my tweets go against certain rules on the app, they are taken down and sometimes, I even run the risk of losing my Twitter account. Why then are millions of Nigerian users of Twitter suffering because a fellow user’s tweet got deleted?” she asked. For Chinonyelum Nnaji, another Twitter user who sells male office shirts on the platform, before the ban, she made sales every day on the platform. Nnaji noted that she was able to reach a wider audience on the platform by tweeting to promote her business and posting trending topics so that whenever any Twitter user clicked on trending topics, her business tweet would pop up. “I now rely on the sales I made off Twitter alone. Business on the platform is so good that last month, I made N150,000 from a sale.’’ she said. She said she intends to explore other social media platforms, fearing that it might not be an easy ride. Nnaji stated, “None of these other social media platforms provides as much engagement as Twitter does. On Instagram, I have to pay a certain amount of money for promotions so that my business posts get across to more people, yet I do not get enough customers. But this is not the case with Twitter where I never needed to pay for business promotions and I still get numerous potential customers who see my posts and patronise my business. ” Nnaji further said that the ban was shocking to her as she had yet to wrap her head around the reason the app was banned. “I cannot imagine things would escalate to the point where the Twitter app would be suspended for Nigerians,” she added. A shoemaker who uses the Twitter platform to advertise his wares, Oluwagbemileke Mensah, complained that since the ban, he had not been able to tweet conveniently to advertise his shoes for fear of arrest. He added that most of his old customers who usually engaged in his business tweets had not come on the app since the ban for fear of arrest and prosecution. “Before the ban was enforced, I had a few new customers who just followed me and intended to patronise me, but because of the ban, I have not heard from them,” he said. He said prior to the ban, the platform served as a means of attaining financial freedom for youths and a platform to challenge unpopular government policies and draw attention to critical issues. Mensah said, “I believe that the government has discovered the leverage the Twitter app has given Nigerian youths. It serves as a tool to gain financial independence and a means through which youths can resist bad governance. The Nigerian government hates this because they know that a hungry and uninformed man can easily be dominated.’’ Also speaking, a clothing and accessories vendor on Twitter, Ebunoluwa Olajide, noted that the ban had affected her business. She said her business was recording appreciable patronage when the Federal Government slammed a ban on Twitter. Olajide said, “In just two months of actively marketing my wares on the Twitter platform, I made more sales than I had made in one year using both the Instagram and Facebook platforms. Also, I didn’t even have to pay a dime to attract customers who have been patronising me on Twitter, unlike other social media apps where one has to pay a small fee for their goods and services to reach a wider audience.” She added that since the ban she had not made sales because many Twitter users had stayed off the platform to avoid arrest and prosecution. “I believe Twitter will be almost unrecognisable these days; almost like a ghost town, she lamented. On what she plans to do to stay afloat following the ban, Olajide says she intended to return to her business pages on Instagram and Facebook to struggle for patronage. “My worry is that on the two apps, small businesses like mine do not get enough engagements and even when one opts for paid adverts, one sometimes will not get enough people who are interested in making purchases unlike on Twitter,” she said. Another Twitter vendor who sells male and female sneakers, clothes and wristwatches, Ayodeji Ogunyimika, noted that many people had been affected by the ban and not only small and medium enterprises. He said one of the challenges he faced was the forced shift in his target audience. “There are now fewer interactions on Twitter as many people have chosen to go off the app at least for now, watching with keen interest what the outcome will be,’’ Ogunyimika stated. Ogunyimika further said that it was a herculean task getting people to patronise him, adding that even if he migrated to VPN to gain access to Twitter, his display posts would show other countries whereas his target audience was in Nigeria. “It definitely will not work as the only people who will see my products are those in the country the VPN server is routed to,” he said. He added that digital marketers on the platform would be the worst hit by the ban since most brands wouldn’t patronise Twitter digital marketers anymore for fear that their products and services might be tagged as contraband if they advertised and promoted them using the  banned platform in Nigeria. “Since the Federal Government has threatened to sanction every violator of the ban, it is going to affect both small and big businesses directly and indirectly. Small businesses like mine will no longer have engagements while big businesses can no longer use digital marketers to advertise their products and services using the Twitter platform. “The only thing left now is to return to other social media platforms such as Instagram and Facebook. Paying for adverts on Youtube can also help and some vendors affected by the ban can as well use their Whatsapp pages to advertise their products and services even though that does not guarantee enough exposure and patronage. Twitter has a wider reach because it is an instant conversational app as anyone can join in on conversations and make purchases immediately.’’ Experts react to development Commenting on the issue, the Executive Secretary, National Association of Small and Medium Enterprises, Eke Ubiji, described the ban as unfortunate. Ubiji said that no ban had positive effects on citizens and the ripples of each ban were often borne by the different sectors of the economy. He added, “The Twitter ban will take a huge toll on the vendors who use the social media platform for advertising their goods and services. One can only imagine the sad effect of the ban on vendors who depend solely on the Twitter app for their businesses. The only option these vendors have now is to immediately move to other social media platforms to market their wares and services. Truly, Twitter provides a unique platform that no other social media app offers as engagements are easier and free on it. The ban of the app is truly unfortunate.” Besides, a financial planning expert, Kalu Aja, stated that social media enabled brands to interface directly with consumers and offered specific and target direct marketing. Aja noted, “Currently, no organisation in the world can make a profit or even get recognition without some form of advocacy via social media.  Twitter, in particular, allows SMEs and sole proprietors with zero marketing budgets, a cheap smartphone and a brand promise to earn a living and thrive in their business space. Social media platforms cause the cost of commerce to fall and boost trade which generates Value Added Tax. Banning Twitter app without providing viable options is a bad decision that will have serious implications not only on those who depend on the platform to run their businesses but also on the economy as well.’’ A strategy & transformation expert, Ayo-Bankole Akintujoye, said social media platforms were vital to the growth of small businesses. He stated, “This is so because traditional media might be over the budget for small business owners if they intend to place adverts. While there are other social media platforms, Twitter is the best for content generation. Twitter is a platform that is important for the promotion of new products and services. It offers low cost and high impact since vendors can reach large audiences easily.’’ He explained that Nigeria lacked a strong judiciary and legislature, stating that if the country had strong institutions, certain government decrees such as the Twitter ban would not stand. Akintujoye said, “That the president’s tweet was deleted is not enough reason to ban the app in the country. It is not done anywhere else in the world. Nigeria spends more time majoring in minors. We should not be having Twitter ban conversations at this time.” He further said that the ban portrayed the country in a bad light because foreign investors might be sceptical about investing in the country. “Aside from looking for alternative platforms where small businesses can advertise their products and services, we must not relent in our efforts in fighting that the banning of Twitter be reversed,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com