The Emir of Lafia, a retired Justice of the Supreme Court, Justice Sidi Bage, has been named the chairman of the five-man committee set up by the National Judicial Council to monitor the implementation of Memorandum of Action signed between the Nigeria Governors Forum and the Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria on the financial autonomy for the judiciary. The President of the Nigerian Bar Association, Olumide Akpata, disclosed the identities of the committee members in an update report on the suspended JUSUN strike through his email newsletter to members on Thursday. Recall that the NJC, in a statement by its Director of Information, Soji Oye, on Wednesday said it had set up a five-man monitoring committee to ensure that the state governors do not renege on their obligations under the MoA. Akpata on Thursday, however, revealed the names, comprising Bage (Chairman); the President of the National Industrial Court, Justice Benedict Kanyip; the Chief Judge of Abia State, Justice Onuoha Ogwe; Dr Muiz Banire (SAN) and himself (Akpata). “The move by the NJC is to ensure that the governors do not renege from their financial and ancillary commitments, which influenced JUSUN’s decision to suspend the strike,” he said in the mail. Recall that JUSUN on Wednesday suspended its strike which it embarked on since April 6, 2021 to demand financial autonomy of the judiciary. The Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, has expressed hopes that with the presentation of vehicles to magistrates and judges in Zamfara, the state and Federal Government will work towards the implementation of the Executive Order 10 for the financial autonomy of the state legislature and judiciary. Malami stated this in a speech he delivered at the presentation of official vehicles to Magistrate and Shari’a Courts Judges in Zamfara State on Thursday. His Special Assistant on Media and Public Relations, Umar Gwandu, disclosed this in a statement on Thursday. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com