A medical doctor, Jane Ofoma, has been arrested by operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency in Auchi, Edo State, for operating an online catering service, where drugged cookies and biscuits are being made and sold to members of the public. Ofoma, 26, who is a graduate of Medicine from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, was said to have recently completed her internship at the University of Benin Teaching Hospital. The agency accused her of using her Omachi’s Kitchen to sell drugged cookies and biscuits. A statement on Tuesday by the Director, Media and Advocacy, NDLEA, Femi Babafemi, said following intelligence and surveillance, narcotic officers of the Edo State Command of the agency, on Saturday, June 19, 2021, stormed her operational base at No. 1 Winners Way, Auchi, where she was arrested. According to him, no fewer than 94 pieces of cookies produced with cannabis sativa were recovered. “She has confessed to baking the cookies with skunk in her statement, while under interrogation,” Babafemi said. Similarly, a 30-year-old man, Emmanuel Ehiramhen, of No. 10 Egan Street, Ekpoma, has been arrested by officers of the command for dealing in crack cocaine, while operatives from the Kwara State Command of the agency have apprehended a 52-year-old ex-soldier, Ibrahim Musa, with 12.167 kilograms of Arizona (cannabis sativa), four grams of cocaine and 25 grams of flunitrazepam. Musa was apprehended on Thursday, June 17, 2021 at Oke-Odo, Tanke area of Ilorin metropolis, when he arrived from Lagos to supply his customers in the state. Musa, a sergeant, who worked in the maintenance department at the Abati Army Barracks, Lagos, from where he was deployed to the 117 Battalion in Chibok, Borno State, before he deserted the Army, had arrived Ilorin in company with his wife, Basirat, in his Honda Accord car with number plate Lagos JJ 707 BL with the seized exhibits. Babafemi stated, “He was arrested at the point of delivery by operatives of the Kwara State Command of the agency. Under interrogation, Ibrahim revealed that while at Chibok, he got connected to a supplier of Arizona and other drugs in Lagos, whom he contacted when he deserted the Army in October 2020. “He said he decided to go into the illicit drug business to enable him fend for his two wives and three children. The suspect revealed that the latest journey was his second trip to Ilorin to deliver drugs and decided to travel with one of his wives, who was not aware of his mission.” Reacting to the arrests, the Chairman/Chief Executive, NDLEA, Brig. Gen. Buba Marwa (retd.), commended the Edo and Kwara State commands of the agency for their vigilance and commitment to the goal of ridding Nigeria of the menace of illicit drugs trafficking and abuse. He charged the commanders, officers and men of the commands and their counterparts across the country not to relent in the discharge of their responsibilities, and assured them that he would continue to make their welfare a priority. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com