Since a loosely stitched land mass in 1914 became Nigeria with amalgam of tribes who love to hate and loathe each other, the world’s most populous black nation has failed herself. At independence in 1960, which was not earned due to fighting the colonial administration but handed on a platter, Nigerians have never really fought for values that could lead to a formidable nation. Although a 30-month ‘dog fight’ of Nigeria and wishful Biafra ended in 1970 with then Head of State, General Yakubu Gowon, proclaiming “No Victor No Vanquished”, Nigerians immediately got back together only to start doing what they do best: “Hating each other”. More than half a century after, with civilian and military governments, Nigeria is fast becoming a failing state. In the early 2000, then US Senate Majority Leader, Harry Reid, said to me: “Nigeria is working hard at democracy”. Such a commentary meant the country is hardly making needed progress. That is backed by the 2021 evidence of how things have been falling apart. There are obvious changes but the changes have not put Nigeria in any positive direction. Agitation to restructure and or separate is deafening – falling on deaf ears. What restructure and will the emerging structure produce “new and improved” Nigerians who will be more citizens than tribesmen? Putting a lipstick on a pig does not make it a handsome horse. A nation at war by itself because there is incessant sense of uneasiness will not have energy to focus on nation building. Nigerians love confusion and distraction because of being busy doing something that is nothing is seen as one doing their best. Ironically, if you make every compound in Nigeria a state with their own oil well, Nigeria will divide along whose mother is this or that. Until sense of citizenship trumps tribal identity and undue rights some ascribe to themselves like “born to rule”, Nigeria will remain what the widow of the late Martin Luther King said to me in March 1999, during reception for then president-elect Olusegun Obasanjo: “If the hope of the black race is on Nigeria, the race is doomed”. Interpret as you may but Nigeria as the seventh most populous nation in the world, her reputation as a nation is bottom of the barrel. “Hail Thee Nation where Hell Rages”, is not what Nigerians want for themselves. But the mental shift needed to achieve higher plane tugs at Nigerians such that the status quo prevails. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com