John R. Jimoh, 4, Olukoya Street, Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State: Some folk ran into me the other day in a library and advised that I should take it easy with the country’s corrupt politicians in order not to be brought down by the sheer weight of hypertension. First, I reminded him of the unsung heroes dying for a good cause even now in Nigeria. Permit me to digress a little. If you die in a battle for a crassly stupid cause, like the Boko Haram (fake Jihadists) murderers, you die in vain and worst still, in infamy. Now, to the “ace”. The Commander-In-Chief, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), served an ace, a move yet unequalled, say, in military manoeuvres, anytime in recent history, actually one, in the light of the scarcity in the desert of hardship Nigerian workers find themselves occasioned by the run-away inflation flogging the masses. In fact, I perceive that politics will not allow him to replicate it nationwide. No wonder, he is not catching cold (him de kampe when others who are in similar shoes could have caught fever) as the entire nation continues to sneeze. On this score o, ‘Sai Baba,” is on course. Regarding Governor Rotimi Akeredolu’s “Egin” state, let me ask him the same question my Master asked over 2000 years ago, “What will it profit a man if he gains the whole world but loses his soul?” Now to my Commander-In-Chief, your servant’s humble advice with respect to insecurity is this in descending order, urgently, set up an office, or, a National Security Council’s Department of Transnational Threats, which will be responsible for homeland defence, that is, counterterrorism, counternarcotics, computer security to check international crime, yahoo, yahoo, etc. This council should be chaired by the President, and include the vice president, perhaps, I dare say, a new Defence Adviser, all the Service Chiefs, create a new Central Intelligence to provide policy “coordination” – a task that lacks cohesion at the moment-which can involve ensuring that all security arms, particularly, the intelligence community, agree and work together to bring about a particular set of goals. Finally, sir, “Restructure Nigeria NOW!