Recently, the Senate approved the upgrade of the Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro, Ogun State, to a university of technology. In this interview with GRACE EDEMA, the Rector, Dr Olusegun Aluko, says the conversion will help the institution to turn the economy of Nigeria around How does it feel being the rector of the school when the bill to convert it to a university was approved? I’m highly elated and excited that all our efforts didn’t go down the drain. So, we are glad that yes, at least another addition to the series of achievements that we have had for the past seven years that I have been the rector of this institution. So, I am grateful to God. What are those major things that needed to be done to move from a polytechnic standard to a university standard? I think one of the things that we need is in the area of manpower; the university has a system different from that of the polytechnic. So, we need manpower in the area of professors, but in other aspects, I think we are okay, because we have adequate structures and equipment as prior to this time, some of the universities that are close to us have been coming to use our equipment to train their students in the area of practical. Definitely we have enough equipment to cater for all the courses we are presently offering. The only area again is that our lecturers need to go through PhD training in order to become professors. Some professors may want to change up like those that are in established universities may want to change the environment, they can come here. If you look at the scenario, they are already on the Federal Government payroll; coming here is like a reduction in their own school and increasing the load in this area. In any area, it is a win-win for the government; the government will reduce costs for the university by bringing some of the professors here to face new challenges. What are the upgrades your academic staff members need to be able to function as university lecturers? To be able to lecture in a university, a Master’s degree is needed; after some time, you are expected to have a PhD; as of today, I am sure that more than 25 per cent of my staff members have PhD. Let’s take a look at established universities, the number of PhD holders they have; a recent publication by the NUC put them at maybe 42 per cent; so, if by now we have up to 25 per cent, I’m very sure most universities do not even have up to that. So, if we have up to 25 per cent PhD holders and in the next few years those with MSc, I am very sure that most of them will enrol for one PhD programme or the other; they are already prepared for this; it’s not something that we will just wake up and say we want to aspire to be a university, we have weighed ourselves. If you could remember, there was a time President Obasanjo wanted to convert some polytechnics to affiliate campuses of some universities during his regime when Dr Oby Ezekwesili was the Minister of Education. We made a presentation to the government that instead of making us an affiliate to that university, come and see what we have and see if we are not entitled to become a university. We are one of the people that did not support that programme, because we told them vehemently that we are too big to be an affiliate of a university that does not even have most of the programmes that we have; from that time, we have been preparing ourselves that this is our goal and by the grace of God, all our academic staff members are prepared for it and they are all making adequate arrangements to upgrade themselves; that was why I said in the next two or three years, we will be having about 69 per cent PhD holders. If you add those with Master’s degrees to the PhD holders, they will be about 80 per cent. In the area of manpower, what we need are professors in each department to beef up the training of those PhD holders so that their papers will be assessed. I am very sure that by the time their papers are being assessed, some of them will be given associate professors by the university. What is the implication of the upgrade of the institution on the nation, the society and the campus community? To the community, the university has the capacity to expand more than the polytechnic, because the funding pattern will change; even in assessing funds, funds allocated to universities differ from those of polytechnics; definitely there is going to be an expansion, curriculum will be enlarged, cooperation will increase and once it increases, the economy of the town will also increase. Then, the area of ego that oh Ilaro is a university town is enough for the indigenes; so, they will be able to compete with Ago-Iwoye, Abeokuta and all other university towns; so, that pride is also there for them. On the part of the students, there is this discrimination against polytechnic graduates although those situations are not based on any reality or anything. Some of them will feel relieved that at least, the discrimination will stop. To the nation, as I have said earlier, the polytechnic already has a culture of practical, using our hands, and now that the culture of theory has been introduced, we are going to get graduates that are capable of turning the economy around; attention will be paid to them. For instance, as a polytechnic, we manufactured the ventilator. I am very sure if it is a university that has done that, it would have been a different story, because attention will be on them and some may not even believe. But everywhere we carried it to, they attested to it that it is a quality product and of recent, we have even published the invention in international papers, but if it was done by a university, you can be sure that a lot of investors will be interested, but because it’s coming from a polytechnic, most of them did not even cast an eye on our product. So, when this one becomes a university of technology, anything that comes out of it will receive attention and the government will now be able to see that this thing is an experiment that must be replicated in other institutions, and that is our aim and goal, so that the people of Nigeria will know that we can also develop technologically without relying on foreign powers. A university system is theory-based knowledge, now that the Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro, is to be converted to a university, don’t you think that the practical focus will be eroded? Every university is autonomous; the culture of practicality is something that is going to be embedded in the theory that is making us a university. The NUC will give guidelines, but our local content will be practical. We are not deviating from the university system, but at the same time, we are infusing our own culture into it. For instance, if the university said do three hours lecture and one hour practical, for me, I will say do three hours lecture and three hours practical, because those that are handling the practical cannot be jobless and we cannot ask them to go home, because the equipment and those that are teaching them are available. We will satisfy the university’s condition and infuse into it our own local content, which is practical, and it is allowed. Why is it that attention is not usually paid to polytechnics? That was what I said earlier about discrimination; and if you look at it, the makers of the policy, majority of them are university graduates and what you are not familiar with is not appreciated. For those of us who have tasted both sides, we can see that this is where the differences are and for a nation to develop, you need technological development; you need people that can be self-employed; you need people that can create jobs, and that’s what skill has to do. If you are skilled, you may even employ yourself instead of looking for employment elsewhere. We have practised it, deposited it and we have seen results from it in this polytechnic. For instance, for our students from the Building Technology and Civil Engineering departments, before you leave this place, you must know how to mould and lay interlocks, and we have seen a lot of them when they graduate, they specialise in laying interlocks. We make sure you are able to practice all those aspects that are related to your field. What are the other contributions in the area of research? The world is moving towards robotic engineering and we are working on something in that area very soon, because we are already talking to some groups of people on how to get a centre for drone development so that we will train people in how to make drones. We are already being reckoned with internationally by our alumni. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com