Singer-turned-pastor, Emmanuel Okosi, aka Soul E Baba, has revealed that before he finally accepted to become a pastor, he was involved in four accidents. Soul E, who is now the General Overseer of the New Evidence Christian Church of God, told Sunday Scoop, “I never wanted to be a preacher I knew I was called into ministry but making money and entertainment was my passion. However,                                                                                                                                      I lost millions of naira and had four ‘major’ accidents. Then, it dawned on me that I needed to answer the call or else I would not be speaking to you right now. Perhaps, you would have heard a different story about me. One thing I learnt from my experience with God is that if He wants you, you cannot run from it.” On how life has been for him since he quit music to focus on full-time ministry, Soul E said, “I did not quit music, I just focused on the assignment I had at hand. God gave people different talents and abilities. Yes, I am into ministry but I also have an album coming out before the end of the year. I just needed to correct that. Life has been amazingly good to me. You can’t work for God and be messed up; never! We have been to over 40 countries doing God’s work and that has been an experience.” Asked if he misses anything about stardom, he said, “I miss nothing about those days because I am now a new man. What I have achieved in 11 years of full-time ministry, I never achieved it doing music. If God calls and sends you, He would make everything available for you. I miss nothing.” Sharing his thoughts on the (quality of) music being churned out by the new generation of artistes, he said, “Trust me, the industry lacks content, the music I hear these days are pure nonsense. Only few have (good) content in their music. It is really sad what the industry has turned into. When we started, it was all about the passion and love for the craft, but now it’s all about fame and money. It is so sad.” The cleric also stated that he was building a new church. He added, “I am building a 1000-capacity church in Mpape, Abuja. We would start activities there soon. I am also working on videos for my three new singles that would be released shortly.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com