Sometimes in 2016, a needless dispute between me and my maternal uncle Mr. Abayomi Arodu resulted in my lodging a complaint with the police and the matter was consequently taking to court. My uncle was substantially charged for fraud before a magistrate court by the police, at Ogba magistrate court. My uncle was arraigned on the 21st of November, 2016. He was granted bail by the court and was released same day, having satisfy the bail conditions unfortunately, a few days after the arraignment, a relation drew my attention to a report published on the Punch newspapers precisely on the 23rd of November, 2016, written by one Opeyemi Soyoye and Titled: ‘Police Arraign Man for 9.8 Million Fraud’. Apparently the reporter stumble on the court proceedings and picked interest in the case, hence the report as published. While neither the reporter nor the Punch Newspaper is liable for the publication, it is necessary for me to correct the wrong impression the publication has created on the personality of my uncle. The report was published in the heat of the misunderstanding and even though my attention was drawn to the publication at that time. I never gave it any serious consideration due to the state of my mind then. The matter was eventually resolved in the course of the trial and I had to personally write to the court to withdraw the charge against my uncle. Notwithstanding the fact that the case and has since been struck out by the court, I often have reasons to have flash back on the publication and the negative effect it had and properly still has, on my uncle. Hence, my decision to do a rejoinder to that story, so as to clear the air and undo the negative impact the publication might have had on the person of my uncle. Having given the above background, I hereby use this medium to publicly express unreserved apology to my uncle, Mr. Abayomi Arodu, who was unjustifiably charged to court by the police as a result of my complaint over the matter that could have been resolved amicably within the family. I deeply regret the very wrong approach I adopted, which led to the charge in court and the eventual publication of the news of the court proceedings in the Punch Newspaper by a roving reporter. I have since in addition to withdrawing the case from court also apologise to my uncle and all our family members for the embarrassment my action brought upon my uncle in particular, and the entire family in general. What happened was a misunderstanding I must state emphatically that Mr. Abayomi Arodu (my uncle) is not a fraud and never defrauded me of any amount whatsoever. The misunderstanding has been resolved and the family is now One Big United Family once again. Even though I know my uncle has forgiven me, I once again seek for his total forgiveness over my actions, which as a result of my naivety. I seriously regret the embarrassment caused my uncle by the publication of 23rd November, 2016. Festus Toyin Osho