The wife of the Niger State Governor, Dr Amina Bello, has advocated screening of cancer patients at primary health care centres to improve patients’ outcomes. Bello, in a statement, said breast and cervical cancers were the most common causes of female cancer-related mortality in Nigeria. “Early detection and treatment significantly decrease cancer mortality rates and the First Ladies against Cancer as well as Roche Nigeria have combined efforts to advocate cancer screening to be incorporated into the country’s national health system at the primary health care level. “This is because cancer treatments are very expensive and over 75 per cent of Nigerians pay for health care out-of-pocket. This is a huge burden on the resource of the average Nigerian. Prevention and early detection of cancer not only improves chances of survival and reduces morbidity, it also reduces the financial burden associated with the cost of treatment. “Primary health care centres are the closest access to health care for people and institutionalising screening of cancers at that level increases early detection thereby reducing the incidence of cancer. It also helps to remove both the economic and cultural barriers that may exist.” She said it was unfortunate that past efforts to raise awareness for cancer and treatment options had not been completely successful in improving cancer health behaviour among women in Nigeria. This, she said was because cancer screening was viewed as an added cost and inconvenience. “Some other factors affecting women’s resistance to cancer screening include low perception of cancer risk, and physician gender preferences. In addition, lack of spouse permission and support; belief that cancer is a death wish and societal discrimination is among the common socio-cultural barriers to screening. It is, therefore, imperative that stakeholders upscale efforts to create awareness of cancer screening available to Nigerian women. “To assist in breaking down these barriers, we need to ensure primary prevention through lifestyle modification and secondary prevention through cancer screening. For both breast and cervical cancers, the screening tests are simple and relatively inexpensive and can easily be provided at primary health centres,” Bello said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com