The Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu has reiterated his commitment to decongesting traffic on the roads of the state by investing in water transport. Sanwo-Olu said this on Tuesday at the Five Cowries Terminal, Ikoyi, during the inauguration of seven boats, which was added to the Lagos Ferry Services fleet. The event was also used to launch the new Cowry card for water transport. The governor, who was represented by the Deputy Governor, Dr Kadri Hamzat, said, “The procurement of these new high capacity boats is a fulfilment of our promise to increase the capacity of LAGFERRY to transport more Lagosians in order to reduce traffic congestion on our roads. “We are also launching the Cowry card for water transport to create a seamless payment scheme for our multimodal transportat system, which is gradually taking shape as we have commenced the integration of our rail lines, bus terminals and waterways. He disclosed that in the last one year, LAGFERRY has moved over 500,000 passengers across the waterways, including the Super Eagles who were successfully ferried to and from Benin Republic for African Cup of Nations qualifying match. “In addition to commuting people, LAGFERRY promotes tourism and commerce by providing logistics solutions to business owners who move their trucks and cargoes through the waterways within Apapa and through regular charter services,” he added. The Managing Director of LAGFERRY, Mr Abdoulbaq Balogun, stated that no accident had been recorded since the operation of the transport agency. He added that the agency had to date successfully moved over 41,040 trucks from its terminal, while over 2,308 cleared goods containers have been received from the port and over 941 containers transported back to the port. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com