Recyclan, an environmental sustainability company in partnership said it was partnering with Humanity Nigeria to recover 400 tonnes of PET plastic waste from the natural environment. It said it aimed to break the Guinness World Record for the most amount of plastic waste recovered in a month through this initiative. The company disclose this during a ceremony which was flagged off by the Supervisor for Environment, Hon. Olutoyin Obaseki, to launch the initiative in Lagos. Some of the attendees were the President of Humanity Nigeria, Femi George; Co-Project Director, Somi Oguah; and adjudicators from Ikeja Local Government, officials from the state’s ministry of environment; volunteers and environmental enthusiasts. Oguah speaking on the goal of the initiative said, “This flag off is about the official attempt of Recyclan Nigeria and Humanity Nigeria to recover 400 tonnes of PET plastic waste from the natural environment. “The programme is going to run for 30 days. We have adjudicators from the local government to guide and supervise the collection of plastic waste.” Oguah said it intended to cover the 20 local government areas within the state and had the support of Lagos State Waste Management Agency, having earmarked sites with large volumes of plastic waste. The initiative was sponsored by Recyclan, he said. He said the company which would be three years planned to turns three years said the Guinness World Record attempt was one way planned to celebrate its anniversary. He also disclosed that it would be launching a green fund to provide support for smaller recycling businesses. Speaking on behalf of Humanity Nigeria, Director of Logistics, Ajmal Ali, disclosed that while this was not the first attempt at the record, it would be the first time such a record would be attempted at this scale both for its time length and the magnitude of plastic waste targeted for recovery. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com