The Nigerian Communications Satellite Limted, the Agency for Air Navigation Safety in Africa and Madagascar, and Thales Alenia Space carried out a Satellite-Based Augmentation System helicopter demonstration flight between Douala and Kribi in Cameroon on Wednesday. This was disclosed in a joint press statement on Thursday, titled ‘ASECNA teams up with NIGCOMSAT and Thales Alenia Space to continue developing SBAS Aviation Services in Africa’, available on the press release page of Thales’ website. The partnership between the three agencies is to “accelerate the development of SBAS services for aviation in Africa,” the statement said. On the success of the test-run, the statement read, “Exploiting the SBAS signal they are broadcasting over the Africa & Indian Ocean region since September 2020, providing the first SBAS open service in this part of the world via the NigComSat-1R satellite, and following up the flight demonstrations performed successfully in last January at Lomé Gnassingbe Eyadéma International Airport. The three partners conducted on June 2nd 2021 a successful SBAS demonstration flight between Douala and Kribi in Cameroon with a rotorcraft. “The aim was to show on the field the effectiveness of this technology developed as part of the ‘SBAS for Africa & Indian Ocean’ programme, designed to autonomously provide SBAS services across the continent, thus improving the performance of the global navigation satellite systems, GPS and Galileo.” The statement also provided more details on how the test-run was implemented. It added, “The rotorcraft carried out a low-altitude, two-way demonstration flight along a low-level route linking two point-in-space (PinS) approaches to the Douala airport and a point near the oil platforms off the Kribi coast. “The helicopter was provided by Heli Union and the SBAS receiver by Pildo Labs. This experimental flight demonstrated the ability of the SBAS service to improve navigation safety and efficiency, in view of the operational SBAS services expected to be delivered in 2024.” The Managing Director, Chief Executive Officer, NIGCOMSAT Limited, Dr. Abimbola Alale, who affirmed the agency’s commitment, stated the partnership would help promote the use of SBAS technology in the aviation sector. She said, “We will continue to support and contribute to the success of SBAS flight demonstrations using NIGCOMSAT-1R navigation payload to sensitise stakeholders towards acceptance and adoption of SBAS technology in Africa’s aviation sector for its many benefits especially as it concerns improvement of operational safety, reduction in operational costs and environment. “It is in line with marching order and directive of the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy of Federal Republic of Nigeria; Dr. Isa Pantami, who has directed full exploitation of the capabilities and capacity of NIGCOMSAT-1R satellite for digitalised economy in all sectors for sustainable development in the continent.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com