The Senate has started investigating the alleged illegal withdrawal of N1.05bn from the bank account of the Maritime Academy of Nigeria, based in Oron, Akwa Ibom State. The probe was sequel to the revelations contained in the 2018 report of the Auditor General for the Federation, currently being scrutinised by the Senate Public Accounts Committee. READ ALSO: I’m still baffled Facebook blocked my account for soliciting kidney donor for sick friend – Blogger The Chairman of the panel,   Senator Matthew Urhoghide, at the committee’s last sitting on Thursday, directed Rector of the institution, Duja Effedua, to furnish him with details of the transactions. Effedua had appeared before the panel to answer the AuGF query before the Senate panel when Urhoghide discovered that the Rector was not with relevant documents to justify the withdrawal funds. The AuGF in the audit report observed that the sum of N457 million released to the Academy on 13th December 2012 was irregularly diverted to the United Bank for Africa account number; 1006476693. The report also stated that the sum of N608 million was allegedly,  irregularly, withdrawn from account number 02550040000037 with the United Bank for Africa, without stating the purpose of the withdrawal. The Rector told the Senate panel that he was not in office when the said anomaly was allegedly perpetrated. Effedua also alleged that some top management staff of the academy had not been cooperating with him to unravel the perpetrators of the act. He therefore sought the assistance of SPAC through the Chairman, to compel some of his staff to cooperate with him in his task to unravel those behind the withdrawals. Effedua said, “The allegations against the institution are grievous but, unfortunately, some of the staff are not ready to talk to me about what transpired regarding the audited report. There is also no handover note that addressed the issue. “I need the support and assistance of the Senate Public Account Committee so that senior members of staff who were there when the incident happened could be made to supply valuable information. “It is true, they won’t talk to me, they have written about 6,000 petitions against me, they are frustrating me, I need the help of the committee to carry out the investigation. “I came to kick-start something I don’t have any information about, they will frustrate every effort to get to the roots of the matter. I want an ad hoc committee to be set up and work with me to get to the roots of the matter,” he added The Chairman of the SPAC, objected the idea of an hoc panel but gave the Rector, three weeks to provide the necessary documents to the Committee based on the allegations raised in the AuGF report. Effedua pledged to make himself available at the appointed date with details of the documents required. The AuGF query reads, “Audit observed that the sum of N 457 million released to the Academy on 13th December 2012 was irregularly diverted to UBA account number;1006476693. “All efforts made by the Audit Team to sight the bank statement, supporting documents for utilization of the fund and other relevant details proved abortive. “No response from management as at the time of this report Risk Diversion of funds is illegal and deprives the Government of resources. “The Rector is required to recover the sum of N457,657,293.12  irregularly diverted into a private account and furnish recovery particulars. Sanctions within Financial Reporting 3106 should apply.” The second query read, “Audit observed that the sum of N 608 million was irregularly withdrawn from account number 02550040000037 with the United Bank for Africa (UBA) without stating the purpose of the withdrawal. “No response from management as of the time of this report risk diversion of public fund for purposes other than intended”