No fewer than nine persons were injured in Finima community, Bonny Local Government Area of Rivers State, during a protest against the Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas on Thursday. The Finima people, comprising youths, elders and women had blocked the main entrance to the NLNG industrial area, demanding to be recognised as the landlords to the gas multinational. But the protest by the Finima community turned violent when some youths, also from Bonny, staged a counter-protest. The Finima protesters had displayed placards with inscriptions to show their disapproval, such as ‘NLNG give us our rights as host communities’ and ‘We shall not back down, among others. One of them, Dagogo Brown, said attempts to dialogue with the management of NLNG on the matter proved abortive, adding that Finima had engaged the Nigeria Content and Management Development Board on the matter, but it was politicised. “The NLNG has refused to obey the Nigeria Oil and Gas Industry Development Act of 2010 which clearly defined an host community and their rights. “Finima is the landlords of NLNG and we need to be recognised as such. Finima will not rest until what we deserved by the law of Nigeria, is given to us.” Also, the women leader in Finima, Mrs Prinye Kabaka, “We are calling on the federal government to caution NLNG.” Meanwhile, the Bonny youths who staged a counter protest against the protesters from Finima community, were said to have attacked the Finima protesters, injuring nine people and destroying seven vehicles, including a bus belonging to  Finima Youths Congress. One of the victims, Princewill Brown, accused the traditional leaders in Bonny of sponsoring the youths against the peaceful protest. “Before we knew it, hoodlums from Bonny, armed with matches, guns and bottles attacked us,” he said. But reacting to the protest, the management of the NLNG in a statement by the General Manager, External Relations and Sustainable Development, Eyono Fatayi-Williams, said the protest was a disagreement between two groups. The statement reads partly,” We can confirm an ongoing disagreement between two groups on Bonny Island, which has led to protests and blockade of some major routes. “The NLNG wishes to state that as a good corporate citizen, it applies the principle of fairness and inclusiveness in engaging with its stakeholders.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com