•Senate screens COAS behind closed doors The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.),has submitted a supplementary budget of N895bn  to the National Assembly for consideration. The Chairman, Senate Committee on Army, Senator Ali Ndume, stated this after a closed door screening of Chief of Army Staff, Major General , Farouk Yahaya. Ndume said, “The President had promised us that he will rejig security architecture which he has done . “The Supplementary budget is before us and we will give it speedy consideration. What we have discussed is in camera and all well and expecting light at the end of tunnel.” The National Assembly, had in December last year passed the 2021 Appropriation Bill which is N13, 588, 027,886, 175  as an aggregate expenditure. The Chief of Army Staff  after the closed door screening session assured the public that the Nigerians Army would continue to do its best to tackle security issue in the country. The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, on Thursday,  had promised Nigerians that the National Assembly would give speedy approval to the N895bn supplementary budget announced by the Federal Executive Council on Wednesday. Lawan had said this in Abuja while announcing a N10m donation by the ninth Senate as part of activities to mark its two years of inauguration. He had said, “The National Assembly has been doing all it could with the executive arm of government to bring an end to the series of challenges of insecurity confronting the country. “The Federal Executive Council, as reported in the media on Wednesday, has prepared N895bn supplementary budget to be forwarded to both chambers of the National Assembly for approval. “Over N700bn from the N895bn supplementary budget is earmarked for tackling all forms of insecurity problems in the country, the very reason the National Assembly will give it expeditious consideration and passage.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com