Today, the BET Awards will be packed with performances by popular American megastars – Megan Thee Stallion, Lil Nas X, DaBaby, H.E.R, among others. There would also be a tribute to the late rapper, DMX, and a dedication to Queen Latifah’s acclaimed career. The tribute would be curated by Swizz Beatz while Queen Latifah would receive the Lifetime Achievement Award. Miami Herald reports that Empire star, Taraji P. Henson, will host the live show from the Microsoft Theater in Los Angeles, with performances from DaBaby, DJ Khaled, Jazmine Sullivan, Migos, Lil Baby, Andra Day, Roddy Ricch, City Girls, Kirk Franklin, Lil Durk, Moneybagg Yo, Rapsody, and Tyler the Creator. Megan Thee Stallion and DaBaby – former collaborators who recently traded words online – are the top contenders with seven nominations each. The “Savage” rapper, Meghan, who won three Grammys this year, is up for best female hip-hop artist, an album of the year for ‘Good News’ and video of the year for ‘WAP’ – her number 1 hit with Cardi B. Megan Thee Stallion is also a double nominee for both the viewer’s choice award and best collaboration. DaBaby has four songs competing for best collaboration: “Rockstar” with Roddy Ricch; “For the Night” with Pop Smoke and Lil Baby; “Cry Baby” with Megan Thee Stallion; and “What’s Poppin” with Lil Wayne, Tory Lanez, and Jack Harlow. He was also nominated for best male hip-hop artist, the viewer’s choice award, and album of the year for “Blame It on Baby.” Megan Thee Stallion and DaBaby were two of the big stars at last year’s BET Awards — the first awards show to air during the pandemic. It was a critical success and featured highly produced and well-crafted pre-taped performances, with some centred around the Black experience highlighted by the Black Lives Matter movement, civil rights, and the lives of those lost because of police officers, including George Floyd. More so, Nigerian superstar singers, Burna Boy and Wizkid have been nominated in the Best International Act category alongside other acts like Aya Nakamura (France), Diamond Platnumz (Tanzania), Emicida (Brazil), Headie One (UK), Young T & Bugsey (UK), Youssoupha (France). This year’s show will allow those who are vaccinated to register to be part of the live audience. The network said it is working closely with Los Angeles County to adhere to COVID-19 protocols. While press at the awards show will be limited, BET plans to have a red carpet ahead of the live event, which will feature a number of big-name presenters including Issa Rae, Naomi Campbell, Regina Hall, Lena Waithe, Mj Rodriguez, Saweetie, Jill Scott, Marsai Martin, Chlöe Bailey, and Ashanti. Jennifer Hudson would also make a special appearance at the show.