An emeritus Professor of History, Banji Akintoye, has called on the Yoruba to sign a petition by the Nigerian Indigenous Nationalities Alliance for Self-Determination for a referendum. Akintoye, who was a member of the upper legislative chamber during the Second Republic, said signing the petition would aid the agitation for a Yoruba nation before the Nigerian government as well as international bodies. Akintoye, who is the Chairman of NINAS, stated this in a statement he signed and made available to journalists on Wednesday by his Communications Manager, Mr Maxwell Adeleye. He explained that a referendum was like an election, but the people would not vote for a candidate or a party, but a proposition. The statement read, “We Yoruba people must now move forward to accomplish our Yoruba nation’s self determination by holding a referendum. A referendum is exactly like a regular election in which people line up at voting stations to vote for a candidate. “I want a Yoruba Republic separate from Nigeria. Each voter will be able to vote yes or no. That is the Yoruba nation referendum. “But we Yorubas need to take some steps before we can get our referendum. The first step is to make a strong statement loud and clear that we Yorubas want a referendum. The best peaceful way to make that statement is to circulate a petition among us that we want a referendum. “Already, some patriots under the umbrella of NINAS have now started to circulate a petition that we Yorubas, Igbos, Niger/Deltans and Middle-Belt people want a referendum. “I urge all the millions of Yoruba people within and beyond Nigeria to vote in support of that petition. Sign the petition that you want a Yoruba nation so that we can use the petition supported by millions of us as a weapon to get our referendum.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com