Mobile network providers may earn at least N5bn in a year from bank customers who use Unstructured Supplementary Service Data banking platforms for transactions. In 2020, the total number of USSD transactions in Nigeria was 762 million, according to technext.ng. Last week, bank customers received a notification that read, “Welcome to USSD Banking. Please note, a N6.98 network charge will be applied to your account for banking services on this channel.” Guaranty Trust Bank Plc, in an email to customers on Saturday, titled ‘Important update on USSD transactions’, said the fee would be remitted in full to the network providers. It said, “Please be informed that you are now required to pay a fee of N6.98 to your mobile network provider for every banking transaction carried out on all USSD banking platforms. “This means that when you send money to anyone using USSD, a fee of N6.98 will be charged to your bank account, which is in turn remitted in full by your bank, to your mobile network provider.” According to GTB, airtime and data purchases via USSD are exempt from this charge on USSD platforms. “As our customer, we are making sure you have as many options as possible for all your financial transactions. You can send money to anyone and pay bills anytime using our GTWorld Mobile App, at no extra charge,” the bank said. This follows the agreement reached in March between the deposit money banks and the MNOs after the intervention of the Central Bank of Nigeria and the Nigerian Communications Commission in a dispute about accumulated USSD debts. In a statement at the time, the NCC said, “MNOs and DMBs shall discuss and agree on the operational modalities for the implementation of the new USSD pricing framework, including sharing of Application Programme Interface to enable seamless, direct and transparent customer billing. “The N6.98k per financial transaction conducted at Deposit Money Banks and all CBN-licensed institutions would replace the current per session billing structure, ensuring a cheaper average cost for customers to enhance financial inclusion.” In April, banks disconnected MTN from their USSD channel after the telco reduced banks’ commission on USSD from an average of 3.5 per cent to 2.5 per cent. Also at the time, the banks were owing telcos about N42bn in unremitted USSD fees. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com