The Ondo State Government has knocked the Peoples Democratic Party over its claim on the forthcoming Supreme Court judgement. A statement by the state Commissioner for Information and Orientation Mr Donald Ojogo, said the PDP was showcasing its ignorance on the matter. Earlier, The South-West Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Chief Sanya Atofarati, had alleged that Akeredolu wanted to entice the Supreme Court with the state allocation to ensure that the yet-to-be decided governorship judgement in Ondo State was in his favour. Atofarati said, “It has come to our notice that the Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu Odunayo has been negotiating the forthcoming Supreme Court judgement with the state allocations just for favouritism. “It is imperative to make this known to the general public and particularly the state labour union and its members that Governor Akeredolu has been on the move to negotiate their salaries for his gains and interests by implementing this satanic means through the ongoing half-salary tactics in the state.” But Ojogo said, “That Ondo State is not insulated from this fiscal ravage is saying the obvious. Yet, Akeredolu shall not follow the path of infamy and sack workers as it was in the days of PDP. It is rather, equally more gratifying to evolve ingenious means to sail along than leave workers unpaid for months under the guise of paucity of funds. “It is, perhaps, laughable that PDP failed to realise that its position grossly violates what it represented while it held sway in Ondo State prior to the current administration. The mindless audacity to owe workers seven months, as well as the brazen display of  executive recklessness that saw to the sacking of over 1,000 workers have both combined to repudiate the opposition party’s thrive at demonising Akeredolu and his government. “The said press release has merely made spurious allegations aside laying a sandy foundation ahead of the PDP’s leprous efforts at the Supreme Court. There could not have been a better effort at marketing helplessness occasioned by paucity of ideas and lack of direction as displayed by the press release.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com