Security operatives comprising the police, army and personnel of the Department of State Services on Sunday reportedly invaded the home of a lawyer for the Indigenous People of Biafra, Ifeanyi Ejiofor, at Oraifite in the Ekwusigo Local Government Area of Anambra State. It was gathered that the operatives surrounded the secessionist group’s lawyer’s family house around 2.30am. A source who claimed to have reached the lawyer said distressed voices were heard complaining about manhandling by the operatives. The source said, “We managed to reach Barr Ifeanyi Ejiofor on phone and he confirmed the attack, saying that soldiers, joined by Police and DSS operatives are shooting in different directions and are about breaking into his main compound. “He also said that he heard his neighbours panicking and crying, indicating that they must have been abducted. “The activist lawyer also suspected that some members of his family including siblings, security and domestic aides might have been abducted. He said he had returned home for the weekend yesterday( Saturday) evening and only informed the Oraifite Area Commander (ACP Afolabi) and few others that he was around. The Media and Publicity Secretary of IPOB, Emma Powerful, confirmed the incident. He said, “It was around 2.30am that they surrounded his country home. Is it an offense for someone to defend IPOB? Barr Ejiofor is doing his job as a lawyer. Where in the world is a legal practitioner harassed because he represents an organization? “The Nigerian Army invaded and burnt his house on 2nd December 2019 and killed more than 10 people. Since then, they have been trailing and harassing him. The whole world must hear this because the Nigerian government must get what they are looking for from IPOB.” The chairman of the International Society for Civil Liberties and Rule of Law, Emeka Umeagbalasi, who condemned the invasion, said, “We call on the Nigerian Government to stop this madness and crudity. He added, “By these crudities, the Nigerian Government is setting the country on fire the more. “Under Nigeria’s extant laws, applicable globally, Barr Ifeanyi Ejiofor and other licensed legal practitioners have the right and duty to represent and defend any citizen or citizens or national or nationals irrespective of the gravity of crime(s) alleged to have been committed. The security forces of Nigeria are hereby called upon to withdraw and discontinue their siege and follow due process. “If Barr Ifeanyi Ejiofor is legitimately wanted for any crime, due processes must be followed to the letter. This is more so when he called and informed the chief police officer in the area (ACP Afolabi) of his being around for weekend rest.” When contacted on the telephone, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Ikenga Tochukwu, said he had no details of the incident. He said, “Like you must have noticed, I have been on call since morning. I have been calling to confirm the incident. I have no details on the matter.”