DIRECTORS of the Department of State Services drawn from North-West geopolitical zone are currently brainstorming in Kaduna to reverse the troubling spate of insecurity occasioned by kidnapping, banditry and other related crimes in the zone. The 2nd quarterly meeting of the secret police is holding in the newly acquired DSS office complex located along Maj. Gen. Muhammadu Buhari Way (formerly WAFF road), Kaduna on Thursday. All the Directors of the agency from Kebbi, Kano, Kaduna, Jigawa, Katsina, Sokoto and Zamfara States were present at the meeting which was declared open by the Kaduna State Governor, Malam Nasir El-Rufai. In attendance were also heads of security agencies from the Army, Nigerian Air Force, Federal Road Safety Corps, the state Commissioner of Police, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Nigeria Customs Service, among other paramilitary agencies. Speaking while declaring the meeting open, El-Rufai said his administration’s priority was to keep the state safe from any form of security threats. To this end, the governor said the state government would continue to support and invest on security operatives for the protection of lives and property of the citizens of the state. According to him, the state government will acquire advanced technology like drones in confronting bandits across the state. El-Rufai said, “We have invested in drones, and we are investing in more drones, working with the Air Force and the SSS to see that these drones are deployed to provide additional intelligence. We are also building a forensic laboratory, to help the Police and other security agencies in crime detection and prevention.” Earlier in his welcome address, the Kaduna State DSS Director, Idris Koya, noted that the periodic meeting was originated by the DGSS, Alhaji Yusuf Bichi, to enable the state directors to regularly come together and brainstorm on the spate of insecurity in the North-West and exchange ideas on how to proffer solutions to it. In a goodwill message on behalf of other sister security agencies, the state Commissioner of Police, Umar Muri, said the quarterly meeting was coming at the right time when the zone was grappling with security challenges. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com