THE Christian Association of Nigeria, Ebonyi State Chapter, on Tuesday, called on the people of Enyigba community in the Abakaliki Local Government Area of the state and their neighbouring Enyibichiri in the Ikwo LGA to sheathe their swords and embrace peace. This was as CAN urged suspected warlords at Enyibichiri community, said to have allegedly abducted some Enyigba natives in the Abakaliki council, to release the abductees dead or alive. The two neighbouring communities have been at war for years over boundary matters, which claimed many lives and property. The Ebonyi State Government permanently resolved the crisis last year when it demarcated the disputed land. But there have renewed hostilities for the past two weeks in the areas with some little children, including breastfeeding mothers, allegedly abducted by suspected warlords while some lives were equally said to have been lost. Since the abduction, there has been tension in Abakaliki, the Ebonyi State capital, following alleged threat on Ikwo people by their Izzi counterparts to vacate the city. The PUNCH reports that Abakaliki was located on Izzi land and the people of the clan allegedly ordered every Ikwo people in the state capital to vacate the land. It was gathered that following the alleged threat, many Ikwo people left the city to their land. Consequently, the state Governor, Dave Umahi, held several meetings between the two warring clans with a view to returning normalcy to the communities. However, CAN in a communique, after its emergency meeting on the matter, signed by its Chairman, Rev. Fr. Abraham Nwali, regretted that the land dispute, which was long resolved with the Executive Order of the governor, reared its ugly head again. According to the communique, “CAN, therefore, is joining her words to the press release of His Excellency, where he gave Ikwo people (Enyibichiri) one week to make sure that these children are returned. “It is on that note that CAN is also making a special appeal to Enyibichiri and Ikwo people that long before the expiration of seven days, to let CAN know the whereabouts of these children concretely and verifiably, alive or dead, that we may intervene in giving the state government the report. “CAN, in conjunction with Ebonyi State Government, is also asking all the citizens of Ebonyi State and residents of Ebonyi State, to please, go about their normal businesses and all who have left the state in fear should all come back to Ebonyi State capital.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com