Vice Chancellor of Anchor University, Lagos, Professor Joseph Afolayan, tells Grace Edema that researchers must look beyond the government to fund quality research for development There have been criticisms against Nigerian universities for not engaging in qualitative research for development. What are your thoughts about that? Serious groundbreaking research requires time and funds. So, in Nigeria, if we want to do serious groundbreaking research, there must be financial support. However, such support comes in two ways, either at home from the individual universities or through competitive international grants. Of course, one must do research that has an applicable outcome. In other words, the findings of any research should be documented and applied for national development. In research, knowledge is important. There is what we call a researchable focus. People who want to engage in research must do very serious work by studying their environment to identify needs locally or globally. Research is to aim at a problem. To have groundbreaking research you must be touching originality by filling up a gap. It is more than a “copy-and-paste” kind of thing. So, if researchers seek originality, there would be a lot of groundbreaking activities and documentation. It is unfortunate that the system in Nigeria does not believe in itself. Attempts of researchers are not readily lauded. There is also the issue about lack of originality in research. Why is that so? If I would answer that concerning research activities in Nigeria, you know it depends on the people involved, I mean, those who want to do the research. If they understand the purpose of the research and why they do what they are doing, there would be a breakthrough. There is a general mentality in our system; everyone claims that things are hard and because things are hard, people automatically withdraw from putting in their best in whatever they do. In the academic environment, it is not too good to limit oneself to immediate environmental challenges, otherwise, nothing will be done. Challenges are to make us aspire to break from our comfort zone into areas where we can make an impact. Generally, people don’t want to break traditions. There are often complaints and agony. Like somebody said, “In Africa, we agonise a lot; we don’t organise.” So, if we can break the tradition of agonising and begin to organise ourselves, there would be a breakthrough. People should get out of their comfort zone and face challenges. In the world, no environment is 100 per cent. It’s just the activities of people and research that bring the comfort we think about. At least, the challenge of the COVID-19 pandemic has unveiled tangible breakthroughs. You talked about financial support or research and researchers in Nigerian universities lament over poor funding from the government. Is government funding a standard? In the industrialised world, people don’t wait for the government, rather they provoke the government through research output, which contributes to national development. I agree; there are fundamental challenges in Nigeria. My humble counsel is that we should compete for international research grants. We shouldn’t be afraid to compete with other researchers. At the end of the research, if our environment does not want to apply the findings, we can throw them open to the global market. There are places where people would key into our findings. That’s why there are outlets for publishing research findings. Standard research findings will contribute to knowledge when published in high-impact factor journals. We should not depend on the government alone. There appears to be a lack of trust in Nigerian research. Why is that so? I understand. There is the general mentality that anything that is ours, doesn’t have originality. We don’t believe in ourselves. I remember a joke that a professor was airborne and during a slight storm, somebody told him that the aircraft was designed by one of his former students. He replied that he was comfortable in the aircraft because he knew that the one designed by his student could not attempt a flight. In other words, he did not mentor the students to have the capacity to do that. Our country would get to a point where the government would believe in what academic people can do if we begin to do our research ourselves and confidently present our findings. Things are changing. For your information, within Nigerian universities, some individuals who are IT experts have developed software for checkmating plagiarism. I attended the launch. Things are happening; it is a question of time. Today, you and I know that the general belief is that if you don’t have money, you are not recognised in Nigeria. Money is not everything. Even some secondary school students have good ideas; they only need encouragement to make great things happen. Let me tell you this; at Anchor University, we are currently in a competition called STIC – Science and Technology Innovation Challenge. It is the first of its kind in Nigeria. By the grace of God, Anchor University has one of the best projects that have gone through different stages of assessment to the semi-final of the competition. Who are those involved? There are two of our students from the Faculty of Science and Science Education on alternative energy. Under a faculty guide, they are working on a fuelless, noiseless, green energy generator. Recently, we visited one of our collaborating universities in Germany. At that university, the mode of training is from industry to the class or laboratory and vice versa. The university liaises with the industries to tackle their challenges and in the process, the students have their training. Consequently, there are proofs of the industrial revolution in that country. The university recently had its fifth matriculation. How would you assess the journey since it began academic activities in 2017? By the grace of God, Anchor University has a very clear vision and mission statements, and I want to say that we are on course. We started academic activities in February, 2017, and our pioneer students graduated last year, and look forward to our maiden convocation shortly. Since we started, we have never gone on strike, and so our academic calendars are run as planned. In spite of the challenge of the COVID-19 pandemic, we went through the 2019/2020 academic session successfully because we converted from regular lecture mode to virtual classrooms. We have also advanced our internationalisation through collaborations and linkages. Feedbacks from industries on our students after their industrial Training have been very encouraging. No doubt, our students can now believe that they are specially created for excellence. Both staff members and students have been exposed to the concepts of outcome-based education. Besides, there are attestations to the spiritual transformation of lives. God has also helped us with staff development. We have been able to support our staff at conferences locally and internationally. A few of them who still pursue their Ph.D. programmes are also financially supported. What is your reaction to the rising insecurity in the country, especially as students have become the target of abductors? It is a very sensitive issue. It is all about the problem of the heart of man. Coincidentally, we had a fellowship and I had the opportunity to minister on that. To act right, the heart must be right. People who cause a threat to other lives are human beings like us, it is just because they have problems with their hearts. So, whether it is in the South or North or anywhere, where people with animalistic nature are not transformed, a change may be difficult. But God can transform any man’s heart. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com