The Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, on Thursday faulted the calls for rotational presidency, describing it as an outdated system. Bello spoke at the Presidential Villa, Abuja while addressing State House Correspondents after a meeting he had with the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) He also said he would consider the calls from Nigerians and run for Presidency come 2023. He stressed the need for Nigerians to put high premium on virtues such as competence and capacity when electing the next president. He said, “For once let’s get Nigeria fixed. We have practised seemingly rotational presidencies since 1999 to date. Let us evaluate our successes or achievements from this seeming rotational presidency between then and now. “Why don’t we simply go for the best? “After all, we copy this democracy from America and some of the developed world. How many of these countries are practising traditional presidency? “You see, we are where we are today not because we are practicing rotational Presidency. If you want to go by that rotational presidency, then do perfect zoning. Go by perfect rotation. And if you go by rotation and whichever way you come from, I don’t think you should exclude where I come from. That’s number one. “Number two; let us get a credible, sincere, patriotic Nigerian to fix it. “If you’re flying an aircraft, you don’t ask who the pilot is. If you undergo a surgery in a hospital, you wouldn’t ask which doctor is this, is he from your zone, your tribe, your religion, all you want is the best pilot to fly you safely to your destination. “All you want is the best doctor to handle you and deliver you safely from the operation. “I think Nigeria is at that point now of seeking the best from anywhere in this country, irrespective of where he comes from. Thereafter, you remain in a position to reflect equity, fairness and justice. That is my position.” When asked how he hopes to address the South-East people, who were demanding the presidential seat to support him, Bello replied, “Like I said, when the time comes, and when God gives us the grace. And we’ll get there by the grace of God. “Surely, I am an advocate of who can serve this country the best.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com