Nigerian pop singer, Olamide, is on the verge of releasing his next studio album, Uy Scuti, and to whet the appetite of his teeming fans, the singer released the song, Rock. Although the song was released some weeks back, it maintains the number two spot on the Top 100: Nigeria Apple Music chart. More so, the song has a mass appeal among revellers around the world and has found its way to the number nine spot on the Top Triller Global chart. For those who do not know the meaning of Uy Scuti, it is a red supergiant star in the constellation Scutum. It is considered one of the largest known stars by radius and is also a pulsating variable star, with a maximum brightness of magnitude 8.29 and a minimum of magnitude 10.56. It has an estimated radius of 1,708 solar radii (1.188×109 kilometres; 7.94 astronomical units), thus a volume nearly five billion times that of the Sun. It is approximately 2.9 kiloparsecs (9,500 light-years) from Earth. If placed at the centre of the Solar System, its photosphere would at least engulf the orbit of Jupiter. Currently, the singer is trending at the number two spot in the Nigerian Twitter space with over 34,000 tweets. Speaking on the rap artiste’s forthcoming album, popular social media influencer, JJ Omojuwa, said, “If you know the meaning of ‘Uy Scuti’, you’d understand that as the greatest rapper of the last decade goes, no star’s bigger than Olamide. “Twitter, especially, allows for triggering posts to get attention; but when that gives way to rationality, there’s no debating it.” Another Twitter user, Ayodeji, via his handle @AyoJaguda, wrote, “Olamide is the rap artiste of the decade, if you have a problem let me know.” Also, @Klassique_YBNL believes that the iconic rapper has been a major influence in the entertainment industry since 2012. He said, “Olamide influenced all these artistes to start running their own label. Man created his barely 2 years into his career in 2012. His success makes them followed suit. He started December yearly show ‘OLIC’ 2014. Started the culture of yearly album since 2011. Influencer toh bad.” (sic)