In recent times, a particular ‘song’ has been trending on social media, especially Instagram. The freestyle song titled, ‘Sedibalabala’, talks about ladies who only look beautiful at night after taking their bath and going out. Ever since the song surfaced online, many have used it to record video skits. In an interview with Saturday Beats, the brains behind the song— a hype man, Damilare Shokunbi, aka Bobby Banks, and Bazil Ayobamidele, aka DJ Basplit— noted that it was inspired by girls who only had their bath at night. Bobby Banks told our correspondent, “While working as a hype man at a hotel in Mushin, Lagos, I had the opportunity to ‘mingle’ with some girls that worked there. I realised that they usually did not take their bath during the day, but in the evening. (That was what inspired the freestyle). I am so happy about the fact that it has now gone viral. I never thought it would go this far but thanks to the Almighty.” DJ Basplit, also noted that he was surprised the freestyle had become so popular. He said, “It is actually not a song. It was from a mixtape I did with Bobby Banks titled, ‘The Verified Mixtape’. However, it seems it’s just the 13-second freestyle by Banks that people like. So, we cut out that part and made it available for people to dance to. We honestly did not expect it to go viral. “However, since it went viral, I have got more attention from fans who like it. I plan to release another mixtape as a follow-up to ‘Sedibalabala’, so that the buzz can continue.” Meanwhile, Banks noted that though being a full-time artiste was not in his plans, he hoped to work with industry heavyweights. He added, “I see myself working with known names in the entertainment industry, such as Olamide, who is my mentor.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com