THE recent abduction of 136 pupils of the Salihu Tanko Islamiyya School in Tegina, Rafi Local Government Area of Niger State by bandits, has deepened an ominous dimension regarding the worsening security challenges in the country. Unrelented, daring criminals armed with assorted weapons continue to wreak havoc in the North, kidnapping pupils and turning states to killing fields while the state governments appear insuppressibly helpless. The official response has always been tepid and hinged on a rebuff of ransom payment. In Kaduna State, where bandits abducted some students of a private university, Greenfield University, parents reportedly coughed up N180 million and eight brand new motorcycles demanded by the criminals to secure their children’s release. The bandits had earlier killed some of the victims to send a strong message that they were unfeeling and meant business. Apart from the ubiquitous killer Fulani herders, there are several terrorist groups active in the same region. These include Jamaat Nusrat al-Islam wal Muslimeen, Islamic State West Africa, Islamic State Greater Sahara, al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, al Murabitoun, Ansar Dine and Boko Haram. These groups can carry out attacks and kidnaps over long distances. Kidnapping for ransom is the primary source of finance for JNIM. Criminal gangs also carry out kidnapping for terrorist groups in return for financial rewards. From Zamfara, Katsina, Kaduna to Niger states, bandits’ reign of impunity is extreme. They kill, maim and abduct, seemingly emboldened by governments’ helpless rhetoric and bland grandstanding. Insurgents had also invaded schools in Borno and Yobe in the North-East with the effects still reverberating on the country’s psyche. To reverse the ugly trend, governors in the North need to urgently collaborate to end the spate of abductions in the region. The security situation in the region has spiked, and further delay in restoring peace may paralyse developments in the region. The reality today is that a central policing system has failed woefully with its inadequate manpower, poor funding, outmoded operations and politicisation. A new, bottom-up security strategy aimed at tackling the issue headlong cannot be overlooked at this time that bandits have turned kidnapping-for-ransom to a lucrative industry. A sub-national community security strategy, which would absorb people at the grassroots, is desirable to halt the festering criminal activities threatening to bring the region to its knees. Immediate action is needed to inspire and encourage pupils to embrace schooling in a region that accounts for 80 per cent of the 13.2 million out-of-school children in the country, according to the Universal Basic Education Commission and UNICEF. After the recent abduction in Niger, the state Deputy Governor, Ahmed Ketso, said the government was doing its best to ensure the safe return of the pupils, noting that it donated 89 operational vehicles, 283 operational motorcycles, 30 bicycles, four tricycles to security agents and funded security groups in the state such as Karamin Goro, Sharan Daji, Girgizan Daji, Gama Aiki, Ayem Akpatuma I & II, Puff Adder I & II. The step is striking, but the state should look in the direction of stepping up support for the conventional police, establishing a joint civilian task force to be populated by locals to promote strategic thinking and initiating covert operations to combat banditry. There must be effective intelligence gathering to monitor and pre-empt the criminals. Security is a continuous process, and it is for this reason that the state should further collaborate with neighbouring states to flush out bandits, including those hibernating in its unmanned forests. It is time for governors in the region to plan a security summit to address the burgeoning criminal activities there. Vast forests in the North known to be harbouring bandits should be heavily bombarded by combined security forces to eject criminal elements and the exercise must not be a one-off action. No state in the region can afford to sit on the fence at this time as forests in the zone have become the operational bases and hideouts for bandits. The situation of banditry in schools in the North has attained a level that state actors and concerned stakeholders can no longer delay in taking joint, decisive action to exterminate it. This much was asserted by the National Commandant of the Peace Corps of Nigeria, Dickson Akoh, who said the organisation would continue to deploy personnel to protect schools against bandits. Akoh noted that 1,179 students have been abducted in seven years in Nigeria. He said, “The sustained and repressive attacks by way of invasion, killings, pillaging, kidnapping for ransom and rape by bandits on educational institutions, especially secondary schools in parts of the country, which is getting to its peak, deserves the immediate attention and action by all relevant institutions of government, social organisations and people of goodwill to address headlong.” Useful lessons could be learnt from the experiences of other countries that have effectively tackled the kidnapping epidemic. In the early 1970s, Colombia was in the throes of kidnappings for ransom promoted by guerrilla movements such as M-19, Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, and the National Liberation Army. The criminal acts turned the South American country into the world’s kidnapping hotspot. To combat the menace, the government raised a strong counter-kidnapping force. Some of the kidnappers were also extradited to the United States to face criminal charges. To curb kidnapping, the Northern states should collaboratively deploy the law and force against sundry bandits in the region. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com