THE Governor of Kebbi State, Atiku Bagudu, on Wednesday evening met with the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), over the security challenges facing his state. The meeting was held at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on the same day the governor met separately with the Chief of Staff to the President, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari. Bagudu told State House correspondents that the meeting centred on the recent boat mishap in the state and security challenges. He said, “I met with Mr President to brief him, among others, on some security issues relating to my state because about two weeks ago, there was a boat accident that claimed a number of lives. “Mr President promptly issued a statement and sent condolence messages and support. I appreciated him on behalf of the people of Kebbi State. “Also, just last week, there was an unfortunate attack by bandits from neighbouring states that killed a number of people in Kebbi State. He (Buhari) promptly directed security agencies to investigate and support us more in dealing with the situation. He said although local security agencies and the Federal Government were doing their part to ensure security in the state; more support was needed from local communities. “Sometimes, they get risk reports that 500 people are coming to attack and maybe the local DPO can only mobilise 20 people; already, that confronts him with a challenge. “So, they need truthful information. They need synergy with vigilante groups and community groups so that they can continue to respond more appropriately. “The government will never be able to provide enough. Much is being done, but it will never be enough for communities. I’m sure, in all communities, there are people who can support the police.” Bagudu said he was in talks with the Federal Government to provide bags of fertilizer to farmers in his state for as low as N5,000 per bag as the planting season approached. He said, “The Presidential Fertilizer Initiative has been complicated by the changes in the exchange rate. When it was started about four years ago, the official exchange rate was N305 to $1. Now, the official exchange rate is about $400, which is close to a 25 per cent increase. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com