The Day of the African Child is commemorated every June 16 by member states of the African Union. It celebrates African children and calls for serious introspection and commitment towards addressing the numerous challenges facing children across the continent. The theme of DAC 2021 is, “30 years after the adoption of the Charter: Accelerate implementation of Agenda 2040 for an African fit for Children.” Tailored to meet regional specificities, the African Charter on the Rights and Welfare of the Child (Charter) was adopted in 1990 by the Organisation of African Unity (OAU now AU). Nigeria is a signatory. In 2016, the monitoring body established by the Charter, the African Committee of Experts on the Rights and Welfare of the Child adopted “Agenda 2040: Fostering an Africa fit for Children” to provide a 25-year agenda for the long-term and strategic progress in implementing children’s rights in Africa. Consequently, there are ten aspirations guiding Agenda 2040. However, this write-up critically examines aspiration six, “every child benefits fully from quality education.”Relatedly, are Nigerian children benefiting and how can they access ‘quality’ education? Presently, one in every five of the world’s out-of-school children is in Nigeria. About 10.5 million children of ages 5-14 years are not in school. Only 61 per cent of 6-11-year-olds regularly attend primary schools. In the North-Eastern and North-Western states, 29 per cent and 35 per cent of Muslim children, respectively, receive Qur’anic education, which does not include basic skills such as literacy and numeracy.(UNICEF, 2021). Two out of three children do not have access to early childhood education; primary school completion rate is 63 per cent, only 49 per cent proceed to secondary education; gender parity in primary school is 1.0 per cent in primary schools but 0.97 per cent in secondary schools; Almajiri education programme has been jettisoned; abduction of school children in Zamfara, Katsina, Jigawa, Niger and Kaduna states, amongst others (EDUCELEB.com, Ogunniran Iyabode “Legal Perspectives on the Educational Rights of the Girl-Child and Development Issues in Nigeria”, 2007). The COVID-19 pandemic further widens the gap between access to education in rural and urban areas of the country. It sharpens and deepens the digital divide in the Nigerian educational system. Granted the importance of education in enhancing total child development, there is a need for urgent solutions. As a researcher in Child Law for over a decade, this year’s DAC presents an opportunity to propose certain prognoses that will allow Nigerian children benefit from quality education. The first is conceiving education for children from a human rights perspective. This allows the country to actualise access to ‘quality’ education. Article 11 of the Charter states, “Every child shall have a right to education…it shall be directed to the promotion of the child’s personality, talent, mental and physical abilities to their fullest potential. Hence, State Parties shall take appropriate measures by providing for free and compulsory basic education (Articles 28 and 29 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child) (CRC, Nigeria is a signatory). The Committee on the Rights of the Child points out that Article 29 emphasises the message of a child-centred education; that the key goal of education is the development of the individual’s child personality, talents and abilities, in recognition of the fact that every child has unique characteristics, interests, abilities and learning needs (General Comment No 1, 2001). Similar to the Charter, the Nigerian Child Rights’ Act 2003 obligates the government to provide free, compulsory and universal basis education to every child. Every parent or guardian shall ensure that his child or ward attends and completes primary and junior secondary education, (Section 15). The CRA was an adaptation of the CRC and the Charter. Due to customary and religious impediments, it was enacted for the Federal Capital Territory through Section 299 of the Constitution. Today, about 24 states have adopted it as their Child Rights Laws.  In this writer’s view, it is just sacrosanct for such states to provide an environment that guarantees access and the quality of education that develop the child’s full potential. For the remaining 12 states, the adoption of the CRA is the starting point for the right to education. The second proposition is the enforcement of the right in the Nigerian courts. Though the Nigerian Constitution provides for educational objectives as equal and adequate educational opportunities at all levels…free, compulsory and universal primary education and free secondary education (Section 18, 1999); the non-justiciability mantra in Chapter II that contains Section 18 has made it non-enforceable in the courts. Hence, over the years, through the 1979 to the present 1999 Constitution, right to education remains a mirage for Nigerian children. However, in 2002, the Nigerian Supreme Court in AG Ondo State v AG Federation held that Chapter II is under the Exclusive Legislative List and the National Assembly can give expression to it through appropriate enactment. Finally, in 2017, a Federal High Court relied heavily on the above Supreme Court decision. In Legal Defence and Assistance Project (LEDAP) GTE & Ltd v Federal Ministry of Education & Anor, the court held that the National Assembly enacted the Compulsory, Free Universal Basic Education Act (UBE) 2004 based on the provisions of Section 18 (1) & (3) of the 1999 Constitution. Section 2 (1) of the UBE Act states that ‘every government in Nigeria shall provide free, compulsory and universal basic education for every child of primary and junior secondary school age.’ Therefore, the provision has become justiciable by the courts. In other words, the right to basic education has been activated through the UBE Act. This writer agrees with the reasoning of the court, every Nigerian child has the right to basic education. One looks forward to the Supreme Court pronouncement on this in the nearest future. Thirdly is the increase in the budgetary allocation for education. The right to education is a social right that requires huge finance to actualise it. Sadly and worriedly, even in the present Fourth Republic (since 1999), paltry amounts have always been budgeted for education. In fact, in the 2021 Budget, out of N13.08 trillion, a paltry N771, 461, 372 billion, about six per cent was earmarked for education (Budget Office). Against this backdrop, it becomes difficult to embark upon new strategies in the educational system. This can be compared to the Lagos State proposed 2021 Budget, out of N1.164 trillion, education got the second largest share, N146 billion.  According to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, “we must improve the standard of our education outcome to our industries. We will work with our local governments to strengthen early child education and teachers training, leveraging technology” (Business Traffic). States must devote substantial allocation to education if we must position our children for global education which is technology-driven, qualitative and relevant. Finally, in the educational system, we need to support innovation; prevent rural/urban as well as digital divide; include the disadvantaged-those in Internally Displaced Persons and refugees camps, aim to use technology designed with an understanding of local needs and local context and strengthen institutional capacity.  This is paramount so that the Nigerian children will be part holder in the future of the world. Moreover, education is simply the soul of a society as it passes from one generation to the other (G.K. Chesterton). Dr Ogunniran is an Associate Professor, Department of Public Law, Faculty of Law, University of Lagos. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com