CEO, Applied Services Limited, Mr Abayomi Erogbogbo, has said that the Lagos State Government Education Management Systems will help provide quality data management for school administration and education sector governance. Erogbogbo who is the inventor of LASGEMS said he was optimistic that Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu would rise above bureaucratic impediments and push for the statutory LASGEMS continuity. “From the statutory functions, the benefits are lifetime that would outlive all of us as sustainably implemented from 2005/2006. Prudent management from first collaborative external examination registration activated for government public school WASSCE candidates and significantly reduced annual sponsored from over 110,000 to less than 47,000. Average of N500m saved annually, over N4bn in nine years from 2007 until abruptly suspended in 2016. Improvement in public school WASSCE results by blocking repeaters, less of distractions. Improve discipline, students will no longer be invisible to government and school managers, same with age limit events and sport competitors.” He explained that a major benefit of LASGEMS to private schools was its ability to minimise school fees debts through seamless controlled student transfer management. “A major benefit to private schools is the ability to minimise school fees debts through seamless controlled student transfer management and admissions ensuring safe investments. The two schools involved will process the student request and approval transactions online real-time in compliance with statutory requirement.” He also spoke about the reluctance of the Lagos State Government over the utilisation of LASGEMS, “The reluctance is disturbing in view of being blessed with more informed leadership team. The administration laments dearth of data, yet LASGEMS legacy solutions remain on hold. At a loss with the intentions, may be playing on time again.” “I am optimistic that Sanwo-Olu will rise above bureaucratic impediments and push for the statutory LASGEMS continuity considering exposed facts of last two years, some given under oath. “The buck stops with Mr Governor to allow for fairness and amicable solutions since the contractual arbitration option has been tactically frustrated by the new ministry of justice leadership that amazingly believes in mainly defending sister ministries above other considerations, and the arbitral tribunal reference closed.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com