A report by GlobalData placed Nigeria as third highest in urea capacity additions with the launch of the Dangote Fertiliser plant. According to a statement by Dangote Industries, the report titled “Global urea capacity additions by 2030” said the plant would also increase world urea capacity from 222.96 million tonnes per annum in 2020 to 305.92 million tonnes per annum in 2030, a total growth of 37 per cent. The report disclosed that Nigeria’s total capacity would increase to 11.58 million tonnes per annum by 2020. It was quoted as saying, “Major capacity additions will be from two planned plants Dangote Group Lekki Urea Plant 1 and Dangote Group Lekki Urea Plant 2 with a capacity of 1.50 million tonnes per annum each by 2030.” A professor in the African- American Studies department at Hunter College, United States,  Ehiedu Iweriebor, said that the plant, a component of the refinery and petrochemical complex, had become a national, continental and global game changer. He was quoted as saying, “For Nigeria, it provides it with the first hard manufactured product on a large scale to the World, for the African, North and South American market. “At least, for the first time in our life time, we will be exporting petroleum products.  We will also see Nigeria for the first time exporting fertiliser rather than using hard-earned foreign exchange to import fertiliser. Iweriebor described the fertiliser plant as a pan-African global setting event. “The continent through the actions of the visionary and audacious son of African, Aliko Dangote industrial  Nigeria-Africa is finally emergent,” he added. Dangote Industries Limited’s Group Executive Director, Strategy, Capital Projects & Portfolio Development, Devakumar Edwin had been reported by the PUNCH as saying that plant could produce 4500 tonnes of Urea daily and also cover local demand with enough for export. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com