The Senior Pastor of Synagogue Church of All Nations, Temitope Balogun Joshua, died on Saturday at the age of 57. Though the cause of his death was not revealed, here are some things you should know about the Pastor. Early life TB Joshua hails from Arigidi Akoko in Ondo State. He was born on June 12, 1963. Information on his church website revealed that he was in his mother’s womb for 15 months before he was born. Joshua attended St. Stephen Anglican Primary School, Ikare-Akoko, Nigeria, from 1971-1977. He dropped out of secondary school in his first year to work at a poultry farm. According to the SCOAN website, he was referred to as ‘small pastor’ while in school due to his love for the Bible and how he could predict future happenings in the community. He was also the leader of the Scripture Union while in school. Family He got married to Evelyn Joshua in 1990 and she had been instrumental in his ministry. Evelyn, in an interview, revealed that the pastor proposed to her 45 minutes into their first meeting. Joshua and his wife have three daughters. Their first child, Serah, attended the London School of Economics and in 2015, she was called to the bar in Nigeria. As of last year, their second daughter, Promise, was studying International Relations and Politics at the London School of Economics. Ministry He founded the Synagogue Church in 1987. The church, which has its headquarters in Lagos State, accommodates over 15,000 worshippers per gathering. The church currently has branches in Ghana, the United Kingdom, South Africa and Greece. Wealth TB Joshua is one of its richest Pastors in Nigeria. In 2011, a Forbes contributor declared that he was the third-richest Pastor in Nigeria with an estimated net worth of over $15m. Philanthropy TB Joshua is well known for his giving ability as he is involved in many humanitarian projects around the world. After the Haiti earthquake in 2010, the Pastor established a field hospital known as ‘Clinique Emmanuel’. He sent humanitarian workers and medical personnel to the affected areas. He also sent support to India, Ghana and the Philippines during national disasters. Community Development In 2009, the late cleric started a football club known as ‘My People FC’ as part of his efforts to help youths in the community. Two members of the team — Sani Emmanuel and Ogenyi Onazi —played with the Nigeria Golden Eaglets at the 2009 FIFA U-17 World Cup. Three players from the team also got sponsorship abroad to play professional football in Sweden. In the Akoko area of Ondo State, TB Joshua donated over N26m towards restoring electricity. He is also known to have made large donations to the Police force in Nigeria, Ghana, and Colombia.