The wife of the Odogwu (warlord) of Ogwash-Uku Kingdom was allegedly stripped naked and raped by community youths over a chieftaincy tussle. PUNCH Metro gathered that three houses, livestock, farm and two vehicles, all worth over N500m and belonging to the Odogwu, Chief Gabriel Ohai, were set ablaze, while other properties were looted. The incident, which happened on Saturday, was said to have left over 12 persons with varying degrees of injury and rendered the Odogwu and his family homeless. Narrating his ordeal to our correspondent in Asaba on Monday, Gabriel lamented the lawlessness and impunity in the community. He said, “The police came to re-arrest one Ikechukwu Illoba, who led hoodlums to beat a 75-year-old man to death, after the autopsy result. “The suspect raised the alarm and called his cohorts; and as early as 6am, they had already converged before the arrival of policemen and resisted his re-arrest. “Immediately the police left, the hoodlums moved to my house, pulled down my gate and fence, and proceeded to my palace, set my house ablaze, stripped my wife naked, raped her, burnt down two of my vehicles and moved to my farm, which is about 20 kilometres away from where I live, and set the building there ablaze. “My workers’ quarters were also burnt down; my livestock of over 3,000 birds, 100 pigs and others were released into the forest. The farm was completely destroyed; some of my properties were looted and others set ablaze. “It has become imperative for me to talk to the world, the government and human rights organisations to know what I am passing through in the hands of those who are above the law.” While he fingered one of the community’s chiefs as the architect of his ordeal, Gabriel also blamed the police for complicity in the matter. An Azungwu youth, who spoke to our correspondent on condition of anonymity, confirmed the destruction in the community. He said the Odogwu’s personal houses and farm were set ablaze by irate youths loyal to a rival chief. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Bright Edafe, confirmed the incident. He said, “It is true; it is like they wanted to kill the chief. The DPO, Ogwashi, said he was the one, who rescued the chief from the youth. “It is about a murder case; the police went for an arrest, but the youth resisted and in the process, they started destroying the Odogwu’s property. It is unfortunate” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com