For a very long time, Nigeria did not have any structured response to the waste crisis in the country. With our population increasing in quantum leaps, the environment is daily inundated with the weight of waste materials emanating from the activities of the citizens. While other forward-looking nations were already converting their waste to wealth, we cowered under the odorous invasion of our own rubbish. Nevertheless, in July last year, the Federal Executive Council approved a Solid Waste Management Policy for the country. Intended to improve cleanliness across the country and facilitate the conversion of waste to wealth, the policy would, however, not amount to anything if there was no implementable strategy through which the federal, state and local governments, institutions, non-governmental organisations, Ministries, Departments and Agencies, would comprehensively participate. It is in order to achieve this that the Federal Ministry of Environment in conjunction with the United Nations Development Organisation embarked on the development of a National Solid Waste Management Policy to guide effective, sustainable, socially acceptable, environmentally safe and sound management of solid waste in Nigeria. The document was presented to the nation on May 10, 2021. With the way our environment is deteriorating, one needs no expert knowledge to understand that we need to work very fast in the implementation of this new policy document. Solid waste is currently one of the fasted growing waste streams in the world. When they are left unutilised, they become a menace. But when they are managed and creatively deployed, they become immense value-adding resource. Thus, managing solid waste has become an important concern in both domestic and international material cycles, for environmental preservation, efficient resource utilisation and sustainable development. In Nigeria, like many other nations, we are faced with gross environmental problems and solid waste stands as one of the major challenges. Environmental experts are in agreement that solid waste generation has consistently expanded both in volume and complexity due to the rapid increase in population over the years, socio-economic development, industrialisation, technology advancements, changing lifestyles and consumption patterns. Sadly, these developments have not been matched by adequate provisions which include funding and infrastructural facilities to substantially manage this ever growing quantum of waste. Consequently, this has led to poor state of our environment, as all manner of wastes clog our drainage, litter our streets, highways, marketplaces, water bodies, public places and in fact most open places. Open and indiscriminate burning of hazardous and non-hazardous solid wastes as a disposal method, is still a common practice among the citizenry. For instance, any environmentally conscious Nigerian would be saddened at the sight of billowing smokes that emanate from abattoirs all over the nation. Such centres have become polluting hubs instead of eco-stewardship centres. There is a combination of air, water and land pollutions. Meanwhile, these are resources that would have been used to create wealth and increase the green capacity of young Nigerians. Therefore, the need to address the menace and challenges and reverse the trend informed the production of the National Policy on Waste Management, which is intended to provide comprehensive framework for sustainable waste management in the country. The policy is aimed to promote a clean and healthy environment for sustainable socio-economic development of the nation. It is also targeted at reducing and eventually eliminating heaps of solid waste in our cities and rural communities; thereby enabling the reduction in associated public health problems. It will also help in the development of waste management infrastructure, promote private sector investments in solid waste management, promote the Reuse, Reduce, Recycle and Recovery Initiative, resort and conserve natural resources, and create wealth and employment from waste management. It is also instructive to look at the legal backing for this policy, as it will determine the scope and speed of its implementation. Part II of the Second Schedule of the Nigerian Constitution has waste management as “Concurrent Legislation” – which means that the Federal Government, the states, as well as the Local Government Councils are empowered to legislate on waste. Hence, there are several pieces of federal legislation (Acts and Regulations) at the federal level, State and Federal Capital Territory laws and regulations promulgated by their respective Houses of Assembly, and Bye-Laws’ governing waste management at the local government authorities level. The task of municipal refuse management constitutionally lies with the local government authorities, but it is expected that their activities should be guided by a national policy on solid waste management. We have an advantage with our population and daily pool of waste. With a population now in excess of 200 million, Nigeria produces a large volume of solid waste out of which less than 20% is collected through a formal system. Sadly, our waste is being wasted because the existing solid waste management system is affected by economic, institutional, legislative, technical and operational constraints. What is waste? The Basel Convention (on the transboundary movement of toxic and hazardous wastes, adopted by the world in 1989) defines wastes as “substances or objects, which are disposed of or are intended to be disposed of, or are required to be disposed of, by the provisions of national law”. According to the United Nations Environmental Programme, this includes substances or objects which are subject to disposal operations which either lead to or do not lead to the possibility of resource recovery, recycling, reclamation, direct re-use or alternative. Municipal solid waste are wastes generated by households, and wastes of a similar nature generated by commercial and industrial premises, by institutions such as schools, hospitals, care homes and prisons, and from public spaces such as streets, markets, slaughter houses, public toilets, bus stops, parks, and gardens. This effectively includes most commercial and business wastes with the exception of wastes from industrial processes and other hazardous wastes. Solid waste covers a host of biodegradable and non-biodegradable unwanted/used materials in a solid and semi-solid state that includes forms of household waste, refuse, construction and demolition debris, garbage, electronic waste, sludge from waste treatment plant, and other discarded materials including solids, semisolids resulting from industrial, commercial, mining and agricultural operations and from community activities. A majority of these substances are composes of paper, organic matter, plastics, metals, textiles, rubber and glass. Notably, plastics, glass and most metals that make up fractions of these wastes are non-biodegradable and thus remain a persistent problem in the environment for years. Plastic is the most common in this category; and this is why the government has developed a separate Waste Management Policy for plastic waste. I shall dwell on this in next week’s column. Now that we have a national policy, the onus is now on the critical stakeholders to translate it to action. However, in doing this, the Federal Government must integrate past gains and experiences. For instance, Lagos State has a robust solid waste management system, which was once a shining light in the whole African region. In my opinion, the policy now affords us the opportunity to streamline all efforts towards a national success story. In every corner of the country are wastes of various hues and forms. When these resources are properly managed, they can be harnessed to create job opportunities and promote growth in Gross Domestic Product through wealth generation mechanisms, in addition to making our environment cleaner and appealing. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com