•B’Haram were recruiting people with N5,000, gov says Borno State Governor, Prof Babagana Zulum, has said there is the need to continue fighting poverty in the country, lamenting that some people were recruited into the Boko Haram terrorist group with just N5,000. Speaking on Saturday during the Democracy Day celebration and second anniversary of his government, Zulum said he had recognised that no plan would succeed when hundreds of thousands of people, especially those displaced by insurgents, were still living in hunger and indignity. “We have seen instances where insurgents offered as low as between N5,000 and N10,000 to recruit some spies and weapons smugglers,” he said. The governor said this made his administration to regularly visit internally displaced persons at all camps in the state to deliver food, cash and clothing. He said, “We needed to ensure that our good citizens had the support they needed, and they were not exposed to potential attractions for the incentives of insurgents. “There was the risk that insurgents could, after making IDPs socially and economically vulnerable, also explore that vulnerability by offering food and cash incentives to recruit fighters who could even serve as their spies in communities.” On his achievements so far in office, Zulum said his government had delivered 556 capital projects, 70 per cent of which had been completed while 30 per cent were still at various completion levels. Meanwhile, the chairman of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party in Borno State, Usman Mahdi, while assessing Zulum’s two years in office, questioned the rationale of resettling displaced people back in villages and communities where their safety could not be guaranteed. Mahdi said without security, the resettled locals could easily be recruited by Boko Haram. He said, “How could they resettle these poor people to these communities when they know very well that these places are not safe for habitation? “I expected the state government to ensure the terrorists are cleared from the destroyed communities first before resettling the people. “Rather than returning the IDPs to their ancestral homes, the government should have supported the military and all security formations operational in the counterinsurgency war with logistics that would help in clearing the insurgents from the communities. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com