A former Ambassador to Russia and Belarus, Assam Assam, (SAN), has petitioned the Federal Government, seeking equity, fairness and justice in the composition of the new board of the Niger Delta Development Commission. In a three-paragraph petition to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), addressed to the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, and copied to the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, the former envoy kicked against the nomination, alleging that two brothers from the same ethnic community were nominated for the board. He, therefore, demanded fair and equitable distribution of the positions to accommodate Eket, which he said, remained a major oil community in Akwa Ibom. The petition titled, ‘Nomination of two members for the NDDC Board from Oron Ethnic Nationality: A case of skewed political manoeuvring by the Minister of Niger Delta Affair’ was made available to our correspondent on Monday. “We are under the instruction of the entire Ekid nation comprising the traditional rulers, youths, women of the four local government areas of Eket, Onna, Esit Eket and Ibeno, to draw your attention, as the Chief Adviser to Mr President to the skewed nomination of by the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, of two blood brothers from the same ethnic community, as statutory members for the NDDC Board,” part of the petition read. The former envoy, who said he endorsed the nomination of the current Sole Administrator, Mr. Effiong Akwa, for acquitting himself so far in managing the Commission, however, urged the President to ensure the position of the state Commissioner be allowed to evolve to Eket. In the same vein, a civil society organisation, the Network Advancement Programme for Poverty and Disaster Management, petitioned President Buhari, urging him to follow the path of justice, equity and fair play by allowing Eket LGA to have the slot. The organisation’s President, Al-Mustapha Edoho and Secretary, Kinsley Ufang, in a separate petition letter to Buhari, copied to the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, threatened to take the matter to court if the anomaly was not corrected before the nominees appear before the National Assembly for clearance. Responding, the Press Secretary to the Minister of the Niger Delta Affairs, Mr Jackson Udom, said he had not seen the list of the nominees and could not react to hearsays.