The All Progressives Congress in Ekiti State has suspended two of its members for allegedly supporting the South West Agenda for 2023, a political platform that is behind the presidential aspiration of a former Governor of Lagos,‌ ‌Asiwaju‌ ‌Bola‌ ‌Ahmed‌ ‌Tinubu. The duo, Kayode Adetifa and Jide Oso, who were APC members in Ward 9, Owaye Quarters, in Ayede Ekiti in the Oye Local Government Area of the state, were shown the exit door by the party leadership in the council. The suspension letters, dated May 31 and issued separately to the duo, were signed by the ward executives, including Abejide Sola (Chairman), Bamisayo Abigael (Women Leader), Oladipo Adekunle (Youth Leader), Fayemi Apeke (Secretary), and Oloruntoba Bosede (Treasurer). It read in part, “We noted from your activities in the party in the recent past that you have been working against the unity of the party even to the extent of creating a parallel ward that you named “SWAGA” within the ward. “You sent in confirmation of your action through Mr Jide Oso, a former ward chairman on 16th May 2021 to the ward that you have created another venue for this purpose. “You were invited to the general executive and leaders’ meeting on 20th May 2021 to explain your action and you confirmed that the message was sent by you and that you would not stop your parallel meeting for any reason. “In view of the above reasons the general executive of the ward met 27th May 2021 and decided to suspend you for running against the APC Constitution till further notice.” APC Publicity Secretary, Ade Ajayi, said the two “were not suspended because of SWAGA, but they have been dividing the party and all efforts to rein them in failed. “They were invited to defend themselves, they confirmed it and party supremacy had to come into play. Nobody is bigger than the party”, he said. It is widely believed that Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, is also nursing a presidential ambition. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com