The Pharmacists Council of Nigeria has charged pharmacists to rise up and ensure that the Federal Government policy documents on Open Drug Market are implemented for the health of Nigerians. The Registrar, PCN, Dr Elijah Muhammed, gave the charge in Enugu during the naming ceremony of the conference hall of the PCN building. Muhammed said the Federal Government came up with the Coordinated Wholesale Centres in 2015 to accommodate individuals who were in the open drug market to ensure Nigerians get quality and efficacious drugs in the markets. He alleged that drug dealers in Enugu, Aba and some other places had shown less concern on the implement of the policy. The PCN boss said, “The issue of quality medicine is not just about how it is produced. Quality medicine starts from production, storage, distribution, sales and dispensing before the patient takes it. “When the storage facilities are not good enough (these drugs are chemicals), heat, temperature changes lead to degradation and these are very common in an unregulated environment like an open drug market. And the government is very concerned about it. “Since the temperatures are not regulated, there is a tendency for these drugs to degenerate and become more poisonous than what it’s supposed to be. “They may not likely be what was passed by NAFDAC for human consumption. That is why the government has come up with a Coordinated Wholesale Centres to accommodate those individuals who are in the open drug market.” Muhammed said pharmacists as custodians of drugs were charged with galvanising drug dealers to implement the Federal Government policy. He urged that the policy be adhered to, as no one should wait until the government decided to enforce the implementation before taking responsibility. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com