The Director-General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, has said no fewer than seven states are currently recording increasing cases of cholera. Ihekweazu, in an interview with our correspondent, said the agency had continued to support the states. He said, “Our surveillance system has detected an increase in cholera cases across states in Nigeria. We have been supporting these states through technical support via the deployment of rapid response team, provision of supplies, and laboratory confirmation of cases for effective response. “Currently, seven states are reporting an increasing number of cholera cases comprising Plateau, Bauchi, Gombe, Kano, Zamfara, Bayelsa and Kaduna. Following the detection of an increase in cholera cases across the country, a risk assessment was carried out at NCDC. “The multi-sectoral National Cholera Emergency Operations Centre was activated to strengthen the coordination of the response. This is in collaboration with the Federal Ministries of Environment and Water Resources, given the link between cholera and water, as well as sanitation and hygiene.” Ihekweazu stressed the importance of hygiene and access to clean water in overcoming the burden of cholera. The NCDC DG added, “The most critical measure to take in preventing cholera cases is providing access to clean water and ensuring proper sanitation and hygiene. “Cholera is spread by eating or drinking contaminated food or water. We urge members of the public to ensure that water is boiled and stored in a clean and safe container before drinking. “Hand washing is extremely important in preventing infectious diseases, including cholera. Please avoid open defecation and indiscriminate refuse dumping which contribute to the spread of cholera.” The PUNCH had on June 10 reported the death of eight people from cholera while 512 were hospitalised in Plateau State. The PUNCH also reported the death of 20 people in Bauchi on May 26 as a result of cholera, while 322 others were hospitalised. Seven casualties were reported on May 27 in Gombe. However, the state said on Wednesday that 16 persons had been treated and discharged, adding that the state was free of the disease. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com