The Niger Delta Power Holding Company and Eko Electricity Distribution Company Plc have signed a bilateral agreement for the sale of up to 300 megawatts of power from NDPHC’s power plants to improve power supply to customers in Ibeju-Lekki and other parts of EKEDC’s franchise area. The Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who hosted the signing of the agreement for this project at Lagos House, Marina recently, commended the initiative by NDPHC and Eko Disco, and stated that “he will monitor the implementation of the agreement”, according to a statement on Wednesday. The governor expressed confidence that the collaboration between NDPHC and Eko Disco would complement the current policies of the state government in economic and infrastructure development. The statement said the NDPHC and Eko Disco had committed to work together to deliver safe, reliable and steady supply of power to customers in the areas of collaboration. It said the project would be structured to remove the commercial and technical inefficiencies in the Nigerian electricity market and would mobilise significant capital investment in transmission/distribution infrastructure and metering technology. The NDPHC Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Mr Chiedu Ugbo, said the challenges in the industry inspired NDPHC to “source alternative means to sell and ensure dispatch of its stranded power generation capacity and explore innovative ways to unlock investment in infrastructure for improved supply to customers.” The MD, EKEDC, Mr Adeoye Fadeyibi, said the partnership aligned with the efforts of the Eko Disco to bridge the metering gap and improve the quality of electricity supply to customers. He appreciated customers for their continued support for the company’s quest to continue to improve the quality of lives of all stakeholders. According to the statement, the NDPHC has executed similar agreements with Port Harcourt Electricity Distribution Company Plc, Enugu Electricity Distribution Company Plc, Kaduna Electricity Distribution Company Plc and Benin Electricity Distribution Company Plc. It said in each case, the parties would mobilise investment in the expansion of the distribution network of the Discos to enable increased off-take of power and in metering technology in order to increase the collection rate of the Discos. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com