The Ekiti State Police Command said on Thursday that those abducted by gunmen from a hotel in Ayetoro, Ido/Osi Local Government Area of the state on Tuesday had regained their freedom. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Sunday Abutu, who said two persons were kidnapped as against four earlier speculated, said the victims were freed at Ikun in the Moba Local Government Area of the state. Sources had earlier alleged that the gunmen abducted four persons frim the hotel and also raped a lady. But the police spokesperson said, “Investigation did not reveal that anyone was raped during the attack. “The two abductees have regained their freedom. They were freed yesterday (Wednesday) around 10.30pm close to the Ikun Bridge in the Moba Local Government Area. Two people were actually kidnapped. The third person, who is the security man, was attacked with machetes, but he was not taken away. “When the kidnappers found out that police detectives deployed to hunt for them were closing in on them, they abandoned the victims on the bridge. But our men are still on their trail.” The police spokesman also debunked the rumour making the rounds that a truck loaded with northerners armed with AK-47 rifles and other weapons came to the Shasha Market, Ado Ekiti, on Wednesday. Abutu, in a statement titled, ‘No armed Hausa/Fulani invaded Shasha Market, Ado Ekiti’, said the story “is not just false, but a lie from the pit of hell, fabricated and spread by the enemies of the society to cause unnecessary panic.” He implored Ekiti residents to disregard the unfounded rumour, adding, “On Tuesday, a truck loaded with bags of beans, dried fish, onions and other food items from Sokoto State and heading for Akure, Ondo State, stopped by at the Shasha Market junction, Ado Ekiti, to offload five bags of fish. “In the process, the driver and other occupants were accosted by Amotekun personnel and interrogated, but they were later cleared to offload the bags of fish and proceed on their journey after confirming that nothing incriminating as alleged was on them. “The said truck did not even enter the Shasha Market, but only stopped at the junction and had earlier stopped at Ifaki Ekiti, where some bags of beans, were offloaded. “The Commissioner of Police, Tunde Mobayo, urges everyone to be calm and avoid any form of apprehension, but they should be security conscious and ensure the timely report of any ugly incident or suspected person(s) found around their neighbourhood to relevant security operatives.”      ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com