Dr Mfon Ineme is a clinical psychologist and senior lecturer, Department of Psychology, University of Uyo, Akwa Ibom State. He talks to GODFREY GEORGE about alcoholism What is alcoholism? The context of use in most cases when we talk about alcoholism is the use and abuse of alcoholic substances. The parlance used refers to the abuse. That is using it out of proportion, not for medical or therapeutic reasons. We talk about abuse in mental health when one uses any substance for medical or therapeutic reasons. In addition, alcohol itself is not deadly or poisonous to the system, but the active substance in the drinks has tendencies of it being abused and or addictive. How does this condition present itself? There are physical, emotional and psychological consequences. When the active substance rises to the brain, it alters the mood of the person. It also tempers with perception – how you see and understand things. And because alcohol is a drug, it goes to your liver, so it tends to tamper with the function of your liver and kidneys. This is why you see people who take alcohol too often develop swollen legs and eyes. In most cases, this is because the active substance has tampered with their liver. It may take some years; but after some time, the liver would be gone. It may begin to affect other major organs of the body, including the brain. Physically, it affects the kidney, liver and brain. You know when something affects the way your brain works, there is a problem because everything you do in life is affected by the brain. It tells us when to lift our hands, legs, see, walk, laugh and carry out other body processes. This is why you see people who abuse alcohol after sometimes developing shaky hands. This implies that some part of the brain is tampered with.  It destroys the speech centre as well. This is why people who take alcohol, in the long run, begin to develop slurred speech. Is it a stimulant? I would like to say alcohol is not a stimulant. It doesn’t stimulate one to do anything. It is actually a depressant. It depresses the brain and inhibits its functions, making it not to work as fast as it would have worked in normal conditions. It leads to addiction, which has about two aspects or dimensions. They are substance tolerance and dependence. Tolerance here means the need for increasing the quantity of that substance as the days go by. This is why when one begins to take alcohol today, he may take half a bottle, which is what we call ‘one drink’. Next time, he may need up to ‘two drinks’ to get satisfied. In a few months, he may need up to ‘five or more ‘drinks’ to get the same satisfaction one got when one started with just one drink.  This is because alcohol also tampers with the pleasure centre of the brain, which is called the nucleus accumbens. When it does trigger the pleasure centre, it makes the taker feel like taking the substance over and over again to feel good. With that, the person may require greater quantity as the days go by. Dependence is when one totally relies on the alcoholic substance to do the things one does on a normal basis. For example, we find students take alcohol to be able to go to school; workers take it to be able to go to work; men take it to be active in bed. These are things they ordinarily would have done on their own. They tell you it ‘clears’ the eyes, it makes them ‘high’, but the truth is it does nothing. Also, it affects the economy of the taker, because of the increasing craving. This is why when addicted people don’t have the money, they can borrow or steal the money or the alcoholic substance itself just to get the desired pleasure or satisfaction. If they cannot get the alcoholic substance, the person starts shaking or shivering because the system requires something it usually gets but is not getting at the moment. Some go all out to make sure they get the substance and access that satisfaction. There are assertions that our body needs some percentage of alcohol to function. How true is this? Our body indeed needs some amount of alcohol presence, but you do not need to take alcoholic drinks to access that. We can get it from some mild sources like cassava – which is used to make bread, biscuits, garri and fufu.  These will not lead to all the adverse side effects. What signs do you think people should look out for to know they are slipping into the condition? Once you notice that you are becoming obsessed, your body increasingly wants more drinks, even when you don’t want to take them, and you find a force pushing you towards the bottle, then, you are at risk. If you need alcohol to do your normal daily routine and functions, then, you are also at risk. When you discover this, then, it is a problem and you need therapy immediately. Are there environmental or sociological factors that control alcohol abuse? Yes, there are such factors. We have peer group influence, availability of the substance in the environment and affordability of the substance. These are some of the reasons. Some people are born into families where alcohol is a part of their everyday meal – father uses it to ‘brush’ his teeth; mother uses it to ‘flush’ her food down. If one is born into this family, then there is a problem. Are there genetic or biological factors? Can it be transferred from parents to their offspring? There are genetic factors in alcohol abuse. We have discovered that the brains of people who abuse substances are not exactly like those who do not abuse them. The extent to which that manifests is the function of the environment. Even if one’s biological makeup or nature has provided for the tendencies and does not drink it, that potential in one collapses or manifests in other ways. The fact that you still take it is because it is available in the environment. Some families don’t even see anything wrong with it. Some even mock you if you don’t take the substance, and this is appalling. Is it correct to say alcoholism is a mental illness? Yes, it can lead to what is called substance-induced psychosis. If the person in question already has biological or hereditary factors, the person may develop a mental illness. In fact, addiction (to alcohol) is a substance abuse case as well as a mental health issue. There is a fact that the use can also complicate existing mental health issues and may also trigger some mental health issues. From recent research by scholars, alcoholism has become predominant among young males and young adults rather than the elderly. What has changed? It is a cultural thing. It mirrors the decay in society. Our society has decayed. On the ground of that moral decadence in society, the trend has also changed. Before now, people got jobs immediately after they graduated from university. For some, companies waited to employ them. But this isn’t so now. People spend seven years and more in search of jobs and get none. Some people now take to alcoholism as a means of escape and keeping themselves busy until the job comes. Some take to alcohol as a way to manage stress. For them, it helps them forget some problems. But this is not true because the problem is still waiting. When the influence of alcohol fades away, the problem resurfaces. This is what is called temporary escape in psychology. This is very irresponsible anyway. If you have a problem, you face it, not run away, because an unsolved problem does not go away. What can people who become addicted to the use of alcohol as medicine do? Well, I don’t know who will make that kind of prescription for them anyway – to use alcohol as treatment or therapy. But then, even if that had been done, one needs treatment and therapy. Because of the nature of the drug, once one takes it, they tend to want to take another and get addicted. Inability to resist the urge or craving is an addiction. You dismissed the belief about the use of alcohol as a stimulant. Does that mean its use for sexual purposes is a myth? The truth is that these are myths and perceptions – that one needs alcohol to be able to perform well sexually. You don’t need alcohol to be able to perform or function sexually. If one feels they have a sexual dysfunction, they should visit a health facility and seek help. Psychologists, too, may help because some cases of sexual dysfunction are not biological but psychological. What is the diagnosis like? Well, it is self-diagnosed, most times. We do assessments as psychologists to get to know the exact conditions and the treatment to administer. But without these assessments, the person in question should know from the signs I had listed that they are gradually slipping into alcoholism, especially when the system is craving for these substances even when they don’t want to take them. This is why mental health experts are telling the Federal Government to decriminalise substance abuse. When you see people abuse substances, don’t arrest them and put them in jail. Even those who take cannabis, marijuana and other hard substances, don’t jail them. They are sick; they need help. We have been fighting with the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency for quite some time now. If someone is found taking this substance, don’t see them as criminals, arrest them and lock them up with armed robbers, ritualists, kidnappers. No, this is wrong. See them as people who need help, as patients who need help. It is abnormal behaviour. They need to be treated. So, if you notice you are becoming addicted to taking these substances, don’t be afraid of being arrested. Come out for treatment. Society should also take away stigmatisation. No one should stigmatise against them. It is a condition. Is it possible to completely free a person from this condition through treatment and therapy? It may take a long time, but it can be erased permanently. It can be treated. Two factors are implicated here. One is the determination of the patient. Two is identifying the extent to which the damage has been done and attacking it. Three is the availability of the helpers –psychologists, physicians, pharmacists, physiotherapists. Four would be the personality of the patient. If one has a strong personality, he may be able to come out of it. But if one has a weak personality, it may take a long time. Then, the prognosis is the function of these four factors interacting with one another. There is also the issue of how close the treatment is, how accessible treatment and experts are and how they are? These questions need to be answered. What is the treatment like? Is it drug-based or just therapy? We use what we call a multi-disciplinary approach to treat people who abuse alcoholic substances. The treatment is not done by one person. The psychiatrists will do their part; the psychologist, physician, psychiatric nurses, nutritionist and physiotherapist will do their parts. These people make up the multi-disciplinary team. It works when the person cooperates. Some people have been helped out of it. When it comes to withdrawal symptoms, what is the worst that can happen? It can lead to death if one does not quickly rush to a medical facility to seek help or has access to these drugs. That is why we tell the Federal Government to decriminalise this because these people need help as they are ill. Some people we find in prison don’t have a reason to be in prison. They abuse substances and their punishment is incarceration in prisons, where most of them still have access to these substances, and then it is counter-productive. If there is no drug to help reduce these symptoms and you put them in prison, you want to kill them. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com