DEPUTY Governor of Bayelsa State, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, has denied speculations that the Governor Douye Diri-led administration was planning to scrap the 32 Rural Development Authorities in the state. Ewhrudjakpo dismissed the speculations during a meeting with principal officers of the 32 RDAs (also known as G32) in his office, in Yenagoa, on Tuesday. He equally declared support for calls to strengthen local government administration in the country. The G32 were created from the statutory eight local government areas of the state by the administrations of former governors Diepreye Alamieyeseigha and Goodluck Jonathan with the former establishing 24 of them in 2000, while the latter added eight in 2007. The deputy governor explained that the present administration was taking steps to strengthen the local government system through the introduction of reforms. Ewhrudjakpo urged those clamouring for the cancellation of local councils as the third tier of government to properly diagnose the challenges affecting the functionality of this tier before drawing conclusions. While allaying fears over the rumoured scrapping of the 32 RDAs, the deputy governor said, “The local governments were created to achieve a purpose, if they are not achieving the intended purpose, I am of the strong opinion that we must do a critical evaluation and see if the RDAs have been aided and motivated enough before we talk about scrapping them. “Meanwhile, let me use this opportunity to assure you that this government appreciates the pivotal role councils and the RDAs are playing, so we have no intention whatsoever to scrap them. “Our intention is to address the financial hemorrhage in the local government areas. Our idea is to try to re-jig the system and give them all the support they need to achieve their responsibilities.” In his remarks, the Chairman of the G32, Mr. Singer ThankGod, commended the state government for the ongoing reforms in the local governments, and appealed for the completion of uncompleted secretariat projects in all the RDAs. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com