Nigeria is rich in ways you can see once you step foot into the country. Their culture is rich, their landscapes are beautiful, and the people are simply the happiest on the planet. Another noticeable thing about the country is how the people are widely drawn to sports. Although there may be a lot of sports that their locals love, it is undeniable that football has shone above all other sports. Aside from being their national sport, it is also the most followed sporting event in the country. Given the fact that sports betting in Nigeria is legal to those who are of legal age, it is no longer surprising to know that a lot of people there love betting on football. Whether it may be for their favourite teams or local players, it is undeniable that the amount of support pours whenever there is an upcoming match. To have a clue on how this sport has grown so much, here is a closer look at how the sport started in the country. Nigeria was once a colony of Britain in the early years of the 20th century. Colonization may have brought changes in Nigerian culture, both good and bad, but it also propelled them to industrial and agricultural progress. More so, they were also introduced to other forms of entertainment. Although they were introduced to a lot of sports, it is undeniable that football became the most popular one. The reason behind this is the fact that it can be played by a lot of players with just one ball. Its game objective was also easy to understand. Early records say that the first-ever played football match in Nigeria was a game between Hope Waddell Training Institution and the crew of the British gunboat HMS Thistle. This match was won by the Nigerians with a final score of 3-2 was held in June 1904. Two years later, football clubs started to be formed in Nigeria. Nigeria’s first football association was formed in 1932. This was called the Lagos District Amateur Football Association (LDAFA). This was followed by the launch of the National Football Association (NFA) in 1945. Today, the NFA remains to be the national governing body of the sport. Football was already becoming more and more popular in the country but it came with a lot of racism issues. As a result, a man named Nnamdi Azikiwe established his own athletic club in 1938. His club was named Zik’s Athletic Club (ZAC) and it became a symbol of self-determination and nationalism in the country. Azikiwe popularized football so much that it already became a huge part of the country’s identity. He even succeeded in having a wide media coverage for the matches despite the ongoing Second World War. Upon giving the people a sense of national pride, football was officially declared the country’s national sport in 1950. In October 1960, Nigeria officially gained independence from Britain. That was the same year they became an official member of Fédération Internationale de Football Association or FIFA, the world’s governing association for football. With Azikiwe’s efforts, he became the first Nigerian president in 1963. Nigerian football has come a long way since it first started in the country. Now, there are also mainstream football leagues in the country. Aside from watching the matches, people can now enjoy sports betting in Nigeria as the football matches keep on getting better and more exciting to follow. More so, people will also be amazed by how many Nigerian football players made a name for themselves by proving their sportsmanship.