A legal practitioner and commentator, Dr Ikpenmosa Uhumuavbi, speaks to MARITHA EBOLOSUE on the legal, political and social implications of re-establishing grazing routes in Nigeria Do you think the position of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on open grazing supersedes the decision of the 17 southern governors, who have pronounced a ban on it? A clash of competing expectations can sometimes lead to an illusion of progress. The real difference lies in the alignment between categorical and hypothetical imperatives. At this stage, it is difficult to ascertain whether the President’s position on open grazing is a statement of national policy or a mere expression of personal opinion. The President’s comment on national television does not automatically translate into state policy or legislation. In fact, a directive to the attorney-general that is not anchored on any law, direct or derivative, can be deemed an expression of personal opinion. The communiqué by the 17 southern governors pursuant to a meeting to address insecurity in the region has sound legal basis. Section 5(2)(a) & (b) of the 1999 Constitution empowers state governors to execute laws enacted by the respective Houses of Assembly for the peace, order and good government of the respective states. Although Section 5(3) (a-c) of the 1999 Constitution provides that the implementation of state law must not be done in such a way as to ‘impede or prejudice the exercise of executive powers of government of the federation in that state or endanger the continuance of the Federal Government in Nigeria’, ensuring peace, order and good government is paramount. Therefore, the President’s comment on open grazing lacks the legal and constitutional muscle to supplant the state governors’ position on this issue. Do you think the President’s directive to the Attorney-General of the Federation is valid? The President is legally empowered to give directives to the attorney-general on issues, which pertain to the exercise of executive powers under Section 5 of the 1999 Constitution. However, the legal basis for the President’s directive to the attorney-general on this issue of open grazing is unclear. The President mentioned that the gazette, which marked out grazing routes across the country, was put in place during the First Republic. Do you think such a law can still be effective in Nigeria of today, considering the dynamic nature of law and society? Mobilising the politics of open grazing at the expense of the politics of persuasion may isolate governance. As a rule, any law validly enacted subsists until expressly repealed or abrogated. In some cases, such law may be amended directly or completely replaced by a new law or re-adapted by case law. The question on whether a law or executive instrument gazetted in the First Republic designating certain lands within states as grazing routes is still effective raises further questions on whether the gazetted instrument is still in force as a good law. This is especially where other legislation exists with superior and more specific legal provisions on the subject matter. The Land Use Act enjoys constitutional recognition and as a result elevates its provisions over and above other legislative enactments. It, therefore, empowers state governors to hold land within their states in trust for the people in the state. Occupants of such land must not be deprived unless on the grounds of public interest. The constitution also guarantees freedom to own property. A reading of this provision makes the existence of property law to make land rights in the form of grazing rights exclusively to a tribe in the country. It can also have taint of discrimination based on tribal difference and therefore unconstitutional. Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, has accused the President of failing to act against the herdsmen because he (President) is also a Fulani. Do you agree with him? The President is encouraged to address these national problems in such a way as to win public confidence. As a leader with a national agenda, it is incumbent on the President to demonstrate commitment to peace and togetherness. The Benue State Governor is entitled to hold the view, because the President has not given him reasons to think otherwise. The President mentioned that Fulani from Mauritania and Central Africa Republic look the same, so people usually confuse them with those from Nigeria. Do you think this is an attempt by Buhari to shift the blame of alleged Fulani atrocities to those from other countries, thereby protecting his tribesmen? I think we can make progress in Nigeria if our leader moves beyond how the Fulani look and concentrate more on identifying and punishing those fomenting trouble in the country. If those creating this state of insecurity belong to a certain tribal group, the President should show leadership in addressing these problems. Why do you think no herdsman has been prosecuted for the numerous attacks on innocent citizens? The target should not be herdsmen generally. There are some law-abiding herdsmen, who have lived in communities harmoniously for many years. Stigmatising all herdsmen runs the risk of creating disaffection and disunity. The government should rather identify and prosecute those involved in crime and criminality among them. On October 20, 2020, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, quoted his principal to have directed the Minister of Agriculture to work with states to rediscover lost animal grazing routes and reserves as a means to end the frequent outbreak of violence between farmers and herders. Do you agree with what the President thinks will end the violence and attacks across Nigeria? Re-establishing grazing routes may reduce hostilities by herdsmen, but create new forms of inter-ethnic conflicts and rivalries. First, the forceful acquisition of land belonging to individuals or communities of different ethnic groups and designating same as cattle route to assuage the commercial needs of a certain ethnic group in the North is likely to stir up hatred and resistance by other affected ethnic groups. It will likely disrupt the use for which land is put as well as dislodge legitimate settlers of their entitlements. As a wealth-creating asset, any forced acquisition from other Nigerians will mean giving disproportionate advantage to one group at the expense of others. This will most likely ignite indignation, tension and criminality. Some Nigerians have stated that the gazette mentioned by the President only applied to the North. Do you think it will be practicable to apply the gazette to all states in the country? The fact that laws, decrees, regulations, notices and court decisions are published in an official gazette does not confer unintended extraordinary powers on their provisions. It merely indicates official recognition, recording and publication for public knowledge and access. Therefore, if the gazetted instrument was an Act of the National Assembly designating certain land in the country as grazing routes, then such an Act will be inconsistent with the constitutional provisions that guarantee right to property and more specifically the Land Use Act, which confers land on governors in trust for the people. Given the position of the gazette, its period of emergence, the level of inconsistency with the Constitution and the Land Use Act, such gazetted instrument or legislation cannot have the force of law in any part of Nigeria. The governors as trustees of land within their states enjoy this as a public right, which cannot be waived or abdicated. Do you then think the President’s directive to the AGF is an attempt to seize people’s land? The President is advised to whittle down his directive to the attorney-general so as not to give the impression of a clandestine plot to forcefully grab land belonging to individuals from other ethnic groups. Land disputes within communities can be ferocious. Nigeria needs conflict-mitigating solutions, policies and programmes at this time. The Federal High Court, Abuja, recently held that the power to enforce the anti-open grazing law rests on the state governors. Is the President’s directive to the AGF not against the pronouncement of the court? Section 6 of the 1999 Constitution confers judicial powers on the courts. Specifically, Section 6(6) (a-b) spells out the nature of judicial powers and persons or bodies that are subject to these powers. These include the executive arm of government, its personnel and agencies. Therefore, any directive of the President that goes against the decision of a court of competent jurisdiction cannot stand. However, Section 6(6)(d) seems to place limits on judicial powers with respect to action or proceedings relating to any existing law made on or after the 15th of January, 1966 for the determination of any issue or question as to the competence of any authority or person to make any such law. The extent to which this provision affects actions or proceedings prior to the 15th of January 1966 date to include a First Republic gazette remains moot. This situation is also problematic when viewed within the context of superior provisions in the 1999 Constitution and the Land Use Act of 1979. Considering the fact that 17 southern governors have made the decision to ban open grazing, even with the support of the Northern Governors’ Forum, don’t you think the President’s directive to the AGF undermines the powers of the governors? The President’s directive to the Attorney-General of the Federation is an attempt at throwing empty punches. It is a contest for supremacy and control over land resources in Nigeria. The Federal Government is underserved by the Land Use Act since governors enjoy significant control over land in their respective states. What do you think the governors can do to ensure that the anti-open grazing laws are enforced in their states? The governors should immediately work with their state Houses of Assembly to enact laws restricting open grazing activities. Instead, provisions should be made for ranching opportunities at communal levels. It is important to convince the President that open grazing is the least viable option for promoting effective animal husbandry, strengthening economic activities and improving communal harmony. What do you think can be done to put an end to the constant herders/farmers’ clashes in Nigeria? State governments need to develop ranching at commercial levels. This must be seriously pursued as the key policy of respective states. Public, private and partnership arrangements are needed to drive this strategic objective of state-led ranching as a conflict resolution alternative. This should entail developing a special purpose vehicle to manage ranching business within states. This entity should accommodate all stakeholders as equity participants in the special purpose vehicle.    ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com