Quality shelter remains an essential lifeline for the sustainability of any society. And the growing population of Nigeria is reflective of the need to keep up with the requisite facilities to satisfy these growing needs. However, Paul Erubami, a top expert on facility management, has raised concerns over the process of meeting these needs, which might fall short of the required standard without the involvement of facility management. Erubami therefore calls for a refocusing on efficient management of the built environment, through facility management. “Nigeria is building at a pace that has never been seen before anywhere on the continent. Technology is advancing in such a way that we are having new types of buildings; green, smart, intelligent buildings. We are also developing more interests in the facility management industry in Nigeria, but we lack the capacity. There is no organization focusing on building capacity for managing our built environment. “There is more focus on mass constructions, mass housing, and new infrastructure. But it takes a lot to keep these assets’ value up and running. We have identified gaps in knowledge and skills of managers. People are being drafted in from construction, engineering, and others fields to manage buildings without a facility management consultant, who understands how buildings degrade over time, the experiences of people over the useful life of a building. Because facility management is a multi-disciplinary field, nobody is really focusing on the body of knowledge for managing buildings. “We also found huge deficit in energy efficiency, energy provision for the facilities. This does not necessarily mean we have enough power for our built environment, but because we are wasting 40% of the power we are generating. We engage with a lot of clients across the country and realize that we could save electricity and diesel cost for up to about 30-40% just by intervening and using some smart systems. We want to close that gap through training.” He believes there is an increasing demand and vacancy in the facility management space in Nigeria, and basic shelter can transform to new heights of safety, comfort and functionality through innovative implementation of quality facility management. About Paul Erubami He is an erudite, top expert in facility management, who is vastly-learned and well-travelled. He is the founder and CEO of Max-Migold Ltd, a Facility Management company, with competencies in facility management trainings -facility advisory, facility quality audits, efficient energy management, asset management, recruitment, document digitization, among others. Paul also teaches practical facility management courses to Masters students in Facility Management, University of Lagos. With his repertoire of academic and professional accomplishments, he is qualified to officially teach IFMA CFM, FMP and SFP Certification Courses such as Operations and Maintenance, Project Management, Leadership and Strategy, Finance and Business, Strategy and Alignment for Sustainable Facility Management, Managing Sustainable Facilities, as well as Operating Sustainable Facilities.