There is a heavy presence of security operatives in Lagos State as the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) is expected to arrive in the state on Thursday, The PUNCH has learnt. Our correspondent gathered that Buhari is expected to commission some projects in the state. A top source in the Nigeria Police Force told our correspondent on Wednesday that barring any last-minute challenge, the President will fly into Nigeria’s economic hub from the seat of power in Abuja on Thursday. The source, who craved anonymity because he was not permitted to officially speak on the matter, told The PUNCH that Buhari’s “advanced team are already in Lagos and the President should be in the state if the weather is okay for flight”. The source further said the presence of the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, in Lagos, is part of the preparation to receive the President and tighten security before his arrival. Baba arrived in Lagos on Wednesday on a three-day work visit. Also, presidential aide, Bashir Ahmad, in a Facebook post on Wednesday, wrote, “President Muhammadu Buhari will tomorrow (Thursday), commission the 156km Lagos—Ibadan standard gauge railway line in Lagos, the first double-track standard gauge rail in West Africa, and the first Nigerian railway line to be started and completed by the same administration, since 1960. “Construction started in March 2017, and test-running commenced in December 2020. “The Ebute Metta Station, known as the Mobolaji Johnson Station, is the largest railway station in West Africa with a holding capacity of 6000 passengers. “President Buhari is committed to developing a modern national railway network that will connect every part of Nigeria, and promote trade, travel, tourism, commerce and national integration. — Presidency.” Motorists and commuters are expected to be slightly inconvenienced as the President’s visit is expected to affect traffic flow due to the closure of some roads. The last time the President visited Lagos was on Wednesday, April 24, 2019, during the tenure of All Progressives Congress Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode. During the visit, Buhari inaugurated some projects which include the Institute of Maternal and Child Health at Ayinke House; an ultra-modern 170-bed Obstetrics and Gynaecology specialist hospital located within the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital and Lagos Theatre at Oregun, Lagos. The President also inaugurated the Oshodi Interchange terminal for modern transportation hub; 822 high capacity mass transit buses; and a 10-lane world standard international airport road.