The Lagos State Police Command says it has arrested 127 suspected traffic robbers from March to date as part of its efforts to eliminate traffic robbery in the state. A statement by the command’s Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi, said the Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, made the disclosure on Thursday during a briefing at the command headquarters, Ikeja. The statement read in part, “The Commissioner of Police, while giving an assurance today (Thursday) at his Ikeja office, confirmed the arrest of no fewer than 127 suspected traffic robbers at various locations within Lagos State from March 2021 till date. “The commissioner also revealed that the command had been fighting traffic robbery relentlessly, even before the recent donation of crime-fighting equipment and communication gadgets to the command by the Lagos State Government, adding that the fight against the menace would be intensified.” The statement also said Odumosu had ordered the continuous training for police personnel attached to the Anti-Traffic Robbery Squad towards tackling traffic robbery. “The CP has ordered that the combat training, musketry and range practice for police personnel in the command should be continuous as the command also commenced the training of police operatives attached to the newly-formed Anti-Traffic Robbery Squad to tackle the menace of robbery in traffic in Lagos State,” the statement added. The commissioner also attributed the successes recorded in the fight against crimes and criminality in the state to the training and re-training of police officers and men, and constructive collaboration with the public and other security agencies in the state. In a similar development, operatives of the Rapid Response Squad nabbed two notorious suspected robbers on Tuesday. The suspects are Tunde Ramoni and Adepoju Samuel. Ramoni was arrested in the Ojota area, while Adepoju was caught in the act of robbing a motorist with an unregistered motorcycle around the Tipper area of Ketu. Odumosu directed that the suspects be transferred to the command’s Special Squad, Ikeja, for proper investigation.        ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com