The Lagos State Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr Idris Salako, has said the state government will not back down in its bid to demolish abandoned properties. Salako said this on Friday at a press conference organised to mark the World Environment Day in partnership with the Nigerian Institution of Environmental Engineers. He said the state had partnered with the International Finance Corporation to adopt the Lagos Green Building Initiative aimed at promoting eco-friendly structures. He said the digitisation of the processes of the ministry and its agencies was ongoing while establishing a building control appeals committee to independently consider infractions in the system. The commissioner urged for cooperation from stakeholders, reiterating the government’s resolve towards pulling down abandoned buildings in the state. He said, “It is important that you team up with us as regards voluntary compliance with the physical planning and development laws of the state and this also includes the stipulations on abandoned properties. “You are to note that government is not going back on its resolve to rein in on abandoned properties. I reiterate that we will not hesitate to invoke the law and demolish abandoned properties where necessary in order to enhance the security of the state.” At the ceremony, the commissioner presented cheques and certificates to the winner and runners-up of the student environmental essay contest organised by the NIEE in collaboration with the ministry. The winner of the essay contest, Afeez Adisa, a student of mechanical engineering from Lagos State Polytechnic, expressed his delight when presented a cheque worth N100,000. While thanking the organisers, he called for joint effort from the government and individuals towards preserving the ecosystem. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com