The Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria says it has continued to make efforts to create relevance for its members in the country and internationally. The immediate President, Dame Olajumoke Simplice, said this while delivering her last message as the president of the institute during CITN’s last annual general meeting in Lagos. “While working assiduously at the local level to make the institute a brand of choice among other professional institutes, we have also not lost sight of the need to be relevant at the international scene” she said. She said that CITN was enjoying increased recognition from relevant agencies of government at the federal and state levels. Some of the steps by the institute and events attended during her tenure as the president of the West African Union of Tax Institutes included visits to Togo, Gambia and Liberia earlier in the year. She said the outcome of the visits was quite fruitful and a pointer to the leadership role that Nigeria had always played. Simplice said that it was expectant that the efforts would result in nurturing tax professional groups towards building a professionalised tax system for countries in West Africa. She said that in spite of the effect of the national lockdown occasioned by the coronavirus pandemic in 2020, the institute maintained a smooth sail on all measurement parameters. “I am pleased to inform you that our institute remains strong, alive to its aims and objectives, actively impacting and contributing to the development of the fiscal policy space and the Nigerian tax system,” she said. Simplice appreciated the goodwill and support that she enjoyed from all stakeholders. “It is on account of this great support base that we were able to achieve the modest successes and surmount the challenges that we encountered,” she said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com