The Court of Appeal sitting in Akure, the Ondo State capital, on Wednesday dismissed the appeal filed by the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the last governorship election in the state , Mr Eyitayo Jegede, against Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, who was the candidate of the All Progressives Congress. The state election petition tribunal had earlier struck out the petition of the PDP candidate for lack of merit, but Jegede approached the appellate court to challenge the verdict of the tribunal. The appeal court, having examined the seven grounds of appeal of the appellant, dismissed the appeal, saying it lacked merit. In the judgement delivered virtually, the Justice Theresa Orji-Abadua-led five- man panel, said in the seven issues of appeal, the issues one to five were resolved to favour the appellant, while issue three was resolved to favour the respondent and issue six was partly dismissed and partly allowed while issued seven favoured the respondent. The court said, “The appeal is partly allowed and partly dismissed and the appellant’s case is also dismissed.” Meanwhile, the PDP has expressed its dissatisfaction over the judgement as it  declared that the appellate court’s verdict would be challenged at the Supreme Court, This was contained in a statement issued by the state Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr Kennedy Peretei. The statement reads partly, “The Peoples Democratic Party in Ondo State and candidate of the party at the October 2020 governorship election will challenge the Court of Appeal decision at the Supreme Court. In concluding her lead judgement, Justice Theresa Orji-Abadua, said the appeal was partially dismissed and partially allowed. To the ordinary man in the street, the judgement was “inconclusive” and we must approach the Supreme Court to help them conclude the judgement.” However, Akeredolu described the judgment as a landmark one and called on the opponent to join him in moving the state forward. He said, “The outcome notwithstanding, the verdict of the honourable Appeal Court is yet another great opportunity for my brother, colleague and friend, Eyitayo Jegede, to join me in the greater task of taking Ondo State to loftier and higher heights. “ Similarly, the All Progressives Congress commended the judgment, saying it was an affirmation of the people’s decision. A statement by the Publicity Secretary of the party , Mr Alex Kalejaiye, reads partly, “The ruling party applauded the Court of Appeal Panel for cementing the judgement of the tribunal, by upholding a dispassionate, and objective stand on the matter.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com