Habiba Khalid, a 33-year-old mother of two in Bauchi State, is in pain following alleged torture and brutalisation of her children by her co-wife and daughter. Khalid, who resides in the Bakin Kura area of Bauchi metropolis, told our correspondent that her children were repeatedly subjected to inhumane treatment by her co-wife and her 18-year-old daughter. Narrating her children’s ordeal, the woman said she separated from her husband three years ago, adding that at the time her son was two years old while her daughter was six months. Khalid further said that she left with her children but their father took custody of the kids under the pretence of taking them for Sallah. According to the woman, while her children were with her husband, her co-wife and step-daughter teamed up to make the children’s lives miserable by starving and physically abusing them. She said, “My children, especially the last one, were battered by the two. My co-wife’s 18-year-old daughter beat my daughter and used burning firewood to torture her at the slightest offence. And she does this in the presence of her parents and they never took any action to stop the inhumane treatment.” Khalid claimed that the abuse of her children continued for a long time until her sister’s friend informed her that her kids were being maltreated. She said, “In fact, my elder sister’s friend was the first to tell me that my children were being maltreated and if I didn’t go to take them away, they would kill them. When I heard those things, I called my ex-husband and asked him to return my children but he refused; he told me to come and get them myself but I refused to go.” Khalid added that she became sad after seeing her children returned to her and her daughter was limping. She stated that she was surprised to see the scars and wounds on her little girl’s tender body due to prolonged maltreatment. “I saw her back swollen and wounds were all over her body when I went to bathe her. I asked her what happened to her and she said that her half-sister always beat her. She told me that she (half-sister) used burning firewood to burn her body over slightest provocation. “I asked if her stepmother knew about it and she said that she even denied her food and shouted at her often. Seriously, what I saw when I removed her clothes was that her buttocks were flat and one could visibly see the signs of beating and burns,” she said with tears. Khalid also said that her younger brother took pictures which he shared on social media. The photos subsequently attracted the attention and sympathy of individuals, including an Abuja-based human rights group, Syndicate In Supporting Women and Children Initiative. She added, “The human rights group sent one of its employees to investigate what happened. When she came, she told me that she was sent from Abuja and would not waste time. She took me and my daughter to the Township Police Division where we reported the case. The police called my ex-husband, his wife and her daughter. They came to the station and were all detained but my co-wife gave a tenable excuse and she was released.” Khalid said that they went to the police station the next day and the DPO told them that they would continue to detain her ex-husband and his 18-year old daughter, adding they assured her that her co-wife would not also be spared. She added, “Since I saw the wounds on my daughter’s back, I am still in pain. If I don’t get justice in this case and it is swept under the carpet, I can have a heart attack and die.” The Executive Director of Syndicate in Supporting Women and Children Initiative, Binta Ibrahim, whose organisation handles sexual and gender-based violence as well as child abuse, told Saturday PUNCH that she saw signs of torture on the girl when she visited Khalid in Bauchi. Ibrahim said, “My Chairperson, Hajiya Maryam Mohammed, called me from Abuja to tell me that someone called her that there is a case in Bauchi which they should investigate. Immediately I got a direction on how to get to the victims. I went there last Friday and when I saw the girl, it was pathetic. I held her and took pictures with her. We discovered that the little girl was tortured and she said that her half-sister placed firewood burning on her body. There is also one by her rib on her right side. She also said that they starved her of food and they flogged her always. When we saw her, she was emaciated and had no strength. The injuries she sustained are severe as you can see from the pictures. When she was brought to the hospital, the doctor said there was starvation.” She said that the children’s father requested bail, adding that she insisted that for him to be granted bail, they must bring the boy too. She stated further that when they brought him, starvation and maltreatment were noticed on the boy and they had to commence treatment immediately on him. The Chief Nursing Officer of Tashan Babiye Hospital, where the two children were, Imam Garba, said they were responding to treatment. He said, “When the girl was brought to the facility, she was malnourished, severely emaciated, highly dehydrated and all her eyes sunken. But as you can see, she has greatly improved. What we are battling with now is to reduce the intensity of the malnourishment band to avoid further infection. There is also torture. When they came, there were wounds all over the girl’s back.” The Spokesperson for the police in Bauchi State, Ahmed Wakil, confirmed the incident to our correspondent in a telephone interview. Wakil, who did not give further details, said, “The matter is in court.’’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com