A tricycle rider, Lawal Abdulraheem, has accused the Divisional Police Officer of the Awa Police Station in Ogun State of demanding a bribe to release his and colleagues’ tricycles. It was gathered that Abdulraheem and three other riders were on June 2, 2021, hired by a man to convey bags of cement he allegedly bought from a quarry in the Mowo area of Ijebu-Awa to Ijebu-Ode. The other three tricycle riders were identified as Olalekan Azeez, Yunus Opeloyeru and one Fatai. Our correspondent learnt that when the owner of the quarry met the tricycle riders where they were loading the bags of cement and enquired who sent them, the man who hired them took to his heels. Abdulraheem told PUNCH Metro that he and his colleagues were subsequently arrested and detained at the Awa Police Station. However, when the quarry owner got to know that the riders were not the ones, who stole his cement, he told the police that he was no longer interested in pursuing the matter, but the DPO, Joshua Adewaleyinmi, allegedly asked them to bail themselves with the sum of N100,000 each. Abdulraheem stated that after much plea from their families, the DPO collected the sum of N50,000 from each of them and insisted that they must pay another N120,000 each to collect their tricycles or they would be auctioned. He said, “We were arrested and detained at the Awa Police Station for 11 days. While we were in the cell, one Jerry was brought to the station and he confessed to bringing the person, who stole the bags of cement, to work at the quarry. “It was then that the owner of the quarry told the DPO that he was no longer interested in pursuing the case since he now knew who brought the person, who stole his bags of cement, and that we should be set free. Jerry was detained and released after two days. “The DPO later called us into his office and asked us to call our family members to come and bail us with N100,000 each, but after much plea, it was reduced to N50,000 each. We all bailed ourselves with N200,000, but the DPO said we needed to bail our tricycles with another N120,000 each or they would be auctioned. “When we couldn’t raise the money, we went to beg the DPO with N50,000, but he chased us out of his office, saying if we didn’t bring the money, we should forget about the tricycles. “We are appealing to the state Commissioner of Police to come to our aid, because the tricycles are what we are using to feed our families and aged parents. The four of us are at home now doing nothing; we don’t have any other source of income and we are dying of hunger.” When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, did not take his calls and had yet to respond to a text message sent to his mobile telephone on the incident. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com