Since the launch of Smartphones in 1997, there has been a 35 per cent increase in the number of people with advancing myopia (short sightedness), according to a research carried out by the founder of Focus Clinics, USA, David Allamby. The rate of short sightedness among young people has soared in recent times because of high use of smartphones and tablets. It is estimated that the problem would increase by 50 per cent in the next 10 years. Allamby dubbed this condition “screen sightedness”. A large number of the world’s population, especially young people today own smartphones and/or tablets and they spend an average of two hours daily using them. This, along with time spent using computers and watching television, is putting children and young people at the risk of permanently damaging their sight. The average smartphone/tablet user holds the device 30cm from their face – with some people holding it just 18cm away – compared to newspapers and books which are held 40cm away from the eyes. Excessive screen watching at close proximity keeps the genes that control myopia activated well beyond the age that myopia (short sightedness) would historically have stabilised – about 21. Myopia used to stop developing in people’s early 20s but now, it is seen progressing throughout the 20s, 30, and even 40s. It is predicted that if things continue as they are, about 40 to 50 per cent of 30-year-olds could have myopia by 2033 as a result of smartphones and lifestyles in front of screens – an epidemic we call screen sightedness. Meanwhile, children are actually able to focus at close distances for extended periods of time than adults, and experience less eyestrain than adults. This is due to the higher elasticity and resilience cum proper functioning of ocular muscles in children and younger people. Still, the American Academy of Paediatrics recommends limiting a child’s screen time (including TV, computer, game console, tablet and smartphone) to no more than two hours a day. I’m not sure how realistic that is, because most classrooms use computers and tablets now. The phenomenon of “screen sightedness” results due to difficulty and discomfort of the constant work of accommodation and convergence, as contents from mobile phones seem to appear in front of the screen rather than behind it. These involve an interplay of intrinsic ocular muscles as well as extraocular muscles’ fatigue. In this our “technology-centric” world, the use of these screen devices is however pretty hard to avoid. Consequently, the following symptoms are usually associated: However, there are a few healthy tips that can help you override screen sightedness. Some of them include: However, a little discipline would work wonders – using these devices only when absolutely necessary. Finally, blink! Blink a lot! It helps protect the tear film layer amidst other protective cum bactericidal functions of tears. Stay healthy! Vision is life! Dr Prince Henry Emelike is a clinical/public health optometrist based in Umuahia, Abia State +2348068275813