The Industrial Training Fund says efforts are ongoing to roll out mass production of an Android mobile phones designed recently by the agency. The Director General of the ITF, Joseph Ari, disclosed this in Jos on Wednesday when the executive officers of the Senior Staff Association of Statutory Corporations and Government Owned Companies and the Amalgamated Union Public Corporations, Civil Service Technical and Recreational Employees visited him at the ITF headquarters in Jos, Plateau State. Ari said, “In a bid to commence the mass production and launch into market the ITF mobile, the Industrial Training Fund has initiated processes for the procurement and installation of a production line specially dedicated for that purpose at the ITF Model Skills Training Centre, Abuja. “Since the symbolic presentation of the ITF mobile to President Muhammadu Buhari, the ITF has been inundated with requests for partnership from corporate entities within the country. “I have given directive to the Director of Technical and Vocational Skills Training Department, who is also the Zonal Director of the ITF MSTC to get all the immediate machines so that we will be able to set up the production line. “Since the good news, we’ve also received a lot of requests for partnership. This is good as we cannot do it alone because we are not an island unto ourselves. The main thing is that this product is a home grown product and this lends credence to the fact that we too can do it in Nigeria.” The DG expressed appreciation to the staff of the Fund for identifying and supporting the management. He said, “Every leader should have a strategic vision. But you also need followers that will key into the leaders’ vision and happily, that’s what has happened in the ITF. “The unions have been great partners in progress. You have at all times remodeled, looked at the vision, reviewed it along with us and the areas where you find us going wrong, you took us back on track.” He stressed the need for continuous dialogue as recipe for industrial harmony. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com