Powerful Performance. Iconic Design Infinix  launched the all-new NOTE 10 series, a new portfolio of premium smartphones including the NOTE 10, NOTE 10 Pro and NOTE 10 Pro near-field communication (NFC). Showcasing a super fluid display, powerful MediaTek gaming processors, cutting-edge artificial intelligence (AI)-powered camera and optimized 5000mAh battery with fast-charge technology, the NOTE 10 series is crafted to enhance and optimize work and entertainment experiences for everyone. “We know today’s smartphone enthusiasts want a device that balances style with the latest innovative technology for a truly immersive experience,” said Manfred Hong, Senior Product Director at Infinix. “The NOTE 10 series perfectly balances functionality; aesthetics, style, innovation, texture and color functionality, to create the ideal, all-around device for professionals, entertainment lovers and everyday users alike.” The iF Design 2021 award winning NOTE 10 Pro delivers a balance between the physical and virtual worlds, the calmness and serenity of Mother Nature and the modern geometric interiors and décor designs of luxury brands. The back panel is uniquely divided into two sections with the bottom half completely textured in juxtaposition with the glossy top. The design is available in four colors: 95° Black, 7° Purple, Emerald Green (exclusive to NOTE 10) and Nordic Secret (exclusive to NOTE 10 Pro). A Stunning Visual Experience The NOTE 10 series creates the perfect viewing experience with a 6.95” full high definition (FHD+) display, and a 91% screen-to-body ratio with 480 nits of peak brightness and 1500:1 color contrast ratio for sharp, crystal clear visuals. Graphics and images seamlessness glide due to the 90Hz refresh rate and 180Hz touch sampling rate, which is perfect for watching movies, scrolling content or gaming. Certified by TÜV Rheinland for low blue light, users will enjoy hours of use without suffering from eye fatigue and discomfort. The NOTE 10 series delivers stunning professional-quality images and beautiful nightscape imagery, both in daylight and at night. To capture amazing selfies, the NOTE 10 series is equipped with a 16MP AI Beautify Selfie front-facing camera with two frontal flashes. The NOTE 10 Pro and NOTE 10 Pro NFC are loaded with an intuitive AI-powered four-in-one lens comprising 120° field of view (FOV) ultra-wide angle, super macro lens, 5P lens, black and white lens and portrait lens, which are all integrated into a rear-facing 64 megapixels (MP) 6P ultra night camera. For ultra-smooth and effortless filming, the NOTE 10 series also offers 4K resolution shooting capabilities in both the front and rear cameras using leading video-enhancement algorithms from Imint’s Vidhance Video Stabilization solution and auto-blur video shooting. Now, users can capture their breathtaking moments with confidence. Packed with Power & Performance For super-fast data processing and response times, the NOTE 10 Pro and NOTE 10 Pro NFC are powered by the award-winning MediaTek Helio G95 processor. Paired with MediaTek’s HyperEngine Gaming Technology, users benefit from 50% faster response times, stronger connectivity and low latency reduction by utilizing two Wi-Fi bands or routers at the same time.  MediaTek Helio G95 gaming processor for NOTE 10 Pro and NOTE 10 Pro NFC, comprises: MediaTek Helio G85 gaming processor for the NOTE 10, contains: The NOTE 10 series features a range of upgraded and new innovative technologies and features, such as:  Availability The NOTE 10 and NOTE 10 Pro will be available across all authorized retail stores in Nigeria and on Xpark @ http://ng.xpark.com. You can preorder the device for just N2500 or N2000 for Note 10 Pro and Note 10 respectively. For more information on the newly launched device, visit Infinix official website at www.Infinixmobility.com/ng  or visit Infinix on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram  at @Infinixnigeria. You can also join their community of young and vibrant fans on XClub via the app on your Infinix device or click on this link to download the app. About Infinix: Infinix Mobile is an emerging smartphone brand that designs, manufactures and markets an expanding portfolio of mobile devices worldwide under the Infinix brand which was founded in 2013. Targeting Generation Z, Infinix focuses on developing cutting-edge technology embodied in meticulously designed mobile devices that offer refined style, power and performance. Infinix devices are trendy, energetic, attainable & progressive with the end-user at the forefront of every step forward. With “THE FUTURE IS NOW” as its brand essence, Infinix aims to empower today’s youth to stand out from the crowd and show the world who they are & what they stand for. The company’s portfolio of products is sold in more than 40 countries around the world, covering Africa, Latin America, the Middle East, Southeast Asia, and South Asia. Expanding at a phenomenal rate, Infinix grew an unprecedented 160% during 2018-2020 and has huge plans to continue creating premium designed flagship-level devices offering striking designs and strong value propositions. For more information, please visit: http://www.infinixmobility.com/