The Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Wednesday said the state was willing to partner Aliko Dangote Foundation and Germany-based company, VDMA, to generate employment for Lagos youths. He spoke at the inauguration of the Aliko Dangote Foundation, VDMA technical training programme pnVictoria Island. It was said that the programme was aimed at empowering young Nigerian youths with technical skills in Electrical and Mechanical Engineering, with 120 trainees at the Dangote Academy in Obajana, Kogi State. Sanwo-Olu said Lagos would collaborate with Aliko Dangote Foundation to replicate the ADF-VDMA centre in the state. He said, “This initiative is a welcome addition to the capacity-building landscape. It is coming at a period that requires urgent and ambitious solutions to the lingering national problems of unemployment. “We are all witnesses to the high rate of unemployment in Nigeria, especially youth unemployment. While governments at the federal and state levels are doing a lot to tackle the scourge of unemployment, there is still room for much more to be done.” “This most laudable initiative aligns with our administration’s commitment to youth empowerment through vocational training and support.” The Chairman of Dangote Group, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, said vocational and technical skills were vital to the well-being of any economy, as key levers for growth, specifically in the manufacturing sector. He said, “As a private sector entity, the programme is a crucial step in a larger vision of collaboration between Nigeria and Germany that we expect will lead to the exchange of knowledge, technology, and industrial capabilities. We also hope that this could lead to the deepening of the commercial relationship between our two countries.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com