The positions of ‘only’ in the following sentences say a lot about why you need to be very careful with modifiers. He only went there. Only him went there. He went there only. Same words, same number of words. But do the statements mean the same thing? No. The placement of ‘only’ gives each a different meaning. In the first clause, the person in question did not do any other thing at the place, he only went there. The second indicates that nobody else except him went there, while the third means that he did not go to any other place besides ‘there’. Let’s connect this to the popular greetings, ‘Happy belated birthday’. It is a common one, especially on Facebook and other social media. The reason is that one sometimes misses the dates of the special days of some loved ones. Of course, this is understandable going by the many things that compete with one’s attention. Now, a day or longer after, one still wants to rejoice with the people concerned. The phrase, ‘Happy belated birthday’, is however faulty because the adjective is being made to qualify a wrong word. The noun it should go with is the greeting or wishes (happy birthday) because that is what is late as it was not expressed on the exact birth day. The chap’s birthday is not late, never late because the calendar is a super fixed phenomenon. Even when someone is dead, their birthdays remain constant. So, it cannot be ‘Happy belated birthday’ but ‘Belated happy birthday’. Let’s quickly compare this to another popular expression that features a misplaced adjective: plate number. In one of our earliest lessons in this class, we dissected the phrase and established that the order of the words should be reversed. Which is qualifying which? Should the plate qualify number or the number qualify plate? When you get a new vehicle and you approach the Federal Road Safety Commission for registration, what do you want from them? Although what you ultimately desire is the number, what you primarily want is the plate on which the number sits. That is what you are buying from them. They do not write the number on paper or send it to you electronically. You want a plate. What type of plate? The one that carries the registration number. So, it needs an adjective to so describe it. It is a number plate, not a plate number. By the way, what is the difference between number registration and registration number? Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com