The Federal Government has allayed the fears of Nigerians on the increase noticed in the COVID-19 figures lately, saying the nation has not started experiencing third wave of the pandemic. It attributed the increase to the backlogs from Benue and Nasarawa states The Executive Director, National Primary Health Care Development Agency, Dr Faisal Shuaib, said this in an interview with our correspondent. Our correspondent had sought to know what caused the recent increase and why figures are being recorded in only a few states, among others. He said the spike in cases reported by the National Centre for Disease Control on Monday was due to backlog of cases from May in Benue and Nasarawa states. Shuaib said, “The spike in cases were from two states, Benue and Nasarawa, and they were not reported due to backlog. “There is no third wave yet, the Federal Government is still monitoring the cases. “Before we can declare a third wave, there has to be consistency in spike of cases reported.” Earlier at a press briefing organised to update Nigerians on the vaccination process, the NPHCDA boss said the Federal Government was working with stakeholders to fast track the production of locally-made vaccines. He said “The Federal Ministry of Health is working with critical stakeholders to fast track the establishment of local vaccine production plants in Nigeria. “This initiative will be seizing on the environment created by lopsided availability of vaccines, momentum and intellectual property waivers and health security imperatives that vaccines represent.” On the vaccines, Shuaib said, “There have been cases of mild, moderate and severe adverse effects following immunisation since we officially rolled out COVID-19 vaccination on March 15,2021. “The AEFIs symptoms range from pain and swelling at site of vaccination to more serious symptoms such as pain and swelling at site of vaccination, as well as  more serious symptoms such as headaches, abdominal pain, fever, dizziness and allergic reactions “A total of 10,027 cases of mild AEFI have been reported as of May 30, while 86 cases of moderate to severe incidents have been reported. All these individuals have since fully recovered. Shuaib said vaccines were not without side effects, adding, “Children also have side effects after taking vaccines, we see parents give their children paracetamol.” Shuaib added that Nigeria is in consulting to see how the country can access surplus vaccines being stockpiled by developed countries. ”Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com