Oyo State Police Command on Monday paraded three suspects arrested in connection with the mayhem which happened in the Iwo Road area of Ibadan, the state capital last Wednesday The suspects are officials of the Park Management System which runs the affairs of motor parks in the state since Governor Seyi Makinde proscribed the National Union of Road Transport Workers in the state. The Commissioner of Police in the state, Ngozi Onadeko, while briefing journalists said the suspects were arrested because of their alleged involvement in the mayhem. The CP said, “Investigation is still ongoing. I will continue to update you about what we get from the investigation.” Speaking on the increasing insecurity in the state capital, the CP stated that the police were working round the clock to curb this. She also appealed to members of the public to support security agencies to achieve this. One of the suspects, Omoniyi Elemo, told journalists that he did not attack anybody but claimed that he was attacked and injured by some of the phone dealers. He stated that the police arrested him at the hospital where he was taken to for treatment, saying he knew nothing about the clash. Elemo said while he was trying to prevent a driver from obstructing vehicular movement with his vehicle, some boys came out from the Iwo Road Shopping Complex and started beating him. He added that one of the boys injured his face with a stone leading to him being taken to the hospital from where he was arrested by the police. Meanwhile, gunmen on a motorcycle reportedly invaded Iyana Court, Ile Titun Area in Ibadan South-East Local Government Area of Ibadan killing three persons. Our correspondent gathered that a physically challenged man identified as Sodiq, also known as Chicken, was the target of the hoodlums. Sodiq who was said to have a hunch at his back was shot dead. A woman and her daughter who displayed their wares by the roadside were also said to have been shot dead. The incident reportedly happened at about 10.30pm on Sunday. It was gathered that the gunmen made sure that Sodiq was dead before they escaped through Olomi side. The Police Public Relations Officer in Oyo State, Adewale Osifeso, when contacted said he would find out and get back to our correspondent. He was yet to do so at the time of filing this report.