The Ebonyi State Government has constituted a 21-man committee to look into the lingering misunderstanding between the management of the Ebonyi State University and the trade unions in the institution. The panel, according to the statement,  is aimed at putting a permanent end to the impasse. The state Commissioner for Information, Uchenna Orji, disclosed this in a statement made available to journalists at the end of the stakeholders’ meeting convened by Governor David Umahi on Wednesday. The meeting, which was held at the Executive Chambers, Old Government House, Abakaliki, witnessed the presence of the leadership of the Christian Association of Nigeria, Founding Fathers and Elders Council, including the immediate past Governor of Ebonyi State, Chief Martin Elechi. The committee, Orji said, was drawn from different organisations and stakeholders of the university community and was charged to work as a visitation panel to the university and to get details of the school fees, subventions, allowances and sources of revenue of other universities of similar status and submit findings and recommendations within one month. The statement read, “Government considered the agitations of the trade unions and the needs of the university community and resolved to set up a 21-man committee to be drawn from different organisations and stakeholders of the university community to look into the problems of the university. “The committee is charged to work as a visitation panel to the university and to get details of the school fees, subventions, allowances and sources of revenue of other universities of similar status and submit findings and recommendations within one month. The committee is to be inaugurated on Friday, June 11, 2021. “Government reiterated its commitment to the security and welfare of the students of the university and indeed all the academic institutions in the state and resolved to fund the internal security arrangement of the students of the Ebonyi State University.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com