President, Nigerian Association of Nephrology, Professor Fatiu Arogundade, says Nigeria can only boast of only about 250 active nephrologists for its estimated 200 million population. This is a far cry from, at least, 120,000 nephrologists that should serve the population. Speaking in an interview with PUNCH HealthWise, Arogundade,who is a Professor of Medicine and a Consultant Nephrologist, said there is a need for more nephrologists in the country to improve the nephrologist-patient ratio and increase the survival rate among patients with kidney disease. “Unfortunately, I can tell you confidently that the number of nephrologists in Nigeria is still less than the 250 that cover the entire country. “By the World Health Organisation’s standard, we should have one nephrologist to 75-100 dialysis or transplant patients. “If our population is 200 million and we assume that about 10 percent of the population could have kidney disease, that translates to about 20 million and out of this, we assume that the young middle age and the elderly population will cover about 60 percent of our population. “So, if that translates to about 12 million, it means that we are supposed to have one nephrologist to take care of 100 out of this 12 million. “So, it means that our number is short of what is supposed to be; we are supposed to have 120,000 nephrologists in Nigeria to take care of patients with kidney disease,” he said. A nephrologist is a kidney disease specialist who offers the expertise, guidance and support needed for a healthy kidney. According to Arogundade, nephrologists are located where there are renal care centres and the centres are mainly in the urban centres. “To increase the number of nephrologists in Nigeria, we need to train more and we need to expose them to what obtains in the best of centres all over the globe. “This will help to improve the nephrologist-patient ratio, many more patients will have access to good care and many more patient will survive and they wouldn’t die untimely death like we currently see. To continue reading this story, go to https://healthwise.com/ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com