The Ondo State Chapter of the All Progressives Congress on Tuesday disclosed that one of its members had been killed in Imoru community in Ose Local Government Area in the state. It was gathered that the deceased, identified as Bamidele Isibo, was shot by bandits on his way from Imoru to Ifon , where he had gone for political matter, on Saturday and passed away on Monday. The late APC chieftain was said to be a member of the state executive committee of the party before his death. The party’s Publicity Secretary Mr Alex Kalejaiye, who disclosed this in a statement, said Isibor died as a result of gunshot injury he sustained during the attack of the bandits. He was aged 62. The statement read, “The Ondo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress regrets strongly the death of one of its members, Hon. Bamidele Emmanuel Isibor. He was 62 years old. “Until his demise, Hon. Isibor, a retired top civil servant, and father of five, was a member of the State Executive Committee of the party. “He was a dependable ally, and deeply committed to the development of APC, particularly in Ose Local Government area, where he was the party’s secretary. “The party scribe was attacked over the weekend, in company of others, on his way from Imoru to Ifon, headquarters of Ose Local Government area. He died of gunshot wounds on Monday.” “The party condemns the violent attack on i’s stalwart which led to his painful exist, at the time the party is warming up for its congress. “Security challenge has been a major focus of the APC-led government in Ondo State, for which so much has been done. The attack on Isibor and others has again underscored the need for every stakeholder to support the security initiative of the State Government to stamp out all forms of criminality.” “Praying for the repose of his gentle soul, the party condole with the Isibor family, his community, and the APC fold in Ose, and indeed, Ondo State, asking God to grant us the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss.” When contacted, the Police Public Relations, Mr Tee-Leo Ikoro, said he had not been briefed on the matter.