Residents of Fagba junction, Daddy Savage, Jonathan Coker, Railway Crossing, Pipeline Road and environs in the Ifako Ijaiye Local Government Area of Lagos State are in distress over incessant robberies and killings by hoodlums in the areas. PUNCH Metro gathered from residents that the attacks had become frequent and that many of the miscreants were not just dispossessing residents and passers-by of their belongings, but were also harming and killing them. One of the heads of residents’ associations in the area, who spoke to our correspondent on condition of anonymity, said the attacks were becoming a daily occurrence, adding that three persons were stabbed to death at Fagba junction in the past week. “These boys stab and kill people just to snatch their phones. Many have been rushed to General Hospitals. The boys don’t just hang around, they move around boldly. It has even degenerated into traffic robbery. Yesterday (Wednesday), they broke a vehicle’s windscreen in front of Providence School, while attempting to attack a man on his way to work,” he said. Another resident, who simply identified himself as Femi, said the miscreants operate mostly in the early hours of the day and from 8pm, adding that motorists now avoid the Agege-Fagba Road to get to their various destinations. Femi stated, “Fagba has become another thing entirely. The miscreants recently attacked a man while he was dropping off his daughter at school. The daughter had to run into her school, while the father fled in another direction. A lot of people have left Fagba and motorists are afraid of passing through the area. “Motorists coming from Agege and Ikeja to Iju, Oke-Aro, Ajuwon and similar places prefer to go through Ogba, Akute or Obawole to reach their destinations, because of the attacks. The boys don’t just  collect valuables, they injure and sometimes kill their victims.” A motorist at the Railway Crossing area, Uche Uzor, also told PUNCH Metro that some of the hoodlums were from the abattoir area, adding that the influx of many people into the area was worrisome. “Most of the boys carrying out these attacks come from the abattoir. Someone’s phone was snatched and the owner was killed two days ago on his way to work around 5am. They are the normal hoodlums around. The influx of people into the area is too much. They bring them in trucks. But I don’t know if they are the hoodlums,” Uzor stated. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi, told PUNCH Metro that the command was aware of the situation, but that no case of killing was recorded in recent times. Adejobi stated, “We are aware of one or two isolated cases of stealing from persons and not robbery attacks, but no case of killing was recorded at all. It’s a mere rumour. The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, Hakeem Odumosu, is sensitive and responsive to the situation at Fagba and he has deployed men, patrol vans and an Armoured Personnel Carrier in the Fagba area on a 24-hour basis to secure the place. “In addition, our intelligence units have been mandated to do the needful in the area generally. Fagba is safe as we speak. There’s no cause for alarm.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com