The Commissioner of Police in Imo State, Abutu Yaro, on Wednesday, explained why security operatives were embarking on indiscriminate arrests in the state. Speaking when the Orlu branch of the Nigerian Bar Association visited him in his office at the Police Command headquarters in Owerri, the CP disclosed that security operatives were working had to restore peace in the state. Yaro explained that the “emergency situation” in the state had led to the incessant arrests the security agents were undertaking in the state. Commending the NBA for partnering with the command in the fight against insecurity in the state, the CP said that the Easter Monday jailbreak at Owerri Correctional Centre had worsened insecurity in the state. The CP said, “People have raised concern about the incessant arrests in the state, but what people do not know is that incessant crimes lead to incessant arrests. In the last few months, Imo has been tagged an emergency or red flag state but we must work hard to restore peace and confidence in the state. “As professionals, we must work together to improve our criminal justice system. We are doing mop-up; we have a law that empowers us to do that. The situation in the state requires collaborative efforts from everybody. Businesses are suffering. Let us embark on practical engagement with the police, in order to restore sanity in the state. “We are not unaware that ‘political enterprise’ is partly responsible for the crisis in Imo State. Insecurity in Imo State has a political undertone. Within the last 48 hours, the house of the state Commissioner of Information was destroyed. Someone somewhere told them to do that simply because he (commissioner) is serving the Imo State Government.” The Orlu NBA branch Chairman, Chinedu Agbodike, said that police should start seeing them as partners in progress, not as enemies. The NBA Chairman asked the CP to improve on the security in Orlu, adding that the quest to restore security in the state was a collective one.