TRADIONAL rulers of Midim community in Essien Udim Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State on Sunday raised the alarm over an alleged clampdown on innocent citizens by security operatives in the guise of hunting for members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra. The monarchs who commended the state government for initiating moves aimed at ensuring nobody in the state was part of IPOB’s secessionist agenda, lamented that the method it (state government) had deployed in drawing it intelligence was flawed. The spokesman of the community, Mr. Victor Udom, at a media briefing in Uyo, said while critical stakeholders were expected to be part of the initiative, security operatives had chosen to draw intelligence from a “biased, mischievous and politically influenced source.” He said, “We are very concerned that in embarking on this sensitive exercise, the agencies of government, instead of involving credible and unbiased critical stakeholders in our community for effective and successful drive, rather chose to getting intelligence from a glaringly biased, mischievous and politically influenced source. “This has resulted in the attendant near failure in getting the real hoodlums in various communities who are now made to flee while our largely innocent victims or those with minor offences have been wrongly targeted for intimidation, arrest and extrajudicial elimination. “We protest the recent takeover of our community, intimidating, indiscriminately arresting, torturing and deliberately implicating our people all in the name of routing members and subscribers to IPOB/ESN and unearthing other criminals by men of the Nigerian Police and Army. “We condemn all acts of hostage takings, dehumanisation and extrajudicial killings of innocent people and urge you to intervene and bring all the acts of barbarism not known to law to an immediate end in Midim particularly and Essien Udim in general.” When contacted the Public Relations Officer of the state Police Command, Odiko Macdon, said the allegations of indiscriminate arrest and extrajudicial killings were not true and demanded to know the people behind the claims. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com