Mr Sola Ebiseni is a legal practitioner and delegate to the 2014 National Conference as well as a chieftain of the pan-Yoruba socio-cultural organisation, Afenifere. He speaks to PETER DADA on sundry national issues What is your general view on the current state of this country? It is very obvious that all is not well with our country, which today is practically a failed state. The Nigerian state has failed the most fundamental reason of its existence, which is the security of lives and property of its citizens and inhabitants for the pursuit of their individual and collective happiness. It has got to the state where people no longer bother about the economy, politics or even the education of their children. They just want to live and wait upon the Lord for this time to pass. It is the experience of a state of nature, which existed before the emergence of the state. In spite of its economic issues, this country used to be fun and we are regarded as the happiest people in the world. In our university days, we would leave the University of Ife (now Obafemi Awolowo University) by 10pm and head for ABU, Zaira, to hold meetings of the National Association of Nigerian Students, driving through the night, stopping to eat and rest along the way. Just in 2014, as a delegate to the National Conference, I was leaving Abuja around 6pm every Thursday or Friday and reaching Akure sometimes at midnight. It is a great risk to travel within your state now. In the social contract, the citizen is supposed to take his security as given, a responsibility of the state. With what you have just said, where do you think things went wrong? Is it really the fault of the current administration or an accumulation of challenges? So many factors are responsible for the current state of things, which did not start under the present administration. Some people have attributed this to unemployment, lack of education, religious bigotry and general insensitivity or irresponsibility of the elites, particularly the political, traditional and religious classes over the years. Looking at it historically, the problems began when young military officers, who were ill-trained for political administration, seized political power supposedly to correct the ills of the politicians, but ended up destroying the fundamental principles of our federal union and replacing it with the current quasi-federal system. We were still able to tolerate ourselves and manage the polity until we found ourselves completely no longer at ease under this extremely sectional, nepotistic and divisive Buhari administration. Things have evidently fallen apart and the centre is only precariously still holding. Different meetings of the governors of northern and southern Nigeria have been held, yet their resolutions are not the same. Is this not an indication that the country is dangerously divided? It is self-evident that things have fallen apart, not just my own opinion. Under the Olusegun Obasanjo administration, the northern governors would only meet to discuss issues of common economic interest under the former Northern Nigeria Development Corporation, just as the South-West governors would converge as shareholders of the Oodua Group of Companies. That was largely the situation under Goodluck Jonathan, except the north-eastern governors’ meeting on the emerging menace of Boko Haram. Under the Muhammadu Buhari administration, the meetings of the northern governors and political leaders have not only become quite frequent and regular, the communiqués issued after such meetings are most divisive and arrogantly sectionalising the governance of the country; issuing directives to the rest of the country; and emphatically insisting that anyone or group seeking the restructuring of the federation should approach the National Assembly, which they dominate unfairly. Remember that after the #EndSARS protest, the 19 governors of northern Nigeria met in Kaduna with the federal political appointees which, because of the nepotism of the Buhari administration, looked like the full government of the federation. They congratulated the northern youths for not participating in the protest, which they denounced as an orchestrated plan to overthrow the Buhari administration, which they vowed to protect as their baby. The Chief of Staff to the President only later pretentiously met with the South separately as the South-West, South-East and the South-South, which was shifted several times until the Niger Delta youths protested. Nigeria came to be as an amalgamation of the North and the South. The South is more at peace with itself. The various southern groups have no religious or territorial disputes among themselves and are all in agreement on the restructuring of the country. The current insecurity is only a recent phenomenon by Fulani ethnic militias masquerading as herdsmen, imposed on the South since the coming of Buhari. The meeting of the southern governors is not a South/North contest, but a logical response to the yearnings of their people for security of lives and property. It is also an eye-opener to some elements in the North that Nigeria is our common patrimony of convenience. It is not a sign of dangerous division; it is the signal of the reality of balance of force, which only engenders mutual respect. The Senate President asked the southern governors to restructure their states first before calling for the country’s restructuring. Some people are alleging that he was speaking the minds of President Buhari and the northern leadership on the matter. What is your take? Ahmed Lawan will ordinarily be entitled to his own opinion or speak the minds of the people of the Borno North Senatorial District, whom he represents in the Senate. Unfortunately, he falls far below the expectations of Nigerians and informed persons about the demands and responsibilities of his office as the leader of the National Assembly. It is unthinkable that the Senate President will appear not to know that restructuring goes to the root of the structure and character of the Nigerian state. Not even the President or the National Assembly can meet the aspirations of Nigeria under the present Constitution. Don’t you agree with him that part of Nigeria’s security problems is that the local government system is not functional? Such comments are mischievous and deliberately divisive. Why did he also not realise that a unitary police system is inconsistent with federalism? Why is it that the Federal Government and the Nigerian Armed Forces cannot do without the support of the Civilian Joint Task Force, vigilantes and local hunters in the prosecution of the war against Boko Haram in Lawan’s Borno State? The local government system is a wicked machinery of oppression, which must be heavily visited by restructuring. It is convenient for Lawan that the unjust award of local governments by the military regime, which they did not only list in the Constitution, but also use as a means of drawing funds from the Federation Account, should continue to operate. Kano, with 44 local governments, is equal to the total of Lagos at 20; Ekiti, 16; and Bayelsa, eight. It is also just in the opinion of the Senate President that Kano with 44;  its baby, Jigawa, with 27; and Katsina, with 34, all have 105, while the number of local governments to the entire South-East is 95. Check the Constitution and do the calculations. President Buhari displayed a most insensitive mind-set when he declared the Nigerian Constitution very fair, because according to him, Kano with 44 local governments has the same number of senators with a state like Bayelsa with eight as if the eight local governments are all Bayelsa deserves or just a gratuitous insult to the Ijaw nationality in their only homogeneous state. Nasarawa State, with 13 local governments, was created the same day as Bayelsa and has about the same population. Under Buhari, the lopsided local government system is not only a means of unjust revenue allocation, but now also a parameter for federal employment, so that in the so-called 1,000 jobs per local government, Kano, Jigawa and Katsina will have 105,000 slots, while the whole of the South-East with by far larger number of educated and unemployed youths will have 95,000 and you are surprised at the popularity of Biafra agitation. Nigeria is a joke. In view of the discordant views between the North, the South and different groups, do you see the possibility of having consensus for restructuring? If there is any issue in which Nigerians are ad idem, that is having a meeting of minds, it is that our present constitution is neither a product of the people nor is it federal. On a national scale, I can say that the Yoruba, whose position we articulate in the Afenifere, are the champions of restructuring on which ferma terra the Southern and Middle Belt Leaders’ Forum stand today. The Arewa Consultative Forum quite recently submitted to it; it’s imperative that governors from the South and the North now subscribe to it. Incidentally, both the PDP and the APC totally agree on it that the 2014 National Conference of the Jonathan PDP administration submitted consensual resolutions on restructuring with the federation agreeing on the states and federal capital territory as our federating units with provisions for zonal cooperation for security and economic prosperity, state police, local government system, the federal and state executive arms and the principles of rotation, devolution of power and the legislative lists, water resources and environment, even the issue of grazing and animal husbandry generally and so on. In a similar vein, the ruling APC set up a committee on true federalism headed by Governor El-Rufai of Kaduna State. The report submitted is virtually a photocopy of the 2014 Confab report. So, you see, only three officials of the Federal Government, that is, the Senate President, Attorney-General of the Federation and Garba Shehu still oppose an idea whose time has come. Are you subscribing to the insinuation that President Buhari is not in charge of the administration of the country and that he is overwhelmed with all the problems of the nation? Buhari bungled a most beautiful opportunity to emerge the greatest statesman Nigeria ever had. Since the return to democratic rule in 1999, Buhari’s election in 2015 was a call to duty by his countrymen, who saw in him a possible Joshua to lead them to the ‘promised land’. He has the rare privilege as a former military Head of State, now being elected President. His inaugural speech that he was for all of us and no one turned out words merely plagiarised by his speech writers to which he barely paid any attention. He couldn’t see himself beyond being the patron of Miyetti Allah and couldn’t raise a finger against their terrorist herders; his revered military career and his government diminished. It is very unfortunate. In the just concluded public hearing on the review of the 1999 Constitution, it was observed that Afenifere didn’t submit a memorandum, is it right to say that the group does not believe in the review of the constitution? Afenifere advocates fundamental restructuring of Nigeria for the reinvention of a federal constitution as the agreed principles of governing Nigeria and its diverse ethnic nationalities by our founding fathers, which will ultimately replace the imposed 1999 unitary Constitution. Amending the 1999 Constitution is an exercise in futility and a waste of time and public funds. We cannot claim to be a Federal Republic and be governed by a unitary constitution. We cannot claim to be in a democracy and be governed by a constitution that does not emanate from the people. Amendment will not cure the anomalies. You cannot put something on nothing and expect it to stand. Every session of the two arms of the National Assembly since 2007 has embarked on the same jamboree of constitutional amendment and spending public funds on public hearings without any result. The National Assembly is part of the issue to be determined in the process of restructuring and cannot legitimately be the judge in such an exercise. This is evident from the condemnation of the declarations of the southern governors in support of restructuring by both the Senate President and Speaker of the House of Representatives, while the committees, as agents of the National Assembly, were gallivanting round the country. From nothing, nothing comes. Ex nihilo nihil fit. So, what is the way forward for the nation? The way forward is becoming more difficult to understand. Because of the undue intransigence of the Buhari administration, restructuring is becoming unattractive to the people. I was a delegate to the 2014 National Conference and have always joined others to recommend its resolutions in restructuring Nigeria, but such resolutions are no longer sufficient. If Nigeria must be saved from implosion and dissolution, the restructuring needed now is much deeper and will involve the armed forces, which must in architecture and content reflect the true nationality composition of Nigeria. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com