The search for a consensus around the issue of zoning of party offices is partly responsible for the delay in releasing the timetable for the proposed National Convention of the All Progressives Congress Sunday Punch has learnt. A reliable source in the party leadership, who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorised to speak to the media on the issue,  confided in our correspondent, on Saturday. The source noted that a tentative timetable had been prepared but that party leaders wanted the President and other critical stakeholders  to equally make further imputes before it was taken to the next National Executive Committee meeting for final ratification. The source said, “The Caretaker Committee has a tentative schedule of activities in place but you know, critical stakeholders especially the President must make some impute before the document is released to party members. “There is also the issue of zoning. We have to agree which zone would get what position. “We have a  tradition. We have always built a consensus before going into our convention, we don’t want to deviate from this. So,  we are still talking  among ourselves. “Plans for the congresses and convention are in top gear but you know, as a party, we want to improve on our record. “If you remember, we are also preparing for the Anambra State governorship primary coming up on the 26th, we can’t afford a distraction.” Spokesman for Concerned APC members, a pro-APC pressure group, Abdullahi Dauda, in response said, “ Our party’s future is at stake. We cannot afford to allow this convention issue drag for too long because we must deal with the issues which will definitely follow the Congresses and resolve them in good time. Any further delay in holding the convention, will mean to postpone the  evil day.” Acting National Secretary of the party, Senator John Akpanudoedehe, had in a statement said, “The Caretaker/ Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee, is focused and is delivering on its mandate to recover, rebuild and reposition the APC as well as achieve peace building, true reconciliation and to give a sense of belonging to every member of the party. “ end. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com