Despite heavy security, the June 12 protest by members of the Civil Society held at the Pleasure Park in Port Harcourt, Rivers State capital on Saturday. The protest which was initially scheduled to begin at 8 am at the Port Harcourt Pleasure Park saw a low turnout up till about 11 am when more protesters joined. Several police vans with the ‘operation sting’ label filled with security operatives were present at the rally ground. Leader of the protesters and Chairman, Rivers State Civil Society Organisation, Enefaa Georgewill, said no amount of intimidation or threats can stop the CSOs from expressing themselves through protest or rally. “We are here to make a statement to say that this current government is not ready to be democratic. “This government is not ready to allow the civic space and allow Nigerians to freely express themselves by banning twitter because one individual was banned from using the platform. “The Federal Government led by President Muhammadu Buhari banned us from using Twitter. Meanwhile, our laws, specifically section 39 of the 1999 Constitution expressly states that citizens have the right to freely express themselves. And that nobody should interfere. The President that was elected under a democratic regime violated a section of our constitution. “Therefore, we are saying that Buhari must go. We are equally saying that one of the reasons why he was elected into office was that he promised Nigerians he is going to provide security. “He promised that the Killings in this part of the country will stop. Surprisingly, from the North to the West, to the South, even down here in Rivers State, selling of body parts is becoming a trend.” Also speaking, the coordinator of the Take-it-back movement in the state, Henry Amirize, said freedom of speech and association was a fundamental human right enshrined in the Nigerian constitution. Meanwhile, the state Commissioner of Police, Eboka Frida, who met the protesters midway said he has gone round Rivers State, adding that everywhere was peaceful. “I have gone round Rivers State and my Divisional Police Officers are also moving around. I have discovered that there is no disturbance. “There is even no demonstration in Rivers State. What I see here (protest) is just a small rally and it was peaceful. Rivers State is very peaceful,” he stated.