THE recent conviction of a former member of the House of Representatives, Farouk Lawan, for receiving a bribe of $500,000 nine years after the crime occurred typifies the snail’s pace with which the wheels of justice turn in Nigeria. This is especially common in cases involving politically exposed persons. Lawan, who was the chairman of an ad hoc committee set up by the House in 2012 to investigate a massive petrol subsidy fraud, was caught in a sting operation demanding a bribe of $3 million from a business baron, Femi Otedola. Lawan was subsequently arraigned before Mudashiru Oniyangi, a judge of the Federal Capital Territory High Court, for corruption in 2013. But before the case could proceed, Oniyangi was elevated to the Court of Appeal and the matter was reassigned to another judge, Adebukola Banjoko. The trial had to begin afresh. In the usual strategy of delaying tactics adopted by high-profile accused persons, the defendant accused Banjoko of bias and asked that the case be handed over to yet another judge. This delayed the case by another year. Subsequently, the case was reassigned to a new judge, Angela Otaluka, sometime in 2015, but before the case could commence again, the prosecution decided to amend the charges. When the case eventually started, and witnesses had been called from both sides, Lawan, in 2017, again accused the new judge of bias and asked the Chief Judge of the FCT High Court to reassign it to another judge. Curiously, the CJ acquiesced to the request and the case was assigned to Yusuf Halilu. After many complaints from the prosecution, the FCT CJ returned the case to Otaluka in 2018 and it was eventually concluded in June 2021. Indeed, it is utterly incomprehensible that more than six years after the Administration of Criminal Justice Act came into effect, high-profile cases have continued to be delayed due to the acquiescence of judges. The defendants succeed in their plots with the connivance of mostly senior advocates who use all manner of tactics to frustrate the prosecution of high-profile persons. There is also the duplicitous practice of lawyers bribing judges to pervert justice. Sadly, the Nigerian Bar Association has not done enough to clean its house. The Legal Practitioners Disciplinary Committee should wield the big stick by suspending the membership of lawyers who cross the line of rectitude. One of the advantages of the ACJA is that trials ought to run alongside preliminary objections, interlocutory appeals, and other applications. However, the CJs over-indulge PEPs by re-assigning cases away from judges who defendants frivolously accuse of bias. Also, the elevation of judges to appellate courts has made matters worse as cases are made to start afresh. In the past, trial judges who were elevated to the Court of Appeal were allowed to complete their cases so that such trials would not have to start afresh. However, the Supreme Court ruled in the corruption trial of a former governor of Abia State, Orji Kalu, that judges who have been elevated from the High Court to the Appeal Court cannot continue with their old cases, meaning all such cases will now have to start afresh. With such an obstacle, it is unlikely that things will improve anytime soon. A tally by this newspaper showed that over 50 mostly high-profile cases would have to start afresh following the Supreme Court’s judgement. And with the recent elevation of 18 justices to the Court of Appeal in April, hundreds of more cases are expected to start afresh at the trial court. This is inimical to the fight against graft in a country, which Transparency International ranks as one of the world’s most corrupt. Of all the former governors with corruption cases, only two – Jolly Nyame of Taraba State and Joshua Dariye of Plateau State – have been convicted in the past six years while several other cases continue to move at a snail’s pace. The case of former Rivers State Governor, Peter Odili, has stalled at the Court of Appeal for nearly 13 years after he obtained a perpetual injunction which even the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), which claims the fight against corruption as its primary goal, has failed to vacate. There needs to be better coordination of corruption cases as the inter-agency rivalry has also undermined the speed of prosecution. For instance, both the State Security Service and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission are separately prosecuting a former National Security Adviser, Sambo Dasuki, who is accused of a $2.1 billion arms diversion scam. Unsurprisingly, the case has failed to reach a logical conclusion in the last six years. The anti-corruption crusade could also be boosted through the creation of special courts for corruption cases while time limits should be imposed on corruption trials as is being done for election cases. The Attorney-General of the Federation must stop the habit of abruptly taking over and ending prosecutions midway as was done in the case of a senator and former governor, Danjuma Goje, and ex-bank executive, Dauda Lawal. Such actions send the wrong signals to the judiciary and constitute a waste of public funds. Nigeria should expedite action to amend the constitution to accommodate aspects of the ACJA such that the elevation of judges would not affect cases at the trial court. The judiciary needs to be decentralised. The United States, whose system Nigeria claims to be emulating, has appeal and supreme courts at the state level, which interpret state laws. This helps reduce the number of cases at federal courts. Punishment and the quick dispensation of justice are critical in the fight against corruption. If some feel they can beat the system by delaying the wheels of justice, impunity will continue to reign. The judiciary must accord all persons equality before the law and be blind to social status. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com