The managing director and chief executive officer of Rotimax Integrated Services, Mr Tolu Caleb, has urged Nigerians to always maintain clean environment and also prioritise pest control to avoid disease outbreaks. Caleb, at the World Pest Day briefing held in the firm’s office in Lagos on Friday, said sests have direct impacts on peoples’ health. He said the significant of the celebration was to share knowledge about pest management and raise the awareness on protect food, homes, families, lives and businesses from pests. “Mosquito bites result in the deaths of more than one million people throughout the world every year and the spread of malaria in Africa. Malaria is a life-threatening disease caused by parasites that are transmitted to people through the bites of infected female anopheles mosquitoes. It is preventable and curable. “Rats, mice, cockroaches, and other pests carry many human pathogens. Cockroaches, Cockroaches are synonymous with filth and poor hygiene. Their feeding and nesting habits mean they can accumulate a range. Cockroaches can transmit the following diseases; salmonellosis, typhoid fever, cholera, dysentery, leprosy, plague, campylobacteriosis, listeriosis3. Cockroaches can also trigger asthma and other allergies as well as spread E. coli, staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus. “Bed bugs can come into the home from the outside if they manage to latch themselves onto your clothing. They hide between the sheets and come out at night to bite. Their bites cause painful red sores. Spiders deliver both harmless and dangerous bites, depending on the species. The most poisonous require medical treatment,” Caleb said. The expert added that the coronavirus pandemic had brought to the limelight the need for pest control. World Pest Day was celebrated on June 6. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com