An Abuja-based lawyer, Emeka Okoye, has dragged the Federal Government, 36 states of the federation and the Federal Account Allocation Committee to court over the issue of the financial autonomy of the judiciary. In a suit filed at the Federal High Court, Abuja and marked FHC/ABJ/CS/502/2021, the plaintiff through his counsel, Oba Maduabuchi SAN, asked the court to make an order directing the FAAC to henceforth pay all monies for the judiciary directly to the National Judicial Council. He also asked the court to make an order “directing the Accountant General of each state of the federation to pay directly to each head of court in the state, all such fund standing to the credit of the judiciary in the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the state.” The plaintiff also asked the court to determine “Whether by the provisions of sections 121 (1), (2) and (3) of the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended), it is proper for the state Governor to include the budgetary expenditure of the judiciary in the state which is charged upon the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the state in the budgetary estimates the Governor presents to the state House of Assembly? “Whether by the provisions of section 121 (3) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended), it is proper to pay funds standing to the credit of the judiciary in the state to any other person or authority outside the heads of court in the various states as directed by section 121(3) of the 1999 constitution? “Whether by the community reading of sections 81(3), 121(3) and 162(9) of the 1999 constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended), the Federation Account Allocation Committee is right in paying the fund standing to the credit of the judiciary to various state Governors and not National Judicial Council as directed by the above sections of the constitution?” All the defendants in the suit including the Attorney General of the Federation, the Attorney General of the 36 states and FAAC have been summoned to enter appearance within 30 days of service. However, no date has been fixed for the suit. The suit was filed following the recent issue on the financial autonomy of the judiciary which led to the strike by the Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria on April 6, 2021. The strike was suspended on June 9. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com