Experts have alleged political power play as the European Union has faulted the AstraZeneca vaccine donated to Nigeria and other African countries. The African Union and Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention had raised the alarm that the European Union does not recognise a vaccine the vaccine donated to through the COVAX initiative. According to the Cable News Network, the AU and CDC, raised concern after it emerged that Europe’s digital ‘green pass’ only recognises AstraZeneca doses manufactured in Europe, branded Vaxzevria. The European Union Digital COVID-19 Certificate, according to CNN, enables people who have received two doses of a COVID-19 vaccine approved by its medicines regulator, the European Medicines Agency, to travel freely within the bloc. But the pass does not recognise doses manufactured by the world’s largest vaccine manufacturer, the Serum Institute of India, which is branded Covishield. The EMA told CNN in a statement that Vaxzevria is only COVID-19 shot from AstraZeneca for which approval was requested, leading to its authorisation in the EU. “In the EU, the vaccine called Covishield does not currently have a marketing authorisation. Even though it may use an analogous production technology to Vaxzevria, Covishield as such is not currently approved under EU rules,” the EMA said. “This is because vaccines are biological products. Even tiny differences in the manufacturing conditions can result in differences in the final product, and EU law, therefore, requires the manufacturing sites and production process to be assessed and approved as part of the authorisation process. “Should we receive a marketing authorisation application for Covishield or should any change to the approved manufacturing sites for Vaxzevria be approved, we would communicate about it,” the EMA statement said. The President of the Academy of Medicine Specialties, Prof. Oladapo Ashiru, in an interview with our correspondent, on Tuesday, said the ban was political because of the Brexit factor. He said, “Regardless of the vaccine you have taken, you still have to do the COVID-19 test before you take a flight and on arrival. I believe the EU is playing politics with AstraZeneca because it belongs to the United Kingdom and because the Brexit factor. A medical virologist at the Adeleke University, Ede, Osun State, Oladipo Kolawole, while corroborating Ashiru, said there was nothing to worry about. “With time, this will be sorted out; there is nothing to worry about. I want to believe that if the Serum Institute of India can submit to the rules of EU for approval with the help of AstraZeneca, within the shortest period everything will be sorted out. “The AstraZeneca vaccine being administered in Nigeria and other African countries is not fake; the major concern is that the Vaxzevria is only COVID-19 shot from AstraZeneca for which approval was requested, leading to its authorisation in the EU and emergency authorisation by the World Health Organisation. “Serum Institute of India manufactured Covishield and this was not submitted for approval under EU rules as said by EMA. The concern is that vaccines are biological products and any tiny differences in the manufacturing conditions can result in differences in the final product, this is not a challenge at all, African Union and African CDC will work something out on this.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com