World Athletics has deleted the names of Shehu Gusau and Siminialayi Pepple as President and General Director respectively of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria from its website. The move by the world athletics body is coming just days after two AFN parallel elections on June 14 ushered in incumbent Gusau and Tonobok Okowa as factional presidents of the federation. Checks by our correspondent on Tuesday showed that the names of Gusau and Pepple, which were there previously, have been deleted from the website. The space where their names previously appeared on the website, was however left empty, with no names or designation imputed. Further checks by our correspondent revealed that the telephone numbers of Pepple and Sunday Adeleye, vice president of the Gusau-led AFN, were still on the WA website. A source in the Gusau camp, who spoke to our correspondent on the condition of anonymity, also confirmed that the group had been logged out of the WA website. “We have also been logged out from the WA website, so we cannot access the email any longer. We don’t know why they did that,” the source told The PUNCH. Our correspondent learnt that Gusau had written to the WA, complaining of not having access to the official AFN email any longer. The AFN had been in crisis since 2019 after the Gusau-led board of the AFN declared autonomy from the sports ministry at a congress in Awka, Anambra State. This resulted in the suspension of Gusau and his supporters by other members of the board, led by then AFN vice president Olamide George. Gusau was eventually impeached and George made the acting president. He however approached the court to quash his suspension and impeachment, and won at the Federal High Court and the Court of Appeal. The sports ministry, however, failed to recognise him as the AFN president. In a bid to resolve the crisis, the WA and the Confederation of African Athletics sent a representative to Nigeria to meet with the sports ministry and both factions in April, where they were mandated to hold an election latest June 14. The issue was however not resolved, as both factions held their elections in Kebbi and Abuja respectively, with Gusau and Okowa returned as presidents. The PUNCH reported on Tuesday that the WA said they were yet to take a decision on the AFN election, as they were still studying the reports. In a follow-up email sent to our correspondent Tuesday evening, WA said they were yet to have an update on the issue. “We don’t have an update yet. We’re still verifying the information we’ve received from Nigeria,” Nicole Jeffery, WA Head of Communications, stated in an email to our correspondent. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com