THE Newspapers Proprietors’ Association of Nigeria has said it is considering attending the public hearing on the Nigerian Press Council Amendment Bill on Thursday (today) despite not been invited by the National Assembly. NPAN expressed surprise that as a stakeholder in the public media space, its members were not invited to such public hearing, adding that the development was contrary to the early practice when it was invited by the last Senate. In a statement by its President, Kabiru Yusuf, titled, ‘Why exclude the Press from the public hearing on the Nigerian Press Council Bill?’, the association urged Nigerian journalists and their organisations to pay attention to the public hearing. According to NPAN, the public hearing may have consequences on freedom of the press in particular, and good governance in general. The statement read in part, “The Newspaper Proprietors’ Association of Nigeria (NPAN), has received with surprise, news of a public hearing scheduled for today, Thursday, June 17, 2021, on the Nigerian Press Council Amendment Bill. “As a stakeholder in the Nigerian media space, we don’t understand why print media owners have not been invited to participate in the hearing. This is contrary to earlier practice when the NPAN was invited to a public hearing on the same bill in the last Senate. “This time around, we find it strange that we would get to know of this development by sheer happenstance. We therefore call on the leadership of the National Assembly, and the House of Representatives in particular, to redress this anomaly. “We also call on all media workers and their organisations to pay attention to the public hearing which may have important consequences on the freedom of the Press in particular and good governance in general.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com