The Federal Capital Territory Police Command has arrested a 20-year-old man, Danladi Abubakar, for allegedly killing a yet-to-be identified woman. Abubakar was said to have stabbed his victim to death with a knife after snatching her mobile phone at Kasuwa-Dere in the Gwagwalada area of the FCT. The command’s spokesperson, Mariam Yusuf, said in a statement on Sunday that the suspect was arrested by police detectives from Gwagwalada following an intelligence report. Yusuf said one of his victims identified the suspect, who confessed that he belongs to a notorious phone snatching syndicate operating in the area. The statement read in part, “The FCT Police Command has arrested one suspect for culpable homicide in the Kasuwa-Dere, Gwagwalada area. “Acting on credible intelligence, the suspect, one Danladi Abubakar, 20, was arrested by police detectives from the Gwagwalada Division for the gruesome murder of a yet-to-be identified middle-aged woman. “The suspect, who was identified by another victim, confessed to being a member of a notorious phone snatching syndicate operating in the Gwagwalada area. “Exhibits recovered are one sharp knife used for stabbing the deceased and one Tecno phone belonging to the late woman.” The police spokesperson added that operatives on patrol also foiled a robbery attempt at a hotel in the Kubwa area. Yusuf said one of the suspects, who sustained gunshot injuries, was pronounced dead when the police rushed him to hospital. She added that one Baretta pistol, one silver Mazda space wagon and number plates were recovered from the late suspect. Yusuf stated that efforts were on to arrest the fleeing suspects. She said, “Also, police operatives from the Kubwa Division foiled an armed robbery attempt at a hotel in the Kubwa area. “The operatives, who were on routine patrol, engaged the robbers in a fierce gun duel, however, one of the suspects sustained serious gunshot injuries, was rushed to the hospital where the doctor confirmed him dead. “Exhibits recovered from the late suspect are one Baretta pistol, three rounds, silver Mazda space wagon and number plates. Effort is in top gear to arrest the fleeing suspects.” She said the suspects would be arraigned upon the conclusion of investigation.    ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com