The organised labour, comprising the Nigeria Labour Congress and Trade Union Congress, will today (Tuesday) begin an indefinite strike in Nasarawa State due to poor workers’ welfare. The Chairman of the Nigeria Labour Congress in the state, Yusuf Iya, said this during a press briefing on Monday in Lafia, the state capital. Iya explained that poor treatment of workers by the Nasarawa State Government made the organised labour embarked on the indefinite strike after several years of being patient with the government. Some of the complaints made by the union include lack of promotion, lack of annual increment of salaries, lack of training, non-payment of gratuity, non payment of local government staff, including primary school teachers, and non-implementation of minimum wage. Comrade Iya said, “We are calling on the state government to demonstrate genuine commitment by ensuring that our demands are met considering the long period it has taken and the continued assurance by the present administration that it will meet up with our demands. “Workers in the state have been stagnated for over a decade hence the need for government to implement promotions at hand. As for the promotion yet to be issued from 2018, we call on the government to process them and issue to deserving workers immediately,” he said. He added, “The Nasarawa State Government should as a matter of urgency key into the contributing pension scheme to relieve the government the huge burden of pension and gratuity found in the state. “We hereby direct all public servants in the state, including private sector workers who are affiliates to the Nigeria Labour Congress and Trade Union Congress, to proceed on an indefinite strike action as from Tuesday, June 15, 2021 until when our demands are met.” The Chairman of the Trade Union Congress in the state, Mohammed Doma, said, “The decision to embark on an indefinite strike action is our collective decision and it is a case of no retreat, no surrender. We have suffered for a long time.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com