Governors elected on platform of the Peoples Democratic Party have berated the Senior Special Assistant to the President, Garba Shehu, for doing a poor job of putting together a response to a communique issued after their meeting in Uyo. The governors described the presidential response to the communique as a ‘poorly worded and pedestrian.’ In a statement titled, ‘Presidential Response to PDP Governors’ Forum Communique Is a Disgrace,’ signed by the Director General of the forum, C.I.D. Maduabum, in Abuja, on Thursday, the governors stated that the presidency’s response to the patriotic and weighty issues of state they raised in their communique after meeting betrays the abysmal ignorance, lack of appreciation of the issues raised in the PDP communique. Maduabum said, “It is unbelievable that such low-quality response could come from Nigeria’s seat of power. “He celebrates the non-remittance of funds by NNPC to the Federation Account because they should not ‘break the bank’ for PDP Governors. What a pity! “The duty and responsibility of NNPC to pay revenues into the Federation Account is not a matter of discretion by NNPC. It is an imposition of law. “The constitutional provisions on Public Revenue are clear. Section 162. (1) of the Constitution says: ‘The Federation shall maintain a special account to be called ‘the Federation Account’ into which shall be paid all revenues collected by the Government of the Federation, except the proceeds from the personal income tax of the personnel of the Armed Forces of the Federation, the Nigeria Police Force, the Ministry or Department of Government charged with responsibility for Foreign Affairs and the residents of the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja.” The PDPGF equally noted that it was sad that the presidential aide glossed over the economic dangers inherent in the fall of the naira against major currencies of the world especially the United States dollar. Maduabum said, “The implication of the fall of the naira for cost of goods and services, including the price of food and basic needs of Nigerians is becoming unbearable for the average Nigerian.” Also, the PDP spoke in a similar fashion in a statement titled, PDP To Buhari: Our Governors Don’t Peddle Falsehood Like You,’ signed by the National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan. The party said it was appalled by the unwarranted attack and name calling by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), against the governors elected on the party’s platform. Ologbondiyan said, “For the avoidable of doubts, the PDP insists that our governors are responsible and responsive leaders who have always shown concerns towards the plight of Nigerians. “It is on record that they attend to the wishes of Nigerians in their respective states and do not by any whim recourse to peddling of fake news and lies like the Buhari Presidency and his All Progressives Congress.”