Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company Plc has said it is working towards completing the Kobape transmission line project by September in a bid to improve power supply to residents of Mowe and others. The Chief Operating Officer of IBEDC, John Ayodele, at a meeting with community leaders from Mowe-Ibafo-Magboro, said the project was being done to alleviate the challenges facing the communities. The communities had recently rejected a load rotation policy initiated by the company. Ayodele said, “We fully identify with your challenges. Government intervention allowed us to be able to borrow a N21bn loan to fund our operational costs since September 2020. “The board of IBEDC decided to face Magboro and Mowe squarely because our mandate is to give you succour. We were able to access a N4.2bn loan facility from the central bank to address these challenges. Once we finish the projects, you will be able to get power from either Kobape or Sagamu.” He added the company would be routing two more lines through the Sagamu interchange, in addition to the current line. Ayodele said, “Currently, the projects have been approved, and we are projecting September for the completion date of at least one line. If that one can be ready, we will power it. “We have planned to separate Ibafo from Mowe, so the Oke-Aro line will continue to feed Ibafo and Magboro, while the new line, most definitely from Kobape, will feed Mowe.” Ayodele promised that after the completion of the project, the average number of hours of available power supply to the communities would rise to 16 hours daily from the current four hours. He said, “Once this is achieved, load rotation should be a thing of the past. We would like to appeal to the communities that they should ensure they pay their bills timely as this project is being funded with debt. “We only keep 20 per cent of all the revenue collected as we have to pay system and market operators. We want to concentrate on your areas for the long term and improve our services.” The community representatives voiced their concerns about the speed of the project, saying it was not moving fast enough. They expressed doubt over the September completion date the IBEDC boss gave, and complained about estimated billing and metering. Ayodele explained that estimated billing was unprofitable for the company, adding that the company had keyed into the National Mass Meter Programme, from which 100 thousand meters would be disbursed to selected communities in earnest. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com