PWC Nigeria has said there is a big task for family businesses, especially in Nigeria, to effectively manage emerging risks by adopting business resilience measures across all service lines. According to PwC’s global family business survey for 2021, 41 per cent of family businesses in Nigeria expect a decline in sales growth this year. The survey, which builds on PwC’s long-time involvement in supporting family businesses around the world, examines the views of 2,801 family business leaders and decision-makers across 87 territories, according to a statement. It said, “Other key findings from the Family Business Survey 2021 report include: 63 per cent say one of their key priorities over the next two years is introducing new products/services well over the global average of 50 per cent; 60 per cent say that their digital capabilities are not strong, but only 34 per cent have deemed it a priority. “It is a similar picture globally. 50 per cent have no governance policies (21 per cent globally). Seventy per cent say that in order to succeed going forward they must deliver greater benefits for the planet and human society (global 53 per cent). A Partner and Family Business Leader PwC Nigeria, Esiri Agbeyi, said, “With global disruptions like COVID-19, there is the need to focus on factors that turn current businesses into legacies for generations to come. “There is a big task for family businesses, especially in Nigeria to effectively manage emerging risks by adopting business resilience measures across all service lines – sales, production, human capital, technology and research.” According to the statement, although some family businesses have thrived relatively well, the COVID-19 pandemic revealed some of the lapses in family businesses in Nigeria. “Of utmost importance is the need to build trust, improve on effective governance, ply the digital transformation route and embrace innovative financing for business expansion and diversification if these businesses would continue to thrive and play the very crucial role they are saddled with in the society,” it said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com