Zenith Bank Plc says it has been recognised by the Ethical Boardroom for the second consecutive year for its adherence to global best practices and institutionalisation of corporate governance. The bank said this on Wednesday in a statement titled ‘Zenith Bank named Best Corporate Governance ‘Financial Services’ in Africa 2021’. It stated that the award, which was published in the June 2021 edition of The Ethical Boardroom magazine, was in recognition of the bank’s adherence to global best practices and institutionalisation of corporate governance, setting an industry-wide example of best practices in that field. Commenting on the award, the Group Managing Director/Chief Executive of Zenith Bank, Mr Ebenezer Onyeagwu, said, “This recognition is a testament to our commitment to quality, accountability, fairness and transparency in our engagement with all stakeholders.” This award came after several awards and recognitions that had come the way of bank in recent times for its track record of excellent performance and commitment to global best practices, according to the statement. It said, “Zenith Bank was voted as Bank of the Year (Nigeria) in The Banker’s Bank of the Year Awards 2020; Best Bank in Nigeria in the Global Finance World’s Best Banks Awards 2020 and 2021; and Best Corporate Governance ‘Financial Services’ Africa 2020 by the Ethical Boardroom. “Also, the bank emerged as the Most Valuable Banking Brand in Nigeria in the Banker Magazine Top 500 Banking Brands 2020 and 2021; and number one bank in Nigeria by Tier-1 Capital in the ‘2020 Top 1000 World Banks’ Ranking by The Banker Magazine. “Similarly, the bank was recognised as Bank of the Decade (People’s Choice) at the ThisDay Awards 2020, Retail Bank of the year at the 2020 BusinessDay Banks and Other Financial Institutions (BOFI) Awards, and Best Company in Promotion of Good Health and Well-Being as well as Best Company in Promotion of Gender Equality and Women Empowerment at the Sustainability, Enterprise and Responsibility Awards 2020.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com