The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, on Thursday, promised Nigerians that the National Assembly will give speedy approval to the N895bn supplementary budget announced by the Federal Executive Council on Wednesday. Lawan said this in Abuja while announcing a N10m donation by the ninth Senate as part of activities to mark its two years of inauguration. He said the money would be used to provide relief materials to internally displaced persons in Wassa Camp in Abuja, to cushion their sufferings. Lawan, while addressing the displaced persons, said the camp was a consequence of the security situation in the country which must be tackled by ensuring that the displaced persons return to their various homes. He said, “The National Assembly has been doing all it could with the executive arm of government to bring an end to the series of challenges of insecurity confronting the country. “The Federal Executive Council, as reported in the media on Wednesday, has prepared N895bn supplementary budget to be forwarded to both chambers of the National Assembly for approval. “Over N700bn from the N895bn supplementary budget is earmarked for tackling all forms of insecurity problems in the country, the very reason the National Assembly will give it expeditious consideration and passage when received.” He described the displaced persons in the camp as Nigerians who have every right like other Nigerians. Lawan said, “None of the people here wanted or wished to be here. They are indeed symptoms of insecurity we face. We must be able to give them food to eat. Their safety and integrity must be ensured and protected. “On our part, as senators, we have come with N10m worth relief materials for them and urged all the relevant agencies to see to their upkeep from time to time, pending when the required normalcy and security restored to their respective villages and settlements.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com