Manchester United dominates the Premier League, Al Ahly takes over the Egyptian Premier League, Bayern Munich leads the records in Bundesliga, and the list goes on. Yet for Nigeria, one of its pride and glory is Enyimba. Also known as People’s Elephant and The Aba Warriors, Enyimba is the country’s most decorated and biggest club in history, gaining prominence in the 2000s. Here’s a story that unfolds their remarkable success despite the decades of struggle in establishing a name in the sport. Founding years: A shift in ownership Before representing the city of Aba, Enyimba was formerly a state-owned club in the newly created province in southeast Nigeria: Imo State. Founded in November 1976 by Sir Jerry Amadi Enyeazu, then known as the state’s first Director of Sports, they were a struggling team reaching the likes of Enugu Rangers, Shooting Stars, and Bendel Insurance. A shift in politics and geography shed light on the team’s strong potential. Following the further division of Imo State in August 1991, where the newly-formed Abia State included Aba City, a new state government took control of the club’s squad, facilities, and live bet soccer friendlies. Peaks and troughs in the 1990s Enyimba’s fame began in 1990, following when the country’s top-flight division was renamed into ‘Nigerian Professional League’. Although it was a good sign, that still wasn’t enough for them. Instead, they worked their way throughout the 90s to establish their name clearly visible on the upper portion of the standings. It was full of peaks and troughs, but it was worthwhile. Their first two seasons were as if holding onto a cliffside. Out of the league’s 16 clubs, they placed 13th and 15th, respectively. In 1992 came their most frightening nightmare. They were relegated to the second division until 1993. The 1994 season was their highest achievement. They were back in the top level and finished in third after BCC Lions and Shooting Stars. However, that limelight rapidly declined because they had a series of mediocre performances until 1998. The 2000s: New decade, new opportunities The Aba Warriors welcomed the new decade with a blast under the guidance of coach Godwin Koko Uwa. Not only did they bag their first Nigerian championship title in 2001, but they also continued that dominance the following years, both in domestic and foreign tournaments. Now, they are the country’s most successful club for having the most number of league titles, the first and only Nigerian club to win the African Champions League twice, and one of the top clubs that source talented players for the Super Eagles team. In 2003, they were named Africa’s best team, with coach Kadir Ikhana as the best coach. 45-year history: Domestic and foreign championships Their records brim with excellence and significant milestones, and it was their road towards greatness that painted their nickname ‘warriors’. So, below are their domestic and foreign awards that highlight their 45 years of history. 8 NPFL 4 Nigerian FA Cup (AITEO Cup) 4 Nigeria Super Cup 1 Nigeria National League 2 CAF Champions League 2 CAF Super Cup Virtually support Enyimba 24/7 It has been two decades since Enyimba captured their first title — the beginning of the many possibilities for a team to achieve. What used to be a struggling name in the past now has more than five million fans worldwide. If you are among that resounding number, continue to support them as you keep track of their live bet soccer matches and up-to-date information online.