The senator representing Delta North, Peter Nwaoboshi, has described the Wednesday decision of the Delta State Working Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party to suspend him as laughable. He said his suspension, which he further described as unconstitutional, was orchestrated by “anti-democratic forces masquerading as the State Working Committee.” The PDP State Publicity Secretary, Dr Ifeanyi Osuoza, had in a statement after an emergency meeting announced the senator’s suspension. Nwaobishi’s reaction to his suspension was contained in a statement made available to journalists on Thursday by his legislative aide, Philip Elueme. The statement was titled ‘Re: The purported suspension of Senator Peter Nwaoboshi by the state PDP.’ The senator argued that his suspension was against the principles of fair hearing as enshrined in the nation’s Constitution and the PDP constitution. He quoted Chapter 10, Article 57(7) of the party’s constitution as stating that notwithstanding any other provision relating to discipline, no executive committee at any level, except the National Executive Committee, shall entertain any question of discipline as may relate or concern a member of the National Executive committee, Deputy Governors or members of the National Assembly. The statement added, “By these provisions, the State Working Committee has demonstrated complete undemocratic and anti-constitutional behaviour which has rendered its uncharitable pronouncement purportedly suspending the senator as null and void and of no consequence whatsoever. “In the light of the above abysmal development, the senator wishes to use this medium to beseech all his teeming supporters, loyalists and numerous party faithful in Delta State and beyond to remain calm in the face of this latest ridiculously irrational charade and unbecoming action by anti-democratic, ‘gestapo – fascists’ and forces of darkness, masquerading as party officials.” The statement claimed that the party officials are being teleguided by the Delta State Government House.