THE Nigerian Navy on Monday launched a new Landing Ship Tank at Damen Shipyard, Sharjah, United Arab Emirates. The new LST has a complement of 32 crew and 250 embarked persons and a length of 100.08m which is powered by two Caterpillar/Cat 3516 C-rating engines and four Caterpillar C-18 generators. The spokesperson for the Nigerian Navy, Suleman Dahun, disclosed this in a statement titled, ‘Nigerian Navy launches new warship’. Dahun stated that apart from replacing the old ships which had been decommissioned, the new vessel would serve as a critical component of naval power projection for enhanced maritime security in the Gulf of Guinea and beyond. It read, “The construction of the ship began about two years ago and when commissioned, the new ship would replace the first set of LSTs of the NN, NNS AMBE and NNS OFIOM which have been decommissioned. “The introduction of the LST to the Navy inventory will bolster sealift capability. Specifically, it will enhance the transportation of troops, military hardware, vehicles in the conduct of maritime security operations launched from sea as well as supply of relief material during period of national emergency. “Furthermore, the vessel will serve as a critical component of naval power projection for enhanced maritime security in the Gulf of Guinea and beyond. “In its secondary role, the LST will play a critical role in the protection of maritime assets and preservation of law and order at sea, thus contributing significantly to promotion of global maritime commerce, peace and safety.” According to the statement, the bid opening process for the procurement of the LST was held on December 19, 2017 and supervised by a team from the Bureau of Public Procurement as well as a technical committee of the Nigerian Navy. It listed the shipbuilding companies that participated to include Damen Shipyards of the Netherlands, Anadolu Deniz of Turkey and Indian Shipyards GOA of India. It added, “On June 13, 2019, the NN and Damen Shipyards signed the final general arrangement plan and specifications on the LST 100 and this date of June 13, 2019 became the effective date of contract for the LST 100.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com