The Governing Council of the University of Lagos, Akoka, has sacked Dr Boniface Igbeneghu of the Department of European Languages and Integration Studies and Dr Samuel Oladipo of the Department of Economics. A statement by the school said the governing approved the dismissal of both lecturers over the allegations of sexual harassment levelled against them in a British Broadcasting Corporation World Service Investigative Series, Africa Eye. The statement was signed by the Registrar, UNILAG, Mr Azeez Oladejo. It reads, “The Governing Council of the University of Lagos, at its meeting on Monday, May 31, 2021, approved the immediate dismissal of Dr Boniface Igbeneghu of the Department of European Languages and Integration Studies, Faculty of Arts and Dr Samuel Omoniyi Oladipo of the Department of Economics, Faculty of Social Sciences, from the services of the University. “Council, at its meeting, considered the report and findings of the Senate Committee set up to investigate the allegations of sexual harassment levelled against them in a British Broadcasting Corporation World Service Investigative Series titled, AFRICA EYE, (which centred on sexual harassment in tertiary institutions). “The Council consequently decided and approved that both Dr Boniface Igbeneghu and Dr Samuel Omoniyi Oladipo be dismissed from the services of the university for misconduct, with effect from Monday, May 31, 2021 in line with section 18 of the University of Lagos Act 1967. “Council further directed that the management should review the sexual harassment policy as may be necessary and institute effective strategies to prevent future occurrence.” Recall that in October 2019, the BBC produced a documentary exposing four lecturers – two from UNILAG and two from the University of Ghana, Legon – for allegedly harassing undercover reporters, who posed as students in need of help. The release of the footage had drawn outrage from many Nigerians. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com