Blessing Idowu, 25, is a fashion designer and the Creative Director of House of Siv. She tells TOFARATI IGE about her business What do you do? Apart from being a fashion designer, I also do make-up and style wigs. I love fashion and beauty. We create all kind of wears, ranging from casuals to bridal styles. I am also in the process of creating another arm of the business where we would create and style wigs. What is your educational background? I have a Bachelor’s degree in Computer Science from the University of Les Cours Sonuo, Benin Republic. Do you have any corporate work experience? I don’t have any corporate work experience. I always knew I was going to focus on fashion designing and was opportune to learn and grow my skills at an early age. I never had a reason to consider corporate work. When and how did you start your business? I started working right from secondary school with my mum who is also a fashion designer. I learnt the skill from her and also learnt how to manage customers and employees. While working with my mum, I had a different niche, so to say. I developed a somewhat different style from hers and was recognised for that, which helped in building my own customer base alongside hers, since we had different markets. What motivated you to start your own business? My mum is my biggest motivation. I was inspired by her passion to create beautiful and meticulously-designed pieces for customers. The joy she gets from doing her business and getting positive feedback from customers were also encouraging factors. I was also motivated by friends and family members, especially my sisters, who have an understanding of the business. That really helped in building my confidence in the skill enough to start my own business in the fashion industry. I cannot also forget to mention my brother and dad who supported my decision to start a business and kept me motivated to keep going. When one has ideas, one may want to give up if one does not have support. How much was your initial capital and how did you raise it? I did not need any capital to start. I started by working with my mum, so everything was available to me from the start. I just had to build a trusting customer base for myself from there. What are the major challenges you’ve faced? Having to travel for school and the National Youth Service Corps scheme had some effect on the growth of my business. Yes, it sort of helped in expanding my business reach but in terms of establishing a home base for the business and keeping customers, it posed some challenges. How do you get customers? I get most of my customers through referrals. Social media platforms such as Instagram also help to an extent. Sometimes, new customers just walk into the store. I have not  advertised officially per se. I only drive visibility organically through Instagram and Facebook for now. Have you ever thought of quitting and seeking paid employment? I have never considered that. I cannot even picture myself working in paid employment at this stage. I experienced independence with work early and I cannot imagine the situation being otherwise. How profitable is the business? From my experience, I would say it has been quite profitable. What other skills do you possess? Aside from fashion designing, I am also into make-up and hairstyling. I also occasionally do party decorations and drawing. Where do you see yourself and your business in the next five years? I see myself becoming a household name in Nigeria and being among one of the top 10 designers in the world. By that time, I hope to have stores all over major cities. I would also loved to have helped others develop their skills and start their business in this line. How many employees do you have? I have three members of staff at the moment. What is the most influential factor in your business’ success? The grace of God has been the biggest influence. Support from my parents, siblings and friends have also been invaluable. I also appreciate amazing customers that always refer others to me. What advice do you have for people just starting out their businesses? Don’t limit yourself. Explore, learn and grow as you go. Don’t limit yourself to what you have learnt from someone or what you see around you. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com