Chief Uche Ugwoji, a grassroots politician and businessman, on Monday, emerged as the candidate of the Zenith Labour Party for the November 6 governorship election in Anambra. Ugwoji, the sole aspirant for the ZLP ticket, was unanimously nominated via the raising of hands and a ‘yes’ vote by the delegates present at the congress held at Choice Hotel, Awka. The primary election was conducted by an election panel chaired by Dr Obiorah Ifoh, who said the process was in line with section 87(6) of the Electoral Act as amended. “We will adopt any three methods of voting; one is by affirmation, two is by raising of hands and three, by secret ballot. “For the purpose of this election, we will adopt the show of hands method,” he had said. Ifoh said ZLP has a grassroots touch with a presence in all the 326 electoral wards across the 21 local government areas of Anambra. He commended members in Anambra for growing the party rapidly while urging them to work assiduously for the success of the candidate in the main election. According to him, the election in Anambra, for ZLP, is like the fight between David and Goliath, but the party has what it takes to occupy Government House after the poll. “ZLP has gained political strength from different states and has become among the top five political parties,” he said. In his acceptance speech, Ugwoji said he would deploy his experience in politics to ensure internal democracy and project the state to the limelight. “I will attract development to Anambra because of my grassroot knowledge of politics. We have every resource to take over the state come November 6, 2021. “If you employ me as your Chief Servant, I will deploy all the global and national experiences and networks, as well as local knowledge as a village boy to make you proud. “I am a Pan-Africanist and hope to work with other leaders in the South East and Nigeria to create the next Nigeria that will be the pride of the black race,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that until his nomination as governorship candidate, Ugwoji was the chairman of ZLP in Anambra. (NAN)