Men of the Delta State Police Command have arrested a suspect, who used a dummy gun to force his victims to transfer money into a bank account. The 18-year-old suspect, Emmanuel Peace, was nabbed with a dummy wooden gun around 9.10pm on Sunday after he successfully forced an aged couple to transfer the sum of N600,000 to an account number belonging to one Anwanga Abasi Nathaniel Udo. The bubble burst for the suspect when the Divisional Police Officer of the Okpanam Division, in response to a distress call, swiftly deployed patrol teams in the locality. The caller had informed the DPO that a robber, who was armed with a gun, entered the house of the victims and forced those who did not have cash to transfer money to an account. It was gathered that the patrol teams, on getting to the scene, cordoned off the area and arrested the suspect with a dummy wooden gun. The acting Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Bright Edafe, told our correspondent that other exhibits recovered from the suspect included two knives and torchlight. The police spokesman said investigation into the incident was ongoing. In a similar development, the Eagle-Net Special Squad of the command, while on routine patrol/stop-and-search duty on the Ughelli-Warri Expressway, on Monday around 11.30am, intercepted a blue Toyota Picnic car with number plate AAA 464 YA with six male occupants. According to the police, the countenance of some of the passengers aroused suspicion, hence they were asked to disembark for a search. In the process of searching them, three-locally made pistols, two mobile phones, power bank and N316,640 were found in the possession of two of the occupants. The two suspects, Kelvin Godstime, 20, of Upper Afisere in the Ughelli North Local Government Area, and Samson Ekutu, 23, of Ugbogeme, Udu Local Government Area of the state, were consequently arrested for investigation. Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police in the state, Muhammed Ali, has renewed his call to the DPOs and tactical commanders across the state to key into the intensive stop-and-search policing system, regular patrols and raid on black spots, noting that “proactive policing is key to crime prevention.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com