The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, has assured businessmen and women of Igbo descent, who are trading in various markets in the state, that their lives and properties are secured. This development followed a viral video which claimed that there was a plan to attack and burn down the Alaba International Market in the Ojo area of the state. Odumosu, at a meeting with market leaders on Wednesday, assured them of the command’s efforts in fortifying security in various markets to repel any attack. Odumosu said, “About 72 hours ago, a footage went viral, the person in the video alleged that Alaba International Market wants to be attacked but because we are always proactive in Lagos, we decided within ourselves to hold a meeting with all those that work and sell in that area and by extension all the major markets in the state. “We want them to know the preparedness of the command for any security breach that may come up and also to let them know that they should go about their lawful businesses without any fear of attack.” Odumosu charged the market leaders and factional market leaders to downplay disunity. “The market leaders should illuminate the market because in darkness, crime thrives. Nobody should be allowed to sleep in the market and people coming in from a long distance to offload goods should have a holding bay,” he added. Speaking, the Electronic Chairman, Alaba Market, Paulinus Ugochukwu, he said market leaders informed the police immediately they heard of the threat. The President, Coalition of Associations in Commuter Village, Timi-David Famuroti, urged “the government to make a policy that every market should have a CCTV camera that is centrally controlled.” In the video, a voice that sounded like that of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, had said, “They want to attack Alaba International Market and burn it down… I want to warn our people in Lagos to be on the alert and very vigilant because they are coming to burn Alaba Electronics Market.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com