The Union of European Football Associations has confirmed that Denmark’s Christian Eriksen has been hospitalized and is in stable condition after he passed out in the Danes’ Euro 2020 opener against Finland on Saturday, Sunday PUNCH reports. Eriksen collapsed on the pitch in Copenhagen, causing the suspension of the match in the first half. Television pictures showed Danish players in tears as medical staff tried to revive the Inter Milan player, who suddenly collapsed near the touchline. UEFA released a statement a few minutes after the former Tottenham star was stretchered off the pitch confirming he had been hospitalised and was in a stable condition. “Following the medical emergency involving Denmark’s player Christian Eriksen, a crisis meeting has taken place with both teams and match officials and further information will be communicated at 19:45 CET,” the statement read. “The player has been transferred to the hospital and has been stabilised.” UEFA president Aleksander Ceferin added, “Moments like this put everything in life into perspective. I wish Christian a full and speedy recovery and pray his family has strength and faith. “At these times, the unity of the football family is so strong and he and his family carry with them the good wishes and prayers of everyone. I heard of fans of both teams chanting his name. Football is beautiful and Christian plays it beautifully.” The statement comes as a huge relief after fans had flooded the social media with emotional messages for Eriksen, accompanied with the Danish flag and love-heart emojis. Following the request made by players of both teams UEFA agreed to restart the match between Denmark and Finland and the suspended match ended 1-0 in favour of Finland courtesy of a Joel Pohjanpalo 59 minute strike. It was Finland’s first goal at a major tournament, but the players had a muted celebration. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com