As more reactions trail the Federal Government’s ban of Twitter operations in Nigeria, the Centre for Social Justice on Monday said that the development will trigger an increase in the cost of production of goods across the country. It also said that foreign investors would now classify Nigeria as an undemocratic nation, as the ease of doing business would be retarded. The Lead Director, CSJ, Eze Onyekpere, told our correspondent that the ban on Twitter at a time of great economic and social crisis had many downsides without any evident upside. He said, “The downsides include increasing the cost of production of goods and service delivery; Twitter is a cheap means of driving traffic, advertisement in the ICT and other key sectors of the economy. “The ban will retard the ease of doing business as many of its services will now be done through resource and time-consuming methods which will make the business environment inclement.” He said the ban would make more Nigerians especially the younger generation jobless at a time the official unemployment rate was 33.3 per cent and the percentage of unemployed youths exceed the unemployment average of the overall population. Onyekpere said, “It will deter local and foreign investors who will see the country as undemocratic, without the rule of law and its due process where the ego, whims, and caprices of one man determines policy direction. “It will exacerbate insecurity considering that unemployment contributes to crime, criminality, and the pervasive insecurity across the nation.” The CSJ boss called on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to reconsider and lift the ban immediately. Onyekpere said the ban should be lifted in order to stop further irreparable damage to the Nigerian economy and to the economic and social rights of citizens. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com