Super Eagles coach Gernot Rohr has a huge task on his hands to end his side’s winless run of friendlies, as they take on Cameroon in the second of their doubleheader friendly games in Austria on Tuesday (today). Both teams face off again at the Wiener Neustadt Stadium, Vienna on Tuesday. The Eagles 1-0 defeat to Cameroon last Friday night means they are now on a run of six friendly games without a win. That’s a bit of a shock, given their unbeaten run in the 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers. In fact, Franco-German Rohr is now on the longest winless streak of his coaching career at international level. With the Eagles, Rohr last won a friendly game – against Egypt – in Asaba on March 29, 2019. The Eagles lost to Algeria and Senegal, recorded draws against Brazil, Ukraine and Tunisia, before Friday’s defeat to Cameroon, in friendlies in the last two years. Speaking ahead of the game, former Eagles winger Finidi George believes the Eagles can avenge Friday’s defeat. “We have individual talent to succeed, but what I want to see is how they perform as a unit. “They did well in the first game, but there was no flexibility,” George told The PUNCH. “I want to see more of team play and work and how they play together, which was not evident in the first game against Cameroon. “I want to see a different approach; they need to win to gain some confidence ahead of the World Cup qualifiers.” Former Eagles defender Sam Sodje said, “We have enough quality to get back to winning ways, but first we need to sort out the creative aspect of our play going forward. “The Eagles have the quality but they still need to be cohesive.” Meanwhile, the Eagles will be without injured defender William Troost-Ekong, who has been replaced by Ujpest FC of Hungary’s 25-year-old midfielder Vincent Onovo, for the game, while Jamilu Collins is also a major doubt for the tie. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com