Three days after the demise of the founder of the Synagogue Church of All Nations, Pastor Temitope Joshua, his family members on Tuesday gathered in Lagos State to plan his burial. Joshua died in Lagos on Sunday at the age of 57. Speaking with our correspondent on the telephone on Tuesday, an uncle of the deceased, Alhaji Salisu Musa, said the burial date had not been decided by the family. He said, “We (family members) have just arrived in Lagos; we are to hold a meeting to decide on the burial arrangement. As soon as we meet and decide, we shall let you know. “ Recall that the monarch of the hometown of the deceased, Arigidi Akoko in Akoko North Local Government Area of Ondo State, Oba Yisa Olanipekun, had appealed that the late SCOAN founder be buried in Arigidi Akoko. Meanwhile, the monarch of Ibaram Akoko, Oba Olusegun Atibioke, has called on the Ondo State Government to consider immortalising the late cleric by naming an institution in the state after Joshua. He also urged Balogun family to bury the late pastor in his hometown. Also, a source in Arigidi Akoko told one of our correspondents that residents of the community organised a procession round the town on Tuesday to honour the departed pastor. “All  markets and shops still remain shut, while town service buses were not on the road,” the source said. Senate observes one minute silence In a related development, the Senate on Tuesday observed a minute silence in honour of Joshua. The Deputy Leader of the Senate, Prof. Ajayi Boroffice, who is also the Senator representing Ondo North Senatorial District, drew the attention of his colleagues to the death of the late prophet. Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, prayed for the repose of the soul of the late prophet. The Senate President said, “Let me condole the family of TB Joshua, and also say that our country and Nigerian leaders across all levels need prayers. “We need the intervention of God while we continue to do our work and perform our functions and duties.” CAN mourns 72 hours after Joshua’s death Similarly, the Christian Association of Nigeria on Tuesday broke its deafening silence and expressed condolences to Joshua’s family and SCOAN. The message came more than 72 hours after the death of Joshua. But in the message sent to the late cleric widow, Evelyn, the  President of CAN, Dr Samson Olasupo Ayokunle, described the late prophet as “one of the foremost Nigerian charismatic pastor, televangelist, and philanthropist who devoted his entire lifetime to the propagation of the gospel.” He said, “Prophet TB Joshua was one of the foremost Nigerian charismatic pastor, televangelist, and philanthropist, who devoted his entire lifetime to the propagation of the gospel and ministering to the needs of the downtrodden. He was renowned for his philosophical simplicity and humility. His death is not only a loss to the family and the church, but to Nigeria and the world at large.” Also, the Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Gboyega Akosile, said, “The pastoral, wise counsel and philanthropic gestures of Prophet TB Joshua will be sorely missed by his family, the less privileged and the entire members of the Synagogue Church of Nations, where he played active roles as a cleric and philanthropist before he passed on. Likewise, the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi Ojaja, in a message signed by the monarch’s spokesperson, Moses Olafare, on Tuesday reads partly, “Aside from being a prophet, TB Joshua went several steps ahead to become a globally celebrated philanthropist, advocate of a justice-filled society and prominent sports lover. “While it is a fact that his departure is currently being missed by all, I urge the Christendom to go beyond just mourning and pick lessons from the well-spent lifetime of this great man of God.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com