OPERATIVES attached to the Kaduna State Police Command have rescued five kidnapped victims at Jangidi Godo-Godo and Rigasa communities of Jema’a and Igabi local government areas of the state. The Command’s Public Relations Officer, Mohammed Jalige, made this known in a statement in Kaduna on Tuesday. Jalige identified the rescued victims as Godiya Ishaya of Bukuru Town in Jos, Plateau State, Blessing Isuwa of Kanke LGA also in Plateau State and Emmanuel Daniel of Gbai Bagori village of Bauchi State. Similarly, he said cops rescued a 40-year-old housewife, Nafisat Abdulganiyu and her daughter, Barakat Abdulganiyu, kidnapped by bandits in Rigasa area of the state. The statement read in part, “On the June 7, 2021, the Kaduna Police Command received a distress call through the DPO, Kafanchan that at about 0130hrs, gunmen blocked Jagindi Godo-Godo road, attacked a Sharon vehicle with Reg. No. MGU 15 ZF and suspected to have abducted the occupants of the said vehicle. “On receipt of the information, the DPO led a team of policemen to the scene, gave the bandits a hot chase with a tactical fire response against the bandits who shot sporadically at the operatives. “It is however a joyful ending as the operatives succeeded in rescuing the three victims unhurt.” In a related development, the Command said it received a report from the DPO Rigasa, Kaduna, that on the same date, at about 0248hrs, some bandits invaded the residence of one Abdulganiyu Husseini ‘M’, 45 years of Mahuta community, kidnapped him, his wife and daughter and were said to be heading to the forest. “On getting the hint of the incident, operatives were immediately mobilised to the area and engaged the bandits in fierce exchange of fire of which the superior and tactical fire power of the police forced the bandits to abandon the wife and her daughter, namely; (1) Nafisat Abdulganiyu ‘F’ 40 years  (wife) and (2) Barakat Abdulganiyu ‘F’ (daughter). “Unfortunately, they escaped with one victim, i.e. the husband cum father mentioned earlier to an unknown destination. However, effort is being intensified with a view to rescuing the victim and the possible arrest of the culprits.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com