A civil society organisation, ActionAid Nigeria, has condemned the proposed bill by the Senate seeking to criminalise the payment and receipt of ransom for kidnapped persons. Recall that the Senate on May 19, 2021 considered a bill that seeks to prohibit the payment and receipt of ransom for the release of any person kidnapped, imprisoned or wrongfully confined. According to the bill, Nigerians who pay ransom to kidnappers and kidnappers who receive ransom risk 15 years imprisonment. The Terrorism Prevention (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which scaled second reading during the plenary was sponsored by Senator Ezenwa Onyewuchi. However, the representative of the ActionAid Nigeria, Adewale Adeduntan, faulted the bill. Adeduntan spoke at the commemoration of the Day of the African Child 2021 in Abuja on Wednesday. He said, “Do you know what it means to have your children in the hands of these demons and you say we should not pay when the system cannot protect us? It is children we are talking about here, not animals. These are molesters, you cannot allow your children to stay with them for any moment any longer. “That idea being mooted by the National Assembly that ransom should not be paid, I am saying emphatically that they are joking. We should push the game back to where we should push it to. We should blame the system that cannot protect children. We should blame the system that cannot shield and give adequate protection to teachers. “Look at what mothers go through at childbirth. Look at what women and fathers go through for them to raise these children. For the sake of giving them a better tomorrow, they are to be educated, and some miscreants go there and pick them like snails. That’s unacceptable and we cannot take that.” The Executive Secretary of the National Human Rights Commission, Tony Ojukwu, in his opening address at the event stated that this year’s commemoration brings into focus the domestic legislations and policies on child’s rights and the level of their implementation. “While progress has been made on the implementation of the Child Rights Act/Laws across the States that have adopted it, challenges bordering on non-prioritization of child rights in the budget, poverty, harmful traditional practices, inadequate access to educational and health services, armed conflicts and more recently, the COVID 19 pandemic have continued to slow down the progress across all sectors,” he said.