A downpour on Saturday morning left residents battling floods and calling on their governments for help in parts of Lagos, Ogun and Bayelsa states. Sunday PUNCH observed that the rain which began around 6am in Lagos fell for over three hours, causing heavy flooding and slowing down vehicular movements on Wemco Road in the Ogba area of the state. At Amuwo Odofin, the situation was the same with areas around the Apple Junction left flooded and residents going to their early morning business made to waddle through the water. In Ogun, residents of Shalom Estate, Arepo called on the state government to come to their rescue following the flooding of the area after the Saturday downpour. The estate, which had continued to endure the challenge for some years, saw their homes flooded  and called on the authorities to help end the challenge which had forced many to relocate from the estate. Speaking with Sunday PUNCH, the former Chairman of the estate, Bode Adefolu pleaded with the state Ministry of Works to come to their rescue. He said, “This is the current situation in Shalom Estate. We have water entering people’s homes and the access to the estate is impassable. “This has been going on for over seven years. The initial challenge was the community water flow that passes behind Shalom and some other areas. With the volume, there’s a need for proper planning for collecting the water downstream. “The current situation we are having is that the road work is contributing seriously to it (flooding) in that they (contractors) plan to maintain the same waterway with more volume without any environmental impact assessment of the downstream. “This is where government must come to our aid to clear waterways. Since the road is here to stay and water flow must be maintained, it means there must be clear waterway to downstream “Some structures on the waterway need to move. They can only be moved by government. Internally, the community had appealed to certain individuals with obstructing structures to move their buildings but this had not yielded any result thereby disturbing the easy flow of water making it to find its level always to flood Shalom.” In Bayelsa, a midnight heavy rain resulted in the massive flooding of several parts of the Bayelsa State capital, Yenagoa and its environs. The heavy rain started at 12:15 am on Saturday and lasted for over two hours. It impacted areas such as Edepie, Etegwe, Opolo-Epie, Biogbolo-Epie and Yenizue-Gene. Other areas affected by the downpour include city-centre Ekeki and Amarata, Kpansia, Okaka, Onopa, Yenizue-Epie as well as Elebele-AIT Road and Imiringi Road. Some residents in the areas were seen evacuating water from their houses on Saturday while others attempted to clear narrow water channels and unpaved drainages around their neighbourhoods. Our correspondent who visited some affected areas observed that residents were making use of footbridges, also known as ‘monkey bridges’, to access their houses. A resident in the Biogbolo-Epie area and legal practitioner, Mr Lawrence Egina, described the flooding as terrible, saying, “As you can see, the rain that fell last night has caused heavy flooding and it looks like it will fall again in the night. It is terrible.” has made movement very difficult around here because some streets have not been constructed while some constructed ones do not have drainage,” he said. Another resident, who gave her name as Mrs Kuro, said the rain flooding would increase the presence of mosquitoes in the environment. The duo called on the state government to tackle the problem of flooding in Yenagoa, saying that residents had suffered hardship due to a lack of a network of drainage. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com