The #EndSARS protester Kemisola Ogunniyi, who delivered a baby in prison had her baby christened on Wednesday in Ondo State. Recall that Ogunniyi was arrested and charged to court  alongside three others for allegedly vandalising a property belonging to the Ondo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress during the October #EndSARS protest in Akure, was remanded in Nigeria Correctional Service Centre in Akure. She delivered the baby boy last week Wednesday. The state High Court sitting in Olokuta, Akure , granted her bail on humanitarian ground on Tuesday. At the christening of the child held at Vera Christian Assembly, Ayedun Quarters, Akure, the wife of the Ooni of Ife, Olori Naomi Adeyeye Ogunwusi, who said she was touched by the circumstance in which the baby was born, presented him with baby items and foodstuffs for the baby’s family. The Olori said , “When I heard the news, I was touched to hear that the lady gave birth in the prison custody. That was why I am here today (Wednesday).  The baby is a special boy. I will stay with the family. Kemisola should see me as her mother, her sister and her friend. An Akure-based medical practitioner, Dr Thomas-Wilson Ikubuse, also offered the baby scholarship from nursery to secondary school level. Some of the names given to the baby boy include Elijah, Eriaanu, Oluwadarasimi, Okikioluwa, Oluwajomiloju and Temitope. In her remarks, Kemisola expressed appreciation to all who were involved in securing her bail after the baby was born. “I thank God for my life and I also appreciate the government and all who participated in my case. God will be all of you,” she said. Her mother, Mrs Felicia Ogunniyi, who said she was not aware that her daughter was pregnant, appealed to the state government to assist his daughter in ending the legal matter. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com