The Senior Staff Association of Nigeria Universities on Sunday said the nation’s universities might be thrown to a fresh crisis if the Federal Government failed to withdraw the circular directing that workers of university staff schools should not be captured in the 2022 budget. The organisation said reopening a matter that had been decided by the National Industrial Court of Nigeria would affect the industrial harmony being enjoyed in universities. The President of SSANU, Mohammed Haruna Ibrahim, who spoke to journalists in Abuja, accused the government of going contrary to the agreement with the union even when the court had given a judgment on the matter. SSANU claimed that should government go ahead to implement the directive, over 3,000 of its members would be affected. Ibrahim was reacting to the alleged circular from the Budget Office, directing that teachers in staff schools should be removed from the Consolidated Salary Scale, in the 2022. Ibrahim said, “This means that they shouldn’t be captured in the CONTISS salary table. The government is planning to put them in a different salary table called CONPISS, the consolidated public service salary scale. Now, this is a negation of our agreement with government, because those members of ours who are in the university demonstration schools are members of university staff, and they have their employment letters signed by the registrar’s of their various universities, as approved by councils under the terms and conditions for engagement is that they will operate and be paid based on the consolidated salary scale, that is paid to all university staff. “Unfortunately, this development shows that government is trying to create another friction between us and them. Because the attempt was made five or six years ago, when government decided to remove them completely from the employment and we went to court, as you’re aware, went to industrial court. “After a long battle, we got a judgement in our favour. And it was interpreted that members of staff in the universities who teach in the university staff, schools or demonstration schools are bonafide members of staff of universities. “So, all of a sudden, this is the recent development like I call it negative development that has erupted and our members cannot sit down and watch or the union cannot sit and watch its members being maltreated. Asked what action SSANU would take if government implemented the decision, Ibrahim said, “The labour laws are there. If your employer infringes on your rights, there are laid down procedures. And one of it is to go to court, industrial court, which we have done before.” The Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, said, “Well I have not gotten a report from SSANU, but if I remember correctly, it is one of the issues that I have conciliated upon following the National Industrial court judgement about few years ago. “The issue is very clear, if the universities employ people in their primary schools, then those people are not university staff. If they employ people in secondary schools, the courts have demarcated what should be done. “So when we get their letter, we will address it, I don’t think it will result in any crisis because it is not a new matter.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com