In this interview with ENIOLA AKINKUOTU, veteran journalist, Mr Lanre Idowu, speaks about the attempt to amend the Nigeria Press Council Act and the National Broadcasting Commission Act The National Assembly is currently seeking to amend the Nigeria Press Council Act such that journalists and media houses could be fined N250, 000 and N10m respectively by the NPC for infractions. What do you make of this proposed law? We must endeavour to not treat the press council as another court. Essentially, it is an alternate dispute resolution forum; one that addresses ethical infractions dwelling on the weight of moral suasion. I would have preferred that issues of huge fines be left with the courts. The Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed, said last week that there was a need to amend the National Broadcasting Commission Act such that all online publications would be regulated by the NBC the same way broadcast stations are being regulated. Do you think this is the right step in tackling fake news and hate speech? Is fake news or hate speech limited to online publications? Do you think the laws, if passed, could undermine the constitutional role of the press as enshrined in Section 22? Any law that threatens to restrict the media landscape is a threat to the role of the media as upholding the responsibility of the government to the governed and should be avoided. The Federal Government a fortnight ago suspended social media platform, Twitter, for being a threat to Nigeria’s security and corporate existence. The act has been condemned by the United States, the United Kingdom and other countries. What do you think of the Twitter suspension? The timing of the Twitter ban coming after a tweet by President Muhammadu Buhari was deleted makes me wonder at the charge of threat to national security given by the government. In my view, the government betrayed thin skin to correction and escalated an issue that could easily have been resolved. It sends worrisome signals about the administration’s mindset. It suggests to me that the government is rather casual about our national reputation management for the ban has wide socio-political and economic implications. In its 2020 annual World Press Freedom Index, Nigeria was ranked 115 out of 180 countries. What do you think Nigeria can do to improve its ranking? It flows from the administration’s mindset. What is the government’s attitude to information flow? How well is the government prepared to engage the citizenry in dialogue in line with the traditions of participatory democracy? Rather than reeling out directives, the government should engage critical sectors in a deliberate effort to market its programmes. It is when we create a climate of free flow of information as a driver of nation-building that we can talk of an improvement in the press freedom index. Do you agree with activists that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), is reintroducing the ‘Protection Against False Accusations Decree’ otherwise known as Decree 4 of 1984 through the backdoor? The President by disposition does not come across as an engaging personality. Ordinarily, he should be the chief communication officer for his government but it is a role he is unable to comfortably perform, which explains why he prefers to outsource it. He has his own agenda and appears prepared to just focus on it without any distraction. If a tightening of the laws on information flow will help him to achieve it, he appears to be comfortable to employ it. Fake news and hate speech have become more rampant with the advent of social media and the preponderance of online outlets. What can Nigeria do to curb fake news and hate speech? Fake news and hate speech represent the twin evil of modern communication. Fakery in information dissemination is deliberate deceit to mislead, the handiwork of cheats who relish muddying the picture. Hate speech panders to base instinct; it reduces fellow human beings to the subhuman state. When it is deployed virally, it can imperil democracy, threaten the peace and stability of society. Both need to be understood as derivatives of the urge to distort, disorient, and disaffect the citizenry, hence they need to be confronted, stalked and killed. It requires the joint effort of those who trade in information—the media, the individual, professional media bodies, rights groups, and the government to be eternally vigilant to the danger the terrible twins constitute. Those who indulge in them should keep a date with the law. The information minister has spoken highly of China regarding its ability to control and censor information. Do you think the Chinese model is feasible in Nigeria? Nigeria is not China. Our political history differs. The pattern of our media development is also different. The consensus in national outlook built in China is equally missing in our context. Yes, the government can go ahead and put in place the Chinese regulatory model but at what cost? What is the objective of the whole exercise—to engage the citizenry and get their buy-in for the needed development or force compliance for temporary? The former is longer lasting, while the latter can only bring temporary gains. I want the honourable minister to express his thoughts much clearer than he has done to date. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com