More facts have emerged on the issues surrounding the $223m lodged with Polaris Bank by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation since 2012. Following the disclosure made by the Acting Managing Director of the bank, Mr Innocent Ike, while appearing at a public hearing before the House of Representatives Ad Hoc Committee on the Assessment and Status of All Recovered Loots from 2002-2020 on Thursday,  our correspondent intercepted a copy of the letter titled: ‘Re: Invitation to Investigate Hearing in Respect of  NNPC Deposit of $223,862,000 with the Bank.’ The letter which was dated June 21 and sent to the Chairman of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Assessment and Status of Recovered Loots, Adejoro Adeogun, through the office of the bank’s general counsel, Mr Segun Tawoju, provided extensive insight into the alleged controversial deposit. The letter, which had 10 annexures, copiously provided details and revelations on the issues surrounding the transaction. The committee had during the sitting queried why the money had spent seven years with the bank without any action, adding that the bank must have thought the money had been forgotten. Adeogun, the committee chairman, while grilling the Managing Director of Polaris Bank, said,   “You have about six years when this deposit was in your custody. It is impossible to forget $300m. Were you thinking it had been forgotten?” He accused the bank of exhibiting carelessness when it comes to money deposited by the Federal Government. The bank had through its letter explained that following the regulatory intervention of the Central Bank of Nigeria in the defunct Skye Bank on July 4, 2016, the new board and management immediately set out to address the various irregularities and shortcomings, chief of which was the inability of the bank to remit the NNPC deposits which had been in the bank’s custody for several years to the Treasury Single Account, as directed by the Federal Government of Nigeria due to liquidity issues. Ike explained that the said money which was lodged with the bank by the NNPC was at no time hidden from any public or government agencies, noting that the bank interacted and fully cooperated with several agencies, including the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Inspector General of Police Special Investigation Panel, the Department of State Services, Presidential Panel on the Recovery of Public Property, Senate Committee on Banking, and the House of Representatives Ad Hoc Committee on Treasury Single Account. He noted that in each case, the bank had satisfactorily explained that it was simply not in a position to remit the money as whole as it had been lent out to various customers by the previous management of the bank. In the course of the process, he explained that the bank kept the CBN abreast of all developments in the case by copying to the governor all correspondences with the various agencies. He insisted that the bank had remained open and transparent about the NNPC’s account balances in its custody. To further show transparency in the transaction, the acting MD explained that part of the strategy adopted in the payment of the deposit was to remit it to the CBN and then give the apex bank instruction to credit the NNPC. He admonished the committee that the money should not be classified as looted fund. “Permit me to conclude that the money deposited at Skye Bank and Polaris Bank was at no time hidden from any government agency and, therefore, we do not believe that it should be classified as looted funds at all,” Ike added. Corroborating the process leading to the final payment, the bank in the June 21 letter explained, “Sometime in December 2018, the Federal Government of Nigeria, through the now-disbanded Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property, instituted a suit, Federal Government of Nigeria vs Polaris Bank Limited (FHC/ABJ/CS/1424/18) against Polaris Bank Limited for the recovery of $223,862,000 belonging to the NNPC. The bank instructed the law firm of Falana & Falana Chambers to represent it in the suit. “In February 2019, as a demonstration of good faith, the bank made a proposal to commence the instalment payment of the sum of $10m  monthly into the NNPC TSA account with the CBN, and began doing so immediately. Eventually, the Federal Government, being satisfied with the bank’s transparent and diligent conduct in remitting the monthly funds without fail, entered into Terms of Settlement with the bank for the continued monthly remittances of $10m to the TSA. The Terms of Settlement were filed and adopted as consent judgment by the court on October 10, 2019, eight months after remittance commenced by the current management (see attached consent judgment as Annex 3)” Investigations also showed that the initial sum deposited at the time of opening the account in 2012 was about $30m, which grew over time with subsequent deposits amounting to $224,324.958.75 at the point the CBN intervened in the bank in 2016. Before then, however, the troubled account had remained relatively active with payments and withdrawals. The acting MD gave further insight on this by disclosing that the interest of the sum kept with the bank since 2012 was duly paid as could be seen from the statement of account submitted to the committee. He said, “We are pleased to state that as of today, the total sum of $224,324.958.75, which was the outstanding balance in the account as of February 2019, has been paid while the figure of $32,041,010.83 still reflecting in the account statement is the entry yet to be passed to nil off the balance remitted through cash lodgment (see correspondence with CBN in March 19, 2021 as annex 9).” Following queries that the NNPC had yet to confirm the receipt of the money paid into the CBN account, Ike stated that they were expecting the NNPC to write and confirm payment, stressing that Polaris Bank had written to the apex bank to that effect Since March 19, 2021. One of the petitioners, Tosin Ojomo, a lawyer who appeared before the committee, had faulted the submissions of Polaris Bank, stating that arrests were made before the bank confessed that the money was truly in its custody to which the chairman overruled noting the need to stay on the issue before the panel. The committee in its show of good faith later discharged and acquitted Polaris Bank of allegations and charges in respect of the said NNPC deposit. It, however, asked the bank to furnish the secretariat with evidence that the bank had fully repaid the money. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com