FORMER vice president Atiku Abubakar and the leadership of the All Progressives Grand Alliance, on Monday dissociated themselves from the 2023 Presidential campaign posters carrying the APGA logo and the portraits of Atiku and a former Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Chukwuma Soludo. Atiku in a statement titled, “Atiku preoccupied with helping to find solutions to Nigeria’s challenges,” signed by his Media Adviser, Mazi Paul Ibe, in Abuja, dismissed the posters as the handiwork of mischief makers. He explained that ordinarily, Atiku would have ignored the posters and the reports reading meaning into them but that the response was to clear the doubts in the minds of innocent Nigerians. Ibe said, “We know nothing about the posters or those who may have promoted it. “It is obvious that this is a work of mischief. For the avoidance of doubt, Atiku Abubakar is of the PDP while Charles Soludo is of APGA. It is silly of anyone to attempt to drag the former Vice President into an election in Anambra whose outcome will be determined by the people of the state.“ Ibe further said, “Atiku Abubakar is presently preoccupied with joining hands with other well-meaning Nigerians to help in finding solutions to the myriad of challenges plaguing our nation such as insecurity and economic downturn marked by joblessness and extreme poverty.” “We wish to restate that the purported 2023 campaign posters in circulation linking Atiku to Soludo are the handiwork of mischief makers and should be ignored.“ Also, the National Coordinator of APGA Media Warriors, Chinedu Obigwe, at a press conference, in Awka, also on Monday, said, “Desperate politicians that want to stop Soludo at all cost are wasting their time because he is on a divine mission. Soludo divine mission in Anambra State cannot be stopped. “We expect more politically motivated blackmail against Soludo from those that are seeing him as their nightmare. “The reality staring them and their sponsors in the face is that the coast is already clear for Soludo to emerge as APGA candidate on June 23rd and to also win the main election on November 6th.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com