Resource Intermediaries Limited is a wholly indigenous company registered to engage in Human Resource Outsourcing services. The company started business in July 2006. The company is licensed to provide Outsourcing Services (General Administration, Human Resource Recruitment and Management, Janitorial Services, and related Business Support Services). Our approach is to leverage on our knowledge in responding to client’s business needs flexibly. With growing clientele, our customers continue to gain tangible market advantages in three specific areas: 1)   A rapid deployment of our systems and personnel 2)   Ultimately lowering operating and transaction costs and 3)   Superior business management. We have had our share of the instability of business in our 15 years of operation as we were not immune to the effects of the major economic challenges as they affected several businesses. But our ability to be resolute never taking our eyes off the ball, a strong belief in our business model, acknowledging our staff as a major resource has been a major factor for our stability. We extended our reach across the country in the first 3 years of operations with our growing Personnel Under Management (PUM) and created Regional Offices in Abuja, Lagos and PortHarcourt. With these regional offices, we were able to get closer to our PUM and we recorded an exponential growth in positive feedback on staff engagement. In our fifth year of operation we decided to explore the West African sub region and opened a fully fledged subsidiary in Accra Ghana to further compliment our Nigerian operations. We have in this past 15 years provided our bespoke Outsourcing Services to several companies across various industries in the 36 states of the Federation. With our regular engagement with job seekers, we soon realize a challenge with the quality of our graduates judging from our numerous interviews to shortlist candidates for organizations and we decided to create a School (Finishing School) to focus on Soft Skills. These are training topics that are never taught in school and are usually helpful to live life.  We have had several streams of this School over the years and have trained over 4,000 people over 85 streams. We also have in-house Faculty that manages the entire process as we are Certified by The Center for Management Development for Capacity Development across all cadre of the workforce. What are Resource Intermediaries Limited’s contributions to the Professional practice of Outsourcing In Nigeria? There are huge opportunities for Outsourcing in Nigeria, even though it is an area that is largely populated by inexperienced and questionable Providers. Again, Outsourcing as a management practice simply means to transfer work responsibilities and decision rights to someone outside an organisation. This understanding has progressively led us at RIL to explore how we could use our local knowledge and experience to provide quality and ethical outsourcing services. As far back as the year 2010, it dawned on my colleagues and I that the best way to establish Outsourcing as a professional management practice in Nigeria would be to initiate a program that would bring various stakeholders in the Outsourcing space together. Our target stakeholders were Users, Providers, Government at various levels, government parastatals, Health Management providers, pension administrators etc. Our study came up with an Outsourcing Conference which we named OutsourcingExpo, to hold on an annual basis. We reckoned that this would gradually register RIL as a thought leader, who was eager to set the standard by encouraging best practicies and professionalism in outsourcing practice in Nigeria, away from casualisation. The OutsourcingExpo started in 2012 as an initiative of Resource Intermediaries Limited. It instantly became the place to be for outsourcing Users, Providers and Advisors in Nigeria and beyond. Apart from networking opportunities, the latest trends and business deals were initiated and consummated at the OutsourcingExpo.  An average of 250 delegates and 20 exhibitors participated in the maiden edition, while papers were delivered by industry leaders on prevailing topical issues of the day. The objective of the OutsourcingExpo was to provide a platform for the promotion of professional outsourcing practice in Nigeria and ultimately Africa, through capacity building and advocacy for all stakeholders. Creativity has long been thought to be an individual gift that is best pursued alone. This reasoning is a myth because Creativity is always collaborative even when you appear to be alone. Think of Jazz groups, theater ensembles, football talents etc. Really, No one person or organisation can really attain greatness alone. This is why in 2013, leading industry players Vic Lawrence & Associates Ltd and Integrated Corporate Services Ltd were invited to work on the second edition of the OutsourcingExpo in collaboration with Resource Intermediaries Limited. By 2014, the OutsourcingExpo was handed over to the Association of Outsourcing Professionals of Nigeria (AOPN) to broaden its scope and reach. The AOPN has since run the yearly event successfully in fulfillment of its Vision to create a catalyst hub for enhancing the outsourcing profession in Nigeria. Greater awareness has since been created in Nigeria for Outsourcing as a professional service offering through this initiative. In spite of these contributions by RIL, outsourcing practice remains largely unregulated. This is because there still isn’t any enabling legislation to guide the practice as it should be. Sadly, the legislation currently being considered fails to distinguish casualisation from outsourcing, a professional management practice. Any proposed legislation should strive to compel businesses that outsource to meet specified minimum standards as befits for staff deployed to them. These benefits should be part of the contractual engagements funded by the company outsourcing. Examples of these benefits are Payment of full salary for one month for staff disengaged within 12 months and one additional month for every additional year such staff has worked in the outsourced engagement. Another should be access to Medical cover for staff, spouse and max of two children. What obtains now is typically for staff only, where it is provided at all. Nigerian Outsourcing Firms are competent in helping the government from the menace of unemployment. First I must emphasis that outsourcing is not a career job. It is generally a platform for building skills and raising some capital for the employee to either get career jobs or become entrepreneurial. Now, most Nigerian outsourcing firms like Resource Intermediaries Limited that I manage have processes in place to facilitate a recruitment exercise efficiently and in a way that protects the dignity of the applicant. Outsourcing firms in my view are doing the best they can to ease unemployment but are constrained by the prevailing business terrain full of uncertainty in the years gone by. The mistake that government makes is to focus on the unemployed in seeking to employ as many as possible. What government ought to do is to focus on creating the enabling environment for people to create small-scale businesses that would in turn employ staff as outsourcing makes a positive impact in today’s business. Note that anything that makes hiring staff more expensive like multiple taxes, legislated increased benefits like pension and Health Management schemes will discourage job creation. Numerous Taxes for example and the overall tax burden make job creation more difficult and less rewarding for the employer. In recent years, having established us as uniquely different from the general practice of casualisation, we pivoted to providing co-workspaces and serviced flexible offices within the same outsourcing model. As is our pedigree, we have set the standards in that space in  about three years of operation of our theBUNKer ®️co-working facilities. theBUNKer ®️ is a co-work facility chain with flexible offices, training space and private offices for short and long letting. We currently serve the public in Lekki Phase 1 and Yaba both in Lagos, plus two other outlets in Abuja and Ibadan. Key Attributes of theBUNKer facilities are, flexible and unbelievable rates, with something for everyone, cozy, colorful and yet functional spaces and multiple seating spaces, built for those seeking that proudly African feel. Each facility also has a Cafe on site, with to die for beverages and snacks while you work, or just relax at lounge. They also boast of multiple spaces for meetings (formal and not so formal), longer opening hours, 9am to 9pm Monday to Friday, and ideal for that quiet evening needed to close out your work. To cap it all, we are open on public holidays, when you need somewhere quiet and cozy for that creative work, meeting, or simply “me” time alone. Looking through our fifteen years, we believe we have been of great value to the Nigerian society and economy with the provision of employment for thousands of people, while also being a responsible corporate entity. Looking back, the last fifteen years Nigeria has been great for our company, and we look forward to the next fifteen, with renewed hope and belief in the people and nation of Nigeria.