Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has said the Federal Government can do nothing significant in the economy without the partnership of the private sector; further pledging its commitment to ease the operations of the Organised Private Sector in Nigeria. He said this at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Monday during a virtual interaction with representatives and business leaders from the OPS, including the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines, and Agriculture; Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association, Nigerian Association of Small-Scale Industrialists and the Nigerian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises. The OPS delegation led by its Chairman, Taiwo Adeniyi, made a presentation on the progress of the implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Area agreement, with suggestions and proposals about its future. Senior Special Assistant to the Vice President on Media and Publicity, Laolu Akande, disclosed this in a statement titled, ‘We will continue improving business climate, Osinbajo assures Organised Private Sector in renewed engagement.’ Osinbajo was quoted as saying, “The private sector is the engine of growth, there is no way the Federal Government can do anything in the economy without the private sector. “Our role is to make it easy for the sector to operate, and we are committed to that.” The Vice President added that, with the genial relationship already established between the FG and the OPS, the FG will follow up with all the issues raised while looking forward to other engagements with the body. He promised that the government will continue to interact and engage with the OPS while improving the country’s business climate, in the full knowledge that the sector is the real engine room of growth and development. On their part, members of the OPS delegation commended the Buhari regime for the continued interaction with the body over time. According to its Chairman, Adeniyi, there has been a general optimism especially among medium-scale businesses that the AfCFTA will generate positive effects on the Nigerian economy. Speaking later on behalf of the delegation the President of NASME, Orimadegun Agboade, commended the Vice President for his “personal attention to MSMEs Clinics, describing the VP’s support as “more than what we can express.” Also in attendance were the Minister of Industry, Trade, and Investment, Niyi Adebayo, among other senior government functionaries.