I got a call from the United States of America from an old school mate after discussing Justicia carnea (Ewe eje). Her name is Hajia Taofiqat Solaru, an Assistant Director, Public Affairs with Lagos State Government who voluntarily retired from the state civil service recently. She spoke so glowing about Justicia carnea that if the plant were a human being, his head would have “swollen up” because of the praises. She told me she used to have what the Yoruba call “pajapaja” (muscle spasms)  and anemia. All that is history now. Thanks to Justicia carnea! Today, I present to you nature’s wound healer! The Yoruba call it “ewe Akintola” or “ewe Awolowo”. In eastern Nigeria, it is called several names among which are “Queen Elizabeth,” indicating that the spread of the weed might have been widely noticeable during the period of the queen’s visit to Nigeria. It is also called independence leaves. I spoke with Alhaji Alarape Dawud, a cocoa merchant in Iwo, Osun State, who told me the leaves can be cooked and the water used to bathe as malaria treatment. He also said the leaves are one of the ingredients soaked in water alongside others to beautify the floor of mud houses in the past. Chromolaena odorata belongs to the family Asteraceae. It is a traditional medicinal plant that is widely used for its wound healing property. In particular, the several parts of this herb have been used to treat wounds, burns and skin infections. The plant exhibits its wound healing property using multiple mechanisms, its extract contains many antioxidant compounds that enhance wound healing property, it reduces the bleeding and clotting time which may be the first line of action in the physiology of wound healing, it can protect the cells from destruction by inhibiting the inflammatory mediators. It has antibacterial activities against both Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria, suggesting that it may reduce wound infections. In a study, the bleeding and clotting times decreased in animals treated with C. odorata extract. This shows that it remains a good hemostatic agent. Furthermore, it has also been shown to possess anticancer, anticonvulsant, anti parasitic, antidiabetic, anti-diarrheal, anti-fungal, anti-hepatotoxic, anti-inflammatory, astringent, antispasmodic, antihypertensive, anti-inflammatory, diuretic, tonic, antipyretic, antimicrobial and antioxidant properties. Its phytochemical components are alkaloids, flavonoids, flavanone, essential oils, phenolics, saponins, tannins and terpenoids. The other important constituents of this plant are Eupolin, chromomoric acid, quercetagetin and quercetin. The leaves of this plant have been found to be a rich source of flavonoids including quercetin, sinensetin, sakuranetin, padmatin, kaempferol and salvagenin. The leaves have occasionally been used as an aromatic addition to soups. It is said to be antibiotic and febrifuge. An infusion of the leaves is taken to cleanse the blood. The young leaves are crushed and the resulting liquid can be used to treat skin wounds. The stem is used in an emollient mix while extracting splinters. The stems and branches are crushed and combined with the wood-pulp of Cecropia obtusa and a seed of Theobroma cacao. This is then kneaded in Carapa oil and locally applied in a plaster. In traditional medicine, a decoction of the leaf is used as a cough remedy and as an ingredient with lemon grass and guava leaves for the treatment of malaria. Its leaf water extract is widely used as a diarrhoea, malaria and diabetes drug. Recent research has shown that the plant is larvicidal against all major mosquito vectors. The fresh leaves and extract are a traditional herbal treatment in some developing countries for burns, soft tissue wounds and skin infections. Extracts from the leaves have been shown to be beneficial for treatment of wounds. The leaf is ground into a paste and is applied topically on affected places to heal wounds. A product named Eupolin, made from the plant has already been licensed for use in Vietnam for soft tissue burns and wounds. It is also applied topically as an antidote to the sting of the spine of the common sea catfish. The fresh leaves or a decoction of the plant are used for the treatment of leech bites, soft tissue wounds, burn wounds, skin infections, rashes, diabetes, periodontists and as an insect repellent. A poultice of the leaves is traditionally applied to cuts or wounds to stop bleeding and promote healing. An aqueous decoction of the roots is used as an antipyretic and analgesic remedy. The leaf extract with salt is used as a gargle for sore throats and colds. This plant is a popular folk medicine widely used as alternative herbal treatment for diabetes and soft tissue wounds in East Indonesia. In Nigeria, the local application of the leaf extracts of C. odorata for sore throat and treatment of pile, burns, and wounds have been documented. The decoctions of the stems were reported to be effective against skin disease caused by Propionibacterium acne. The avoidance of C.odorata by grazing animals might not be unconnected with the offensive odour that emanates from the leaves whenever they are bruised by the grazing animals in their attempt to consume them. Also, the high nitrate content of the leaves has been implicated in the resultant death that ensued from their consumption by animals in the raw form. These shortcomings in the use of the plant as a feed resource for livestock notwithstanding, painstaking research efforts have found ways of tapping the vast potential of the plant. One of these ways is by sun-drying and converting the fresh leaves to leaf meal. Sun-drying reduces the offensive odour to the minimum and improves palatability. In a study titled, “Nutritional and potential medicinal value of chromolaena odorata leaves,’’ by Nwinuka et al, the anti-bacterial effects of the methanolic extracts were positive for bacillus subtilis, klebsiella pneumoniae, staphylococcus aureus and negative for pseudomonas pyrogenes and Escherichia coli. Antifungal activities were observed against candida albicans, aspergillus saccharomyces cerevisiae and rhizopus sp. Both the aqueous and methanolic extracts showed antifungal effects on penicillium sp.The result also shows that C.odorata is rich in high quality protein. The conclusion is that the leaves of C. odorata may be useful sources of antimicrobial drugs as well as food supplement. In another study titled, “Oral intake of polyphenols of chromolaena odorata: A perspective in peptic ulcer, thrombocytopenia and heparin-induced bleeding diathesis in rodent model,’’ by Paul et al, the conclusion is that the presence of polyphenols contributes to the crucial role of C. odorata in arresting internal bleeding from stomach ulcer, protecting the thrombocytes from destruction and minimising the bleeding diathesis in mice. In a study titled, “A new flavanone as a potent antioxidant isolated from chromolaena odorata L. leaves,’’ by Anggraini et al, the result showed that a new flavanone, odoratenin, found in the plant should be a potential antioxidant source. When I discussed honey, I mentioned that I saw them use it on wounds in a teaching hospital in Nigeria. Chromolaena odorata is another wound healer that nature has provided us with. It should be explored. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com