Operatives of the Force Criminal Investigation Department, Abuja, have arrested five persons in connection with the alleged murder of a land agent, Yemi Taiwo, in the Ikorodu area of Lagos State. PUNCH Metro had reported that Yemi had gone to a site with his friend, Femi Animashaun, in the Isiu community, Ikorodu area of the state on Friday, September 4, 2020, when some vigilante members, known as Onyabo, and some hoodlums arrested them for allegedly planning to abduct a monarch in the state. It was gathered that the duo were taken to the secretariat of the Ikorodu North Local Council Development Area before policemen took them to their annexe office in the Ladegboye area of Ikorodu, where they were allegedly tortured. The deceased’s wife, Olabisi, had told our correspondent that Yemi and Animashaun were allegedly rejected upon their transfer to the Zone 2 Police Command, Onikan, due to the degrees of the injuries they sustained while being tortured. However, our correspondent learnt that the police had arrested five suspects in respect to the incident. The suspects were identified as Ola Tijani, Michael James, Ahmed Kasumu, Tunde James and Kose, alias Sharpshooter. PUNCH Metro learnt that the suspects were arrested after the police reviewed the video taken when the victims were being tortured by the suspects. It was gathered that the wife of the deceased, Olabisi, and the friend, Animashaun, had petitioned the office of the Inspector-General of Police, who gave a directive that the suspects must be arrested. Following the arrest of the suspects, Animashaun, who alleged that his life had been under threat since the incident happened, urged the police to arrest the remaining suspects. He said, “I want to thank the IG for arresting them. They have been boasting that they have a godfather in Ikorodu, who is sponsoring them and that they have top police officers with them, claiming they are untouchable. “My life is not safe now. I had to be taken away from the hospital, where I was receiving treatment, because my people heard that they were planning to kill me since I was the only witness.” When contacted, the Public Relations Officer, FCID, Funmilayo Eguaoje, confirmed the arrest of the suspects to our correspondent. “Five suspects were arrested, but we are still investigating the matter,” she stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com