Air cargo handling companies have called for airport expansion in Nigeria, saying the ground handling companies’ space for export is very restrictive. With the COVID-19-induced restrictions on passenger flights, air cargo business continues to thrive in Nigeria and globally. The International Air Transport Association has projected the air cargo business to surpass other means of air transport business in 2021. According to IATA, cargo handling is now one-third of the typical airline business. The Nigerian Aviation Handling Company recently disclosed its plan to increase cargo transportation to 40 per cent in the second quarter of 2021. Our correspondent gathered from some cargo handlers that despite the growth in exports, there were some challenges still facing the handling companies According to them, one of the challenges is the restriction in export capacity. The spokesperson for Skyway Aviation Handling Company Plc, Mrs Adetola Uansohia, said, “The space at the airport is small. We have expanded in recent times, and there is a need for us to expand again. “We pray that the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria will get us more space at the airport because the export industry is growing and this requires more space at the airport.” According to her, there are opportunities to be tapped into if the space for export becomes less restrictive. “If the space becomes expanded, the rate of import would be synonymous to export. It would put Nigeria out there on the development chart as a country and increase job opportunities,” she added. Uansohia said SAHCO had recently acquired some equipment including a cooling van, which helps in preserving temperature-sensitive cargoes. The Chief Executive Officer, Mainstream Cargo Limited, Seyi Adewale, said the movement of perishables overseas was a challenge due to the restriction on flights. He said “The ground handling space for export is very restrictive. Import in Nigeria in terms of volume is shrinking compared to before. But exports are increasing. “The allocated space for packaging and processing is not optimised. Handling companies must increase capacity. They have to improve the efficiency of their freezers and temperature control rooms.” The spokesperson for Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, Mrs Henrietta Yakubu, said cargo handlers could handle the challenge by writing to the Airport Manager to make their intention known before FAAN could devise other ways of handling the matter. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com