A company belonging to a former governor of Abia State, Orji Kalu, Slok Nigeria Limited, has urged the Federal High Court, Abuja, to stop the retrial of the case against it (Slok) and its chairman. In a motion ex parte, on Monday, the firm’s counsel, Marvel Akpoyibo, told the court that he was seeking an order “prohibiting the Federal Republic of Nigeria through the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, her agents, her officers, servants, privies and any other person or bodies deriving authority from the Federal Republic of Nigeria from retrying the applicant on charge No. FHC/ABJ/CR/56/07 or any other charge based on the same facts.” He also alleged that the EFCC was harassing and embarrassing them. He therefore sought “an order of perpetual injunction restraining the 1st respondent through the EFCC, her agents, her officers, servants, privies and any other person or bodies deriving authority from the Federal Republic of Nigeria from further retrying, harassing and/or intimidating the Applicant with respect to Charge No. FHCIABECR/56/07 F.R.N. VS. Orji Uzor Kalu & 2 ORS or any matter connected thereto or therewith, or any other charge based on the same facts or having the same ingredients.” The judge, Justice Iyang Ekwo, gave the counsel seven days to serve the respondents the processes and adjourned the case to July 13 for hearing. Recall that The PUNCH had earlier reported that on June 2, 2020, the Federal High Court in Lagos ordered Kalu’s release from prison. Kalu was jailed for 12 years on December 5, 2019, after he was convicted of N7.1bn fraud alongside his firm, Slok Nigeria Limited, and a former Director of Finance at the Abia State Government House, Jones Udeogu. However, the Supreme Court, in a May 8, 2020 judgment, nullified the trial and conviction of Kalu and others on the grounds that the judge who handled the case lacked jurisdiction. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com