The President, Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria, Mr Adesina Adedayo, has said the institute is working on a strategy document for taxation of global tech companies, among other taxes. Adedayo spoke during a courtesy visit by a delegation from the institute to the Vice President of Nigeria, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, in Abuja. The CITN president’s presentation, which was obtained on Wednesday, said he gave the communiqué the institute came up with during its 23rd annual tax conference in Kaduna to the Vice-President. While presenting the document, Adedayo said, “Arising from deliberations and a charge from his excellency, the Governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir El-Rufai, CITN is working on a strategy document which would be concluded shortly towards addressing these salient issues: ways and means of taxation of the informal sector; taxation of agriculture at the farm gates; scale-up capturing tax identification records; and how to tax global technology companies.” He urged the Federal Government to address its low revenue through improved tax collection method. He said the Nigeria Economic Sustainability Plan as well as the measures implemented was a right response to the challenges posed by COVID-19 pandemic and was largely instrumental to creating buffers for the government at all levels in withstanding the pressures and waves created during the peak period and the aftermath of COVID-19. Adedayo said, “However, it must be appreciated that our revenue levels are still quite low to create the necessary funds to undertake meaningful development. “Therefore, it is important that we sustain measures already being implemented to improve tax collection at all levels.” He said the institute had earlier on in the course of this administration presented the CITN Charter of Tax demands to the Federal Government. The document provided some cogent recommendations by the CITN for a better tax system in particular and for national economic development. He said some of the recommendations were already being implemented. He said some areas that had not received considerable attention for consideration to included “creation of the office of adviser on taxation; national honours for deserving taxmen and taxpayers; address the multiple revenue collection agencies; and resolving the challenge of multiple taxation and tendency to introduce earmarked taxes.” Others were the review of the incentives regime and abuse of tax waivers; and greater involvement of the institute as a think-thank on fiscal policy initiatives. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com