EDO State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, has denied receiving the congratulatory letters written by the duo of former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomhole, and the candidate of the APC in the last Edo State governorship election, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu. Obaseki, who spoke to his supporters along Ring Road, Benin, on Tuesday, said a sincere congratulatory message ought to have been written directly to him and not shared on social media. He noted that, if the authors were serious, they would have “printed them (messages) on their letterhead papers with their signatures on them, rather than posting it on the internet.” According to him, Edo would never fall for such ‘cheap messages’ packaged as congratulatory letters. He added, “The APC in Abuja is being run just like what they did in Edo when they were in power.” Obaseki also said, “It is clear that there is a problem in Nigeria. The country has money but until we change our mindset that taxpayers’ money must be used for the people and not for very few, the country will continue to wallow in crises. “We have to pray that what happened in Edo will not happen in Abuja. The only party that has the right people for the job is the People’s Democratic Party, in 2023. Forward ever, backward never, Edo must move forward,” he added. On what the Supreme Court victory meant to him and the people of Edo State, Obaseki said, “For us in Edo, this victory means freedom and emancipation; it means that we must rededicate ourselves to our people because democracy is all about the people. “Democracy is not about an individual or godfather. We have defeated the godfather finally in Edo in our quest to take Edo to where it should be.” Meanwhile, Edo South Senatorial district of the PDP in a Communique in a, said that it has confidence in Governor Obaseki’s ability to pilot the affairs of the state on the platform of the PDP. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com