Yoruba rights activist, Sunday Adeyemo, aka Sunday Igboho, and a renowned historian, Prof. Banji Akintoye, will attend the mega rally for the actualisation of Yoruba Nation scheduled to hold in Lagos on July 3. This is according to a statement issued on Monday by the umbrella body of Yoruba Self-Determination Groups, Ilana Omo Oodua, which recently held peaceful rallies in Ekiti, Oyo, Osun, Ogun and Ondo in the clamour for the emergence of Yoruba Nation from Nigeria. The statement was signed by the General Secretary of IOO, George Akinola, and made available to newsmen by the Media Communications Secretary of the group, Mr. Maxwell Adeleye. The group which promised a peaceful rally in Lagos said if actualised, the “Yoruba Nation shall be the shining glory of the Black race.” The United Nations, European Union, African Union, Economic Community for West African States, and the governments of the United States and the United Kingdom have been invited to observe the rally. “Ilana Omo Oodua and its associates have concluded arrangements to hold the Lagos State version of the Yoruba Nation mega rallies on Saturday, July 03, 2021. “It promises to be a blast as we finally sink the ill-fated amalgamation in the Atlantic Ocean; welcome to the shining glory of the black race! “The Lagos rally will be one of the super rally storms that have been blowing gracefully and peacefully all over Yorubaland and all Yoruba sons and daughters are encouraged to come out and stamp their unequivocal authority on the land. We own this space! “Please come out in your brilliant Yoruba Nation regalia: vests, t-shirts and Omoluabi whites. Hoist your flags and sing the Ogo Adulawo Yoruba National anthem with gutso. “We are on the last leg to liberation. And as usual, this rally will be peaceful, well-coordinated and orderly. It was peaceful at Ibadan, well-conducted at Abeokuta, super orderly at Osogbo, fantastically coordinated at Akure and epochal at Ado-Ekiti. “The Nigerian police cooperated well with us in all these places. We do not expect it to be different in Lagos. Be a witness to history”, the statement read.