A pro-All Progressives Congress group, Lagos4Lagos has expressed dissatisfaction over the just concluded local government primary election conducted in Lagos State. It alleged that its members were systematically disqualified. The Principal Coordinator of the group, Mr. Bode Makinde, said this during the unveiling of the group’s LagosFundLagos, an initiative by the friends of Dr. Abdulazeez Adediran, the Lead Visioner of the group, in Ikeja, on Tuesday. Makinde said apart from collecting huge amounts of money for nomination form from each aspirant, the leadership of the party did not fulfill its promise of conducting credible local government primaries in the state. He said, “Going by the last local government election, we cannot say it was credible. Some of our members (Lagos4Lagos) were suspended, even while they indicated interest in the local government election.” The group’s Director, Media and Strategy, Mr Seun Soyinka, who also spoke during the occasion stated that the people of Lagos needed an independent man at the helm of affairs in the state to enable it to fulfil its full potential. Describing Lagos 4 Lagos as the fastest growing body in the state, Soyinka said, “We have autocrats, despots masquerading as democrats; we are saying enough is enough.” On the crowd funding initiative, tagged, LagosFundLagos, he said, “The Lead Visioner has said he would rather seek the support of all Lagosians than seeking the blessings of an individual.” “We want to leverage crowd-funding where we can get buy-in from all Lagosians to contribute and support the governorship project and own it. We are returning power to the people in word and indeed.” When contacted, the spokesman of the Lagos APC, Mr Seyi Oladejo, said, “I will respond to those who participated in the exercise; they made their stand known before the primaries that they were not going to participate in the primary election. They were not part of it; so, what is the need for complaining?” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com