The Chief Operating Officer of Halo-Waters Nigeria Limited, Andrew Lana, tells MOBOLA SADIQ about the pros and cons of water transportation What’s your most memorable boating experience? When I was a young boy of about seven or eight years old, we had a neighbour who worked with the navy, and one day, he invited everyone in the estate for a boat ride. It was an amazing experience and all the parents and children in the neighbourhood had a superb time on the water. Another memorable experience was a boat ride I took in Oklahoma, United States of America. What is the longest boat trip you have had? My longest boat trip so far lasted for one hour, 30 minutes. Have you ever feared been attacked on water? The only insecurity is on the waterways in Nigeria. Once one gets to the Seme border (between Lagos State and Republic of Benin), it is safe all the way. In fact, I think it is safer to travel at night from Lagos to Ghana, than from Falomo to Epe (within Lagos). I have never had a terrible experience but other boat operators have shared their experiences with me. What is the scariest boat experience you’ve had? When I wanted to start the boating business, I took a boat ride from Ikorodu to Falomo on a wooden boat. The experience was horrific, and that was my last time on a wooden boat. Those things are practically moving coffins. The materials used to build the boats are light, so when the boat breaks, the casualties are usually high. Unfortunately, the government seems not to see that and it is a big concern. All through the ride, I was afraid that the boat could break into two at any time. How do you feel when you’re on a boat? When I am on any good boat, I sleep off. I forget that I am even inside a boat. It is a fantastic experience. I forget my worries or anything troubling me. I take in the cool breeze and enjoy my life. Lagos looks very beautiful at night when one is on a boat ride. Do you go on boat rides when you travel out of the country? Yes, I often go on boat rides when I am not in the country. That is why I can compare the cost of boat trips in Nigeria to what is obtainable in other countries. However, I have noticed in other countries that they have bigger boats. It is generally believed that boating is for the elite. Why is that? Boating is not necessarily for the elite. The cost of a boat engine can buy at least two cars, and some boats come with double engines. That is why an average man would not think of buying one. He would rather get a car. Buying a private boat is not a child’s play. It is for those that are very comfortable. Do you regret leaving the banking industry for boating business? I do not regret leaving the banking industry for the boating business. That is because for everything I do, I take instructions from God. I actually got into this business with the help of God. There will always be frustrations or challenges in business but our help is from God. I want my story to encourage people not to give up on life when there is a storm. Why did you choose boating as a career? I did not choose to go into the maritime industry. I am a former banker. I simply stumbled on certain documents that piqued my interest. Even then, my interest was not in owning boats. We just wanted to partner with the government to improve the jetties (terminals.) We wanted to build jetties all around Lagos and operate them for some years before transferring ownership to the government. At that time, we were to look elsewhere because the Lagos State government wanted to build its own jetties.  We deliberated going for the concession but we were told the process would be political, and that if we did not have political backing, there was a likelihood that we would not get any of the jetties. We were strongly advised to bring in our own boats because there is a major gap that needs to be filled. Boating is a long term investment, and we wanted to assist the government to develop the waterways. 2018 was a rough year but there was a major improvement in 2019. I understand that a new business could be shaky. The COVID-19 pandemic also dealt us major blows. What do people not know about water transportation? In water transportation, there are different revenue streams, including commutes (which is what we mostly do), charter, and contract. The latter makes the highest revenue because a company may lease one’s boat for official purposes for one year or more. The commute makes the lowest revenue though it gives one exposure. What are some of the frustrations that come with running a boating business? Both air and water transport need extensive experience and expertise. If one invests in water transport, one needs people with experience. The infrastructure the government has provided is not ideal at all. For example, when you go to some jetties, all the boats would be clustered together because there are no parking slots where boats can stay safely. All the operators usually provide is life jackets but that’s not the only thing they must provide. I agree that there are no congestions on the waterways because they are wide but the government is not prioritising the waterways like they are doing with road transportation. The government needs experts to run the waterways. Some policies of the government also frustrate boat owners. When we started, we paid a N5m licensing fee to the Lagos State government to operate on the water for five years. Meanwhile, we also pay N140, 000 per year to the federal government. Besides that, we pay N1000 for the jetties we use every day. That simply means water transportation business is not for the faint-hearted. It costs N300,000 to service a boat every month. Sadly, I don’t think the government is aware of our plight as boat transporters. In what ways do you think that the boating sector can be developed in Nigeria? Let me give you an example. You can only get to Macau, a small island close to Hong Kong (China) by ferry. It is a 45 minute-ferry ride and it costs $35 for a one-way trip. Meanwhile, we charge N1000 for a 45 minute-trip in Nigeria. How would investors be encouraged to invest? For the boating sector to be developed, the right infrastructure should be put in place. A lot of dredging needs to be done on our waterways as well because we have a lot of shallow waters. The government should also give grants to boat operators as a way of supporting them. Private boat operators should be subsidised like the government-owned ones. Also, emergency services and security should be provided on the waterways round the clock. Before we start plying international routes, we need to get it right in our country. What are some of the challenges on the waterways? Firstly, the waters are shallow, so they need to be dredged. Secondly, waste materials should be cleared from the waterways. In some areas in Lagos State, waste disposal trucks dump their waste in the water, and that is very bad. The government also needs to build bridges that big boats can pass under. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com