Nigeria Liability Insurance Pool has said it will continue to provide the balancing factor for risks underwritten by members to protect them from the adverse effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Chairman, Adetola Adegbayi, said this during the Pool’s 11th annual general meeting which was held in Lagos and virtually. She said, “With the current happenings around the globe, it will take another year for the dreaded COVID-19 to abate with its variants. “The fragility of the Nigerian economy and the worsening effects of our security situation call our noble industry to go beyond the current prevailing rat race of unhealthy price competitions to map out strategies that would further deepen penetration of insurance in Nigeria. “The pool will continue to provide the balancing factor for risks underwritten by members.” She added, “We will brace up and work out measures such as enlightenment programmes and seminars that would further strengthen its income as well as attract new members to join the Pool, not forgetting partnering with members to ensure improved cessions of policies like professional indemnity, directors’ and officers’ liability, occupiers and builders’ liability as well as employers’ contingent liability to the Pool. The chairman said that the pool operated on the principle of ‘follow the members’ fortune’, indicating conditions where its businesses and operations were robustly dependent on the support and performances of the members. Based on this joint management of balance sheet impact, she said the pool’s performance in witnessed growth in some of its class of business compared to 2019. She mentioned to the sectors o include motor/third party liability which rose by 11.42 per cent; workmen’s compensation rose by 10.56 per cent; professional indemnity 35.45 per cent occupiers’/builders’ liability: 27.29%; directors’ and officers’ liability rose by 88.78 per cent. “It is my belief that the pool managers, with continued efforts, will be able to do better in years to come,” she said. During the meeting, it was disclosed that the board of directors approved the appointment of Mr Olamide Olajolo as the new managing director/chief executive officer, to run the affairs of the pool, and that he had resumed duty. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com