Former Vice President, Athletics Federation of Nigeria, Olamide George, has refuted insinuations that he was used and dumped ahead of the just-concluded parallel elections into the federation. George pulled out of the polls, which were held in Abuja and Birnin Kebbi on Monday, after he accused AFN Secretary-General, Adisa Beyioku, of not following the federation’s constitution. Speaking with our correspondent, George said even though he was not pleased with the outcome of the election, he would not seek redress. “I have satisfied my conscience, that’s all, I stand for justice and if it means standing alone, I will do that. I am not seeking redress or anything. I have set the records straight and history and posterity will judge us,” George told The PUNCH “For me, I am not going to court, but if they call me as a witness, I will go and testify. I am not scared, I am a living witness of the meeting with the World Athletics and the Confederation of African Athletics. I was the spokesman for my group and I handled the constitutional matter with the CAA. When it is time, I will write my own letter to CAA and I know they will listen to me. “If they could use and dump me, I wouldn’t be am standing alone and speaking out. Nobody can use and dump me, I stand for the truth.” Meanwhile the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, has inaugurated the Tonobok Okowa-led AFN board. Dare urged the new board to avoid the pitfalls of the past board of the federation. “This is indeed a new dawn for track and field in Nigeria as exemplified by the way you conducted your elections strictly in accordance with the 2017 constitution of your federation as recommended by both World Athletics and the Confederation of African Athletics. “This shows a new seed of hope has germinated to replace some of the rotten seeds sowed some four years ago. You must avoid the pitfalls of the past and follow not just the constitution of the AFN, but also work within the laws of our sovereign country, Nigeria,” Dare said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com