The House of Representatives has urged the Federal Road Safety Corps to introduce stricter measures to check the menace posed by tankers, tractors and trailers to others road users in the country. The House asked the FRSC to compel transport services and operators to disclose the types of heavy-duty vehicles business operations they are engaged in and register with the corps. It urged the agency to stipulate stringent administrative procedures for tankers and trailers operations in the country for first–time articulated vehicles operators/applicants for registration. The lawmakers also urged the FRSC, the Vehicle Inspection Service and related vehicle regulatory authorities to develop a comprehensive driving curriculum. They called on the Federal Ministry of Transport to establish the Nigerian Institute of Transport Technology in the six geopolitical zones to ensure access to the institute and acquire the requisite knowledge and qualification before setting up the driving schools or manning the articulated vehicles. The House mandated its Committee on Federal Road Safety Commission and Land Transport to ensure the implementation of the resolutions. The resolutions were passed following the unanimous adoption of a motion moved by Ben Igbakpa, titled ‘Need to assess the vehicle licensing process in Nigeria.’ According to Igbakpa, many drivers of articulated vehicles are not qualified to operate such vehicles as they are not licensed and lack the skills to drive, thus resulting in fatal accidents.” Igbakpa recalled that in order to reduce the recurrence rate of accidents, the Federal Government mandated the FRSC to establish minimum safety requirements for articulated vehicles. He said, “The House is disturbed that most tanker drivers are adolescents who can neither speak nor write in English. Yet when issued licences, they endangered other road users contrary to the FRSC registration process mandating tanker/tractor–trailer transport services/operators to register their transport companies with the FRSC. “The House is concerned that the proliferation of uncertified driving schools issuing driving certificates to untrained drivers results in producing inexperienced drivers, thereby causing accidents.” The House also adopted a motion titled ‘Incessant Disregard of Traffic Lights in the Federal Capital Territory’ as moved by Ayo Yusuf, urging and other relevant traffic management agencies to embark on “regular, intensive and strategic advocacy to educate vehicle drivers on the need to obey traffic lights and the various consequences of non–compliance.” “The House notes that the flagrant disregard and violation of traffic rules by private and commercial drivers have led to the loss of lives and properties within the Abuja metropolis, causing physical, emotional, psychological and economic dislocation to victims,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com