The Management of Bayero University Kano has warned students of the university against protesting the death of a 200-level student in the Department of Accounting, who lost his life after being hit by a moving vehicle. The deceased, Kamaluddeen Moshood, died at the National Orthopedic Hospital Dala, Kano, following injuries he sustained as a result of a road traffic accident (RTA). The Secretary of the University, Mallam Lamara Garba, who issued the warning in a statement on Sunday, said the incident occurred on Saturday, June 12, 2021. “And any planned protest by any person will be viewed as anti-progress of the University and will be met with decisive action,” he said. He said Kamaluddeen was hit by a fast-moving vehicle outside the University. He said on receiving the report of the accident, the Vice-Chancellor instantly directed the Dean of the Students Affairs to visit the scene and take all necessary action. “The driver of the vehicle was apprehended while the victim was rushed to the hospital under the supervision of the University Director of Health Services for prompt medical attention as he sustained multiple fractures,” Garba said. “While at the Hospital, preliminary investigations revealed that Kamaluddeen had a severely crushed leg and needed to have it amputated to save him. However, the doctors who observed his condition advised that in view of his unstable condition, it may not be possible to conduct such a major operation. It was in the process of stabilising his health that he gave up the ghost. “The Management wishes to extend its heartfelt condolences to the immediate family of young Kamaluddeen, his friends, associates as well as the entire members of the University community. “While commiserating with members of the University community over the sad demise of Kamaluddeen, the management of the University, however, wishes to strongly warn against any plan by students or group of persons to engage in any activity that could jeopardise the peace being enjoyed on campus in whatever form. “The University has done everything possible in order to save young Kamaluddeen. The University will not, therefore, condone any act of uncivilized behaviour whatsoever which will disrupt the peace on our campuses. Any student(s) caught doing so will be decisively dealt with. “Any breach of this warning will be viewed very seriously by the University management. All seriously minded students are advised by this announcement to face their studies and prepare for the forthcoming second-semester examination which is just around the corner. To be forewarned is to be forearmed, for a word is enough for the wise.” Lamara said in its determined effort to ensure the safety of students and other stakeholders of the University, the Management had early this year made a submission to the Federal Ministry of Works on the urgent need to construct a pedestrian bridge near the main gate of the New Campus for use by students in crossing over the trunk ‘A’ highway that passes by the side of the university. He said already the Ministry had obliged to the request of constructing the bridge and arrangement had gone far in that regard.