Chairman, Ibarapa North Local Government Area of Oyo State, Mr Lateef Akorede, in this interview with OLUFEMI OLANIYI, explains the ordeal of Igangan people when gunmen invaded the community on Saturday night killing many and causing massive destruction Gunmen invaded Igangan and killed no fewer than 11 persons on Saturday.  What is happening there now? The area is calm now. But the Saturday  attack was a very brutal one. It was sad we lost many of our people and properties to the attack. The bereaved have buried their dead. They were buried on Sunday night after doctors had written their reports. What is the security situation in Igangan  now after the attack on the people by some gunmen? The Commissioner of Police in Oyo State ( Ngozi Onadeko) has deployed mobile policemen in the town. Vigilantes from the town are also on ground to support them. Some of these security men have been in the forest since Sunday while some of them patrol the town.  Some are   at the routes leading to the town and they are all there to ensure that this kind of attack doesn’t happen again. There was panic in the town on Monday. What caused this? There was a rumour that those attackers, criminal herdsmen were sighted somewhere  in the forest and the security agents went to the area where they were said to have been seen but nobody was there. It was a rumour. Don’t you think this kind of rumour can be a tactic to divert the attention of the security men from the point where the criminals intend to strike? The security agents are professionals, even our vigilantes know that in responding to such information, some will still have to be left behind. The criminals may want to use that to divert attention but when they went in search of the  gunmen allegedly sighted in the forest, some of them were around in the town, some were manning various  roads that lead to the town. They are all over the place to ensure adequate security. However, they moved to the area and they did not see any criminal there. It was a rumour. For now, there is not problem at all in Igangan. We are planning to go and pay condolence visits to the bereaved families. We will sympathise with them and also urge them to remain calm while we all mourn our beloved people , who were cut off by the wicked ones in their prime. It was a terrible attack against the people of Igangan and against the whole of Ibarapa and Yorubaland. But what is the government going to do to improve security situation in the area? We know that the police and other government security agencies do not have enough personnel  that can secure the entire area because the forest is very vast. That is why we have written a letter which I am about to take to Ibadan to the Commissioner for Local Government Affairs on how to improve security in our area. That is the paramount thing now, although there are many things competing for attention. Security is the most important for now. What is the content of the letter? We are asking the government to assist us in our effort to secure our people. We also want the government to assist those who lost their loved ones, those whose properties were destroyed by the terrorists. No amount of money is big enough to buy a human life. However, we want the governor to assist our people, those who lost their loved ones will need money to stabilise themselves. Those whose means of livelihoods were destroyed by the wicked attackers will also need money to get back on their feet. Is that all? We want the government to approve our request to engage vigilantes. Who will pay their salaries if you engage them? We want the government to put them on their payroll. Even if they approve that we should have 50, 100, or even 500 vigilantes  the  effects of their work will  be seen by everybody. They know the terrain, they know what exactly to do and they live among the people. The forest is a very large forest and if we have a large number of vigilantes combing the place, it will give our people rest of mind. That is what we have in mind for now. Some residents of Igangan have claimed that the Seriki who ran away from the town and Iskilu Wakili’s boys are the ones behind the attack which they believe is a reprisal. Is this correct? We can say the attack was a reprisal but we are not very sure. That is why we have to exercise caution and allow security agencies to carry out a thorough investigation into the attack.  Our people who saw two of the corpses of the attackers killed during the invasion identified one to be one of the Seriki’s herder. He was not his biological son but he was one of herdsmen employed to herd his cattle. The other corpse was also  identified to be one of Wakili’s herdsmen. He too was not Wakili’s biological son but he worked for him before he  ( Wakili ) was arrested. So, if they accused the two men of being behind the attack, they could be right but the police will do their job. What are the names of the two? We asked them but they have not given us. But they said they knew them. Residents said they knew herdsmen would strike. Were you also aware of this? It is logical for people to say that. When Seriki left Igangan in January, people knew that there could be an attack to retaliate. Our people were also preparing to ward off such an attack. Everybody was securing his area. Our vigilantes, all over the communities in Ibarapaland were vigilant and manning the roads leading to their communities. But what happened in Igangan was that there was a burial in the town on Saturday. They said a hunter died and his colleagues were performing the ritual and you know when a hunter died like that his colleagues would be shooting to celebrate his exit. They said they hunters were shooting throughout Saturday until the evening time. So, the people thought the hunters were still the ones shooting into the air when the gunmen came and started shooting so, nobody really thought they were those who came to kill. That was the reason the people of the town did not go out to confront the attackers. They used that opportunity  kill their victims and wreak havoc on businesses, houses including the palace and vehicles. By the time the people realised that they were under attack. The damage has been done. They came at night and some people were attending parties so, they did not know the attackers would come that night. The hunters even complained that they did not have enough “ things needed” to confront the gunmen. What is you appeal to the Federal Government which controls the security agencies? Our appeal to the Federal Government is that they should protect our people. We don’t want to experience this kind of attack anywhere in this state and around us again. We know insecurity is happening all over the country. Killing is reported almost all over the country on a daily basis and that is why we are calling on the government to do everything necessary to secure the people. We are tired of these mindless killings. They should protect us and should not allow wicked people to kill us all. Since the forest is said to be very large, some have been clamouring for drones to be used to monitor activities going on in this forest? Do you think this will be helpful? I am in support of anything that can help to make our people safe. Technology is important and it will help security agents to be more effective in the discharge of their duties. So, I am in support of it.  I will also join others to appeal to the Federal Government to deploy this since they control the Nigerian Air Force, the police and other security agencies. People believe that food is very expensive now partly because farmers cannot go to their farms because of insecurity. What specific measure do you think can be taken to ensure security especially in the villages and farmsteads? That is why we are going to ask the governor to give us approval to engage vigilantes . There will be better security if this is approved. Our people will be able to go to farm without being afraid and there will be peace and prosperity in the area. We are on it and I believe the governor will give that approval even this week. That is why I am urging our people that they should be clam. Security agents have been deployed to protect them and efforts are ongoing to ensure that there is adequate security for lives and property in the area every day and every night. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com