A lecturer at the University of Jos, Plateau State, Dr Dan Ella, has been kidnapped by gunmen. PUNCH Metro gathered that Ella of the Department of Theatre Arts was abducted in the early hours of Wednesday by gunmen, who attacked his residence at the Haske Quarters, Lamingo community, Jos North Local Government Area of the state . The same community is where gunmen last month kidnapped Prof Grace Ayanbimpe and her husband, who were later released after the abductors allegedly collected ransom from their relatives. A resident of the community, Philip Gyang, confirmed the latest abduction to our correspondent in Jos on Wednesday. Gyang said the gunmen, who arrived in the community around 2am, headed straight for the apartment of Ella and whisked him away after breaking the door while shooting to prevent his rescue by residents, who were already terrified. Gyang stated, “What happened in the night was terrible. It was the sound of gunshots that woke us up around 2am. But we could not come out when it became clear that the Haske Quarters were under attack by gunmen. “So, at daybreak when everyone came out, we discovered that they had taken Dr Dan Ella away after breaking into his house. It’s really painful because this thing is happening again in the same place where a professor and her husband were kidnapped in similar circumstances last month and Dr Ella, who is their neighbour, was the one running around to make sure that the couple were rescued. And now, he is the one that has been abducted and no one knows where they have taken him to.” The Chairman, University of Jos branch of the Academic Staff Union of Universities, Dr Lazarus Maigoro, confirmed the abduction of the lecturer. Maigoro, who condemned the development said, “It is true because I just received an official report on the kidnap of one of our members in the Lamingo area last night. I’m preparing a press release on the incident. “Something has to be done about this kidnapping of innocent people, because it’s really sad and should not be allowed to continue.” When our correspondent visited the Haske Quarters around 4pm on Wednesday, sympathisers were seen trooping into the residence of the lecturer and bemoaning the incident. Many of the residents, who spoke to PUNCH Metro on the development, called for the release of Ella, who they noted had done nothing to warrant his abduction. A source informed our correspondent that the kidnappers had made contact with the victim’s family and demanded N10m ransom The source said, “The kidnappers, who abducted the lecturer, did not go with his phone. They left the phone in the house. They later called the family through the wife’s phone and demanded N10m ransom to release him. “Where will they get that kind of money from? I am really devastated by the whole thing.” When contacted on the incident, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Ubah Ogaba, could not be reached on the telephone. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com