The Ekiti State Police Command said on Monday that a suspected armed robber, Sunday Oluwasola, who was captured and beaten to a state of stupor by irate students on Sunday, died in the hospital. The Commissioner of Police, Tunde Mobayo, said the suspected robber was rescued from the students by operatives of the Rapid Response Squad and taken to hospital, where he died on Monday. The CP said in a statement by the Police Public Relations Officer, Sunday Abutu, titled: ‘Armed robber captured, died, others fled’, that the deceased was apprehended by students during a robbery operation in one of the students’ hostels at Iworoko Ekiti, opposite the Ekiti State University, Ado Ekiti. He stated, “On Sunday, June 13, 2021, around 4.30am, a distress call was received by the command’s RRS that an armed robbery incident was going on in one of the students’ hostels. “The RRS operatives were immediately deployed in the scene of incident. But on getting to the scene, it was discovered that one of the armed robbers, one Sunday Oluwasola, had already been captured by the irate students and beaten to stupor, while the other suspects escaped with the students’ valuables such as laptops, phones and money. “The captured suspect was eventually rescued by the operatives and taken to hospital for medical treatment. “During interrogation, Oluwasola confessed to the crime and mentioned Tochukwu, Michael and Tomiwa (surnames yet unknown) as his other gang members, who fled the scene. “The suspect later developed complications, possibly on account of the beating, and died around 2am on Monday, June 14, 2021. His corpse has been deposited in the morgue for post-mortem examination, while effort is ongoing to apprehend the other fleeing suspects.” Abutu listed items recovered from the suspects to include two locally-made double-barrelled guns, two cutlasses, two pairs of pliers and two human images calved with wood.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com