THE chairman of the Caretaker/ Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressives Congress, Governor Mai Mala Buni, on Monday said, the party under his leadership has succeeded in rescuing itself from the brink of collapse within the last 12 months. He noted that at the time the party’s National Executive Committee took office, last year, the party was enmeshed in a civil war which threatened the core of the party but that various confidence building steps taken by the party has restored peace. Buni, who is also the governor of Yobe State, said this in an address at the first APC National Youth Conference with the theme: ‘The Future Is A Decision’, which was held at the International Conference Center, Abuja. After recalling the circumstances which led to the setting up of the caretaker committee, Buni said “I am pleased to say that collectively, we have rescued a troubled party that was heading towards imminent collapse and disintegration, to a very strong, solid, reliable and ever-growing political party.” He maintained that the youth conference could not have come at a better time because the party was undergoing a process of complete rebirth, recovery, rehabilitation, rejuvenation and repositioning. Buni noted that the future of APC and Nigeria as a whole depended largely on the youths as such, the party under his watch could not afford to leave them behind in the rebuilding process. The Yobe governor said, “We must invest in the youth for a better future for the party and country. Therefore, this conference and theme are both strategic and timely for a prosperous future for the party and our beloved country.” Speaking further, Buni commended the APC youths for cooperating with the party by remaining united to its course during her turbulent times. He explained that steps such as the membership registration and revalidation has given every member a new sense of belonging and rebuilt confidence in the APC as truly the largest party in Africa. Buni said, “This also explains why the Caretaker committee under my leadership took a deliberate position of engaging the youth in every process. As part of our strategic approach to youth engagement, a committee on youth, women and people with special needs was constituted during the membership registration and revalidation exercise.” He promised that the CECPC is making efforts to approach the proposed congresses and conventions with a united front to produce a strong leadership that would enjoy the support, trust and confidence of all members, and protect party interest above personal and primordial interests for unity and prosperity. The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), who was represented by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, said, the APC -led regime placed premium on the development of Nigerian youths economically and politically, even as he recalled signing the #Not too young to run Bill, into law to remove all hindrance for the youths in contesting any electoral position. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com