Bringing to mind an experience that a lady shared with me not long ago, she had been in a relationship with a man for over six years. And in all those years, his body language was always like “you have to step up.” She said that she even cleared her savings to pursue an online programme from a prestigious university overseas just to make him see that she can indeed upgrade. Despite all that and many similar efforts from her end, he called off the relationship in a most bizarre manner. Fighting so hard not to lose her mind, she took a brief trip to Europe to know if the admirer from that end is serious. First outing, they ran into a group of kids at the park and she “awwwed” how those children make her feel like being a mother already.  He patted her on the back and promised that it would happen soon. But that was the last time they saw themselves. He ever contacted her again! Still battling to get a grip on her emotions, she returned to Nigeria and proceeded to the village to spend some time with her mother. She said that most of her routines there revolved around following the woman to the farm or market, going to the grandmother’s place to run a few errands for her as well and generally being useful around the house. According to her, she intentionally took her mind off everything about the city and men for the period of two months that she spent with her folks in the village. Such that it was rejuvenated her that returned to the city to face life. To cut the long story short, a marriage did happen but it was with someone that she didn’t see coming into her horizon. Hers is a typical example of how life lets us keep running in circles of NOTHINGNESS until we do the one thing that it has been pointing us to: Listen and follow the direction that it’s pointing us to. It may not always be what we desire but it always proves to be the one that is best for us, eventually. I have lost count of how many times this lady gushed about how much of a blessing the husband turned out to be. And that’s a man she wouldn’t have spared a second look at if the other men didn’t disappoint her. Yet, that same man that stood the least chance with her is whom life has used to turn her life around for good! Not long ago, I received a friend request from someone that I am already friends with on Facebook. A few days later, another friend request from the same account bearing the number three, happened. I sought to know what’s going on and she told me that Facebook placed the original account on temporary ban. And she opened multiple Facebook accounts. So is the attitude of some of us towards life! What should serve as a period of sober reflection is used in running all over the place. From one church to the other or one man/woman to another, when all that life is doing is making us consider wholesome perspectives. We are prone to engaging in (often!) meaningless pursuits because it’s easier than facing ourselves in solitude, honest reflections, humbling acceptance of a reality and the courage of repentance or starting all over(if need be). Yet, those are all that are needed to ‘hear ourselves’ clearly. May we learn to sit long enough with our feelings to hear what they are saying to us. With a lot of life’s lessons, you need to often STEP BACK (and not keep running all over the place) to even begin to understand. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com