The Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency on Friday advocated proper plastic waste disposal to reduce waste pollution in the state and encourage ‘waste-to-wealth’ initiatives through a campaign tagged ‘Trash for Cash’. A statement on Sunday said LASEPA in conjunction with the Cleaning Practitioners Association of Nigeria held a sensitisation walk/ clean-up exercise to mark the World Environment Day. The celebration themed ‘Ecosystem Restoration’ called for collective action against indiscriminate disposal of plastics and all other recyclable wastes in water bodies to prevent drinking polluted water and eating poisoned sea foods. It stated that the walk and clean-up exercise which commenced at Obalende, under the bridge all the way to Tafawa Balewa Square saw residents engage in clearing up plastic waste in exchange for cash. The General Manager, LASEPA, Dr. Dolapo Fasawe, said that the choice of the location was as a result of the unfriendly environment and blocked drainages. He said there was need to educate residents on the consequences of indiscriminate disposal of plastics, its effects on the environment, benefits of recycling and clean environmental practices to good quality of life. Fasawe said, “The waste-to-wealth is a sustainable international initiative, recognised worldwide with the objective of generating less waste, encouraging reusable materials as well as promoting recycling and conversion of waste to new products which translates into income generation and job opportunities for our people. “Today‘s exercise was to create public awareness on the need to rescue the environment from unfriendly activities and the need for all to be conscious of actions that affect the existence of life on earth. “Our objective is to advocate sustainable solutions to all forms of environmental degradation and reduce the negative effect of climate change on the environment.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com