Aggrieved governorship aspirants on the platform of the All Progressives Congress in Anambra State have urged the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) and the leadership of the party to nullify Senator Andy Uba’s nomination as the candidate of the party in the November 6 poll in the state. They vowed to report the Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, to Buhari for declaring Uba candidate of the party in the poll. Led by the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the National Inland Waterways Authority, George Moghalu, the aspirants numbering 11, said there was no primary election of the party that produced Uba, describing his emergence as the candidate of the party as “fraudulent”. Abiodun had declared Uba the winner of the primary election with 230, 201 votes while his closest rival, Johnbosco Onunkwo, polled a total of 28,746 votes. Rejecting the results announced by the Abiodun-led APC election committee, the aspirants called for a fresh primary election in the state. Moghalu at a press conference in Awka, the state capital, said if APC is desirous to win the poll in the state, a fresh primary of the party should be conducted transparently to produce its standard-bearer for the November poll. He said, “Anybody who claimed that there was a primary election in Anambra APC governorship is fraudulent and does not wish APC well in the November 6 election”. He appealed to the party’s leadership, especially the President to save the party from doom by conducting a fresh primary of the party in the state where all the aspirants would participate in the contest. Reacting, however, Uba described his victory as a collective one, urging his APC co-aspirants to join hands with him to win the governorship for the party in November. He said, “I have accepted to be the party’s flag bearer for the 6th November polls and appeal to my co-contestants to join hands with me to deliver the state for APC.” Meanwhile, a legal practitioner in the state, Kelechi Agbasere, had on Monday threatened to take up the matter if the APC failed to redo the primary election. He said, “I can say this anywhere that Senator Andy Uba connived with Governor Abiodun to hijack the election. We can’t allow this to be. If Andy Uba thinks he is marketable, he should have allowed the process open to test his popularity.”