The Federal Government has stressed the need for the incorporation of technical and business education into the country’s education curriculum as a “good combination” that will benefit Nigeria’s economy immensely, as well as the students who engage themselves in it. It also noted that the technical schools would produce the needed trained and skilled manpower in various sectors of the economy, adding that because of their importance, the Federal Government was poised to give them the necessary support required. The Minister of State for Education, Chukwuemeka Nwajuba, in company with the Registrar and Chief Executive, National Business and Technical Examinations Board, Professor Ifeoma Isiugo-Abanihe, stated this while monitoring the ongoing NABTEB examination in Lagos State. Asked if the Federal Government was planning to move the examination online in the light of COVID-19, Nwajuba said, “Exams at the moment will remain physical because we are moving gradually to online platforms. At the moment, we also do not have platforms that are available at all centres. In other words, it’s a continuous infrastructure development engagement for the Federal Government. “Whilst we are still at it, we will continue with our physical engagement. With nearly 25,000 secondary schools around the country, it is important that all of them engage so that as we produce manpower, they actually become manpower and not just ‘ordinary power.’ Nwajuba expressed satisfaction with the level of development at state-owned technical and business school, Government Technical College, Lagos, wishing that the same development would be replicated across the country. Prof Ifeoma Isiugo-Abanihe expressed pleasure with the conduct of the exam and sufficiency of invigilators, saying the same exam was going on simultaneously across the country. According to her, the Federal Government has provided security cover for all students in the northern part of the country and there was no report of scuffles. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com