The Petroleum Equalisation Fund is currently working on a technology that will check diversion, smuggling and adulteration of petroleum products as they are being moved from depots to marketers’ outlets. The Executive Secretary of PEF, Ahmed Bobboi, disclosed this in an interview with journalists in Abuja on Friday. He said he expected the system called Downstream Automated Fuel Information Management System to come on board by the end of the year. PEF was set up in 1975 to ensure uniformity of price of petroleum products across the country through the reimbursement of marketers for losses they incur in moving products from depots to outlets nationwide. Bobboi said the PEF has migrated from manual to automated system of carrying out its responsibility. He said the Fund had been using technology to track the movements of trucks conveying petroleum products at the loading point and the marketers’ outlets. He added that in the course of carrying out its duties, the Fund discovered some gaps. He said when vehicles load at a point, for instance, there was no record of them until they arrived the outlets. Bobboi said such situation was capable of aiding diversion and smuggling of products which he said had become a cankerworm in the nation’s economy. He said, “What we are doing now is to see how we can cover end-to-end, from loading point, along the way, up to the marketers’ outlets. “We are working on the system that we call Downstream Automated Fuel Information Management System which will capture transactions all the way from the loading point, along the way up to the outlets of the marketers. “We are trying to do this to improve on the efficiency of our works in trying to increase transparency, accuracy and reduce the turnaround time. All these will be done using technology, faster, more efficient and more reliable. “This will reduce the incidences of smuggling, diversion and even adulteration because there are so many things the system can do. “By the end of this year, we are expecting that this will come on board but some of the systems, we have already started. “As time goes on, we will continue to engage stakeholders, including the media.” Bobboi added that while the Fund was currently dealing in Petroleum Motor Spirit, plans were underway towards going into gas. This, he said, was in tandem with the Federal Government’s declaration of 2021-2030 as decade of gas. He added, “We currently deal in PMS for now but we are working towards introducing gas because government has declared 2021-2030 as decade of gas and we need to assist the government in achieving this declaration. “So, PEF is working towards introducing gas equalisation so that people around the country will have full benefit on the equalisation of gas especially for cooking, for usage in cars and for other uses. “We feel we really need to do this because if government can help those dealing in gas by helping in paying transportation cost up to their outlets, that will encourage the marketers to also bring down their prices and sell to consumers at affordable prices.” Bobboi said deregulation does not mean total absence of regulation, saying the government cannot afford to hand off completely. He said what should be in place was ‘qualified deregulation’ which would see government still ‘putting an eye on the system’. He also explained that for the qualified deregulation to take off, some critical infrastructure like transportation had to be put in place. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com