The Statistician-General of the Federation, Dr Yemi Kale, has said that Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey and National Immunisation Coverage Survey will help to enhance government’s decision-making. He spoke during a workshop organised by the National Bureau of Statistics in collaboration with the National Primary Health Care Development Agency and the United Nations Children Fund on Wednesday. The 18-day training taking place in Lagos had as its theme ‘Pilot study of Multiple Indicator Cluster survey and National Immunisation Coverage survey’. He also said that the surveys would serve as a major source of data for tracking the success of the Sustainable Development Goals and also serve as a major source of data for the monitoring of the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda in Nigeria Kale, who was represented by a member of the NBS governing board, Alhaji Bashir Akin, said, “Today, which is the commencement of the training of carefully selected, very effective and knowledgeable trainers, signals another step forward in our quest to deliver a high quality MICS/NICS that will provide a very rich source of data for policy options by government and other interested stakeholders.” From inception, he said, the MICS survey had become the largest source of statistically sound and internationally comparable data on women and children worldwide and with hits combination with NICS in Nigeria and the MICS/NICS had become the pioneer in strategic combination and management of more than one national surveys to effectively save cost and ensure data consistency within the national statistical system. He said that this novel idea in Nigeria was being recommended to other countries. The Project Director, MICS-NICS, Dr Adeyemi Adeniran, said that because of the importance attached to the survey, the NBS and the UNICEF had been working assiduously since 2019 to ensure that it had all necessary arrangements in place not only for the training but for other activities yet to start. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com