The Nigerian Army has said the troops of Operation Hadarin Daji have extended their search and rescue mission to ensure the remaining abducted students of the Federal Government College in Kebbi State are reunited with their loved ones. Bandits had last week stormed the school and abducted many students. The Army had in a few hours after the abduction rescued five students and two teachers, after which another three students and a teacher were freed. The Director of Army Public Relations, Onyema Nwachukwu, in a telephone interview with our correspondent on Tuesday said troops were still on the kidnappers’ trail and would leave no stone unturned until the students were rescued. He said, “Troops of Operation Hadarin Daji are still on the trail of the bandits. The ongoing search and rescue operation has been vigorously sustained by the troops, who are currently combing the general area of Makuku and the adjoining villages for the fleeing bandits. “The Chief of Army Staff, Major General Farouk Yahaya, has given a clear directive to leave no stone unturned until the criminals are tracked down and the abductees rescued.” FG promises to rescue students, teachers Meanwhile, the Federal Government on Tuesday said it was doing everything possible to secure the release of the students kidnapped in Federal Government College. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, Mr Sunday Echono, said this while monitoring the 2021 National Board of Business and Technical Examinations in Abuja. Echono said, “We need to keep our students safe in schools, we are particularly facing a developing problem with one of our Federal Government Colleges in Birnin-Yauri. “Overall, steps are being taking to secure their release; we have several interest groups that come together. “We have different security arrangements to ensure that each of our schools will step up security and set up a communication system where information can be shared very quickly. “A rapid response mechanism has been put in place to ensure a rapid response in emergency.” On the 2021 NABTEB, Echono called on parents to ensure that their children acquire technical skills to advance their dreams for the future. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com