The warring factions of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria will go to the polls on Monday (today) to elect new board members to run the affairs of the federation for the next four years. Incumbent Shehu Gusau’s four-year tenure was largely marred by a leadership tussle following the emergence of a faction led by his vice president Olamide George. While the election is meant to bring peace, it might actually open doors for more crises within the federation. Both camps at loggerheads on how the election should be conducted set up a parallel electoral committee and would be holding separate elections in Kebbi and Abuja. While the Gusau-led board will meet to elect new board members in Kebbi, the George-led faction will gather for elections in Abuja. Our correspondent gathered that the bone of contention bothered on agreement on which, between the 2017 constitution and the one that was amended in Awka in 2019 by the Gusau-led board, would be used for the election. Secretary-General of the George-led faction Adisa Beyioku, who released the group’s election timetable, accused Gusau of failing to convene an extraordinary congress of the federation. “This became necessary following the refusal of Mr Ibrahim Shehu Gusau to transmit a letter to the Secretary-General to convene and prepare the programme for the extraordinary congress in accordance with articles 4, 6.1.4, 8.3.6 and 8.3.9 of the AFN constitution,” Beyioku said. Also speaking with our correspondent, George said only the Secretary-General could call for the election since Gusau was bent on using the amended constitution, which does not recognise the Director-General Siminilaye Pepple. “The WA and CAA have stated the supremacy, we can’t do anything outside their purview and the WA has approved the 2017 constitution,” George told The PUNCH. “The secretary has written to everybody in this election for us to have a common balance, but since Gusau is still going on with the Director-General, we can only go with the secretary.” Firing back, Gusau however said it was only his election that had the backing of the WA and CAA. Gusau referred to Article 6.1.2 of the 2017 AFN Constitution, which states that only the president of the AFN shall convene the congress, while Article 19.1 of the 2019 edition states that the president of the AFN shall convene all congress meetings. “The claim by these other people that the World Athletics has rejected the amended constitution is false and intended to deceive the delegates and the athletics family. It is in recognition and acceptance of the amended constitution that the world body reflected and still has Siminialayi Young Pepple as the Director-General of the AFN, with Gusau as president,” Gusau said. “Hence, any congress not convened by the president will be termed illegal and decisions taken therein will be null, void and of no consequence.” Our correspondent learnt that Gusau had earlier written to the WA on June 2, copying all member federations. The WA legal department, in its reply to Gusau, however said the status quo remained, pending the conclusion of today’s elections. While Gusau is the only known candidate for the office of the president from his own camp, our correspondent gathered that four candidates are vying for the position in the other group. George and Chairman, Delta State Sports Commission, Tonobok Okowa, both confirmed to our correspondent that they were in the race, while former Technical Director of the federation, Omatseye Nesiama, and Chairman, Katsina State Athletics Association, Ahmed Kaita, are also contesting. Our correspondent further learnt that George, who had sports minister Sunday Dare’s backing all through the imbroglio, no longer had his support, with the minister now said to be backing Okowa to lead the AFN. Nesiama also has the backing of former AFN president Solomon Ogba, leaving George relatively in no man’s land. “Dare has dumped George in the middle of nowhere, with Okowa the minister’s preferred choice for the position,” a ministry source,  who spoke on condition of anonymity, told The PUNCH. “The minister is backing Okowa because of Ogba’s success as AFN boss, Delta’s antecedence in athletics and Okowa’s brother, who is governor, to assist financially. “It’s seen as a let down. George understands the system and has been fighting, so it’s a big blow to him.” Not willing to give up, George accused the AFN Secretary-General of releasing guidelines which were not in agreement with the federation’s constitution. In a statement he signed, dated June 11, which he sent to our correspondent, George said he was pulling away from what he called an “unconstitutional process.” “Our attention has been drawn to the publication from the zonal coordinators calling for zonal elections into the six geo-political zones of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria by wrongly quoting Article7.4.2. “It’s also unfortunate that it was stated in the conduct of election guidelines 5.0(XII) that all contestants must sign an undertaking to abide by the guidelines and accept the decision. “This is a trap! We will never fall into it. Why are decisions taken without the congress decision or resolutions on electioneering matters? “We hereby pull away from the ongoing unconstitutional process, until equity, justice and fair play prevails in compliance with the 2017 constitution,” part of George’s statement said. Aside those contesting for the AFN top position, there are also controversies in the zonal and constituency elections. Technical Representative on the present board of the AFN, Brown Ebewele, was suspended by the Athletics Coaches Association of Nigeria after he was accused of disrupting the elections conducted by ACAN and NAATO. In a statement jointly signed by ACAN president Godwin Ogogo and NAATO president Prof. Lucas Ogunjimi, Ebewele was accused of bringing thugs in to deny the accredited delegates entrance from the venue of the election. Ebewele, however, denied disrupting the election and accused Ogunjimi of bias. “I did not have any problem with NAATO, it was the members of NAATO who disagreed with Ogunjimi that they would need to see the list of delegates he was presenting. They said if he didn’t submit the list they wouldn’t allow the voting to take place. “Ogunjimi, who had stepped down for Nasiema, appointed NAATO chairmen in three states as members of the electoral committee and also appointed two other Yoruba speaking coaches. For a six-man electoral committee that was conducting elections for all the states in Nigeria he appointed five Yoruba men to be there. That wasn’t fair in the spirit of federal character,” Ebewele told The PUNCH. “He tried to swell up the number of NAATO members to swell up our number in ACAN, that was when he was asked to bring the list but he refused.” Charles Himah, who was appointed as the group’s Athletics Representative, also accused the AFN of using an unknown guideline to conduct the election. With delegates in Kebbi and Abuja all set for today’s elections, several athletics stakeholders feel the parallel polls could herald another round of accusations and counter-accusations on who should be the authentic AFN president. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com