Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Muhammad Bello, on Thursday, said 98 per cent of the doses of the COVID-19 vaccine allocated to Abuja have been used. This is as he commended residents of the FCT for their response to the vaccination efforts of the government. According to a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Anthony Ogunleye, the minister spoke when he led other members of his cabinet to receive the second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. The statement was titled ‘FCT minister takes second dose of COVID-19 vaccine.’ It read, “Bello revealed that 98 per cent of the doses of the COVID-19 vaccine allocated to the Territory have been utilized and commended residents of the FCT for their response to the vaccination efforts of the government. “He, however, reminded them that it was only through vaccination that herd immunity can be achieved. He, therefore, called on all those who were yet to be vaccinated to do so. “Whatever support the Federal Government is giving to us in the FCT, let’s grab it and use it effectively because, unless we get a substantial percentage of our population fully vaccinated, then we will not reach what the public health officials call herd immunity whereby we can say that the incidence of this particular disease has been conquered. “The minister further noted that while the number of positive cases in the FCT has been on a steady decline, in spite of the large number of residents being tested, residents must not be complacent but should continue to take measures to protect themselves against the virus. “The minister also assured that the FCT Administration will continue to work hard to ensure that every resident is protected against COVID-19, with the efforts of the FCT Health and Human Services Secretariat. “He, thereafter, called on officials of the HHSS to continue to work to maintain all the facilities that have been established and installed for the purpose of the pandemic, to ensure that the FCT is fully prepared for any unforeseen event.”