The Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra has said it will hold the Federal Government responsible for the killing of youths in Igbo land. MASSOB stated that while the apex government had the resources to fish out those involved in the killing of security operatives and burning of police stations, and bring them to book, it was disturbed that innocent citizens were being killed. The National Director of Information of the group, Sunday Okereafor, made the remarks while speaking to The PUNCH in a telephone interview on Monday. He said the level at which security operatives were killing innocent youths in the South-East and the South-South was worrisome. Okereafor said, “The Federal Government is killing Igbo youths in the guise of fighting IPOB. There is a plot to stop our agitation for Biafra and the Federal Government is behind it. We will hold the Federal Government responsible for the killings by security operatives. “We are not happy about the killing of policemen, soldiers and the destruction of government facilities by gunmen. But the President said the other day that Igbo people are IPOB; but am I IPOB? “The killings are too many killings in the South-East and South-South. IPOB is being used to bring anarchy to the South-East; innocent people are being killed. The Nigerian government has helicopters and other weapons, but they should not use them to kill innocent people. “I was at the Federal Medical Centre in Owerri, and the dead bodies there were over 500; it is the same situation in Aba, Abia State.” The MASSOB spokesman warned that those involved in the killing of innocent citizens in the region should be prepared to face the International Criminal Court at The Hague. He said, “We are saying that as they are killing, the record is there. Slobodan Milosevic killed, he was arrested and taken to The Hague, but he died in prison. Charles Taylor also faced trial and was jailed. “Those killing the Igbo must be held responsible; we will not leave them to go. Let them continue to kill. Nigeria has what it takes to get the criminals (burning police stations, killing police and soldiers and setting INEC offices ablaze), but they are attacking innocent civilians. All of them that killed our youths must be brought to book at The Hague.”