Mikano International and Geely Nigeria have hit the Nigerian automobile market with a compact-sport utility vehicle, called ‘the Coolray’. The Executive Director of Mikano International Limited, Mofid Karameh, at its launch in Lagos, said, “What you see here tonight is the result of years of dedication and commitment towards providing premium, quality vehicles at affordable prices. “Geely Nigeria as you now know is the result of an exclusive partnership between Mikano International and Geely Auto. A powerful partnership that is based on the strength of two companies that share a common vision, making premium products and services a standard for everyone.” The launch took place at the Geely Nigeria showroom in Lagos. The General Manager, Mikano, Lokman Jouni, said, “Why Geely Nigeria? Geely is the owner of Volvo, the largest shareholder in AG Daimler (parent company for Mercedes Benz), owners of Terrafugia, Zeekr, LEVC (makers of the famous electric London black cabs). “Geely Autos also owns 50 per cent of Proton and 51 per cent of Lotus, the British race car company. So, we are bringing, safe, stylish, and affordable cars made in Nigeria.” He said the companies were tired of imported cars from different countries. He said it was time for made-in-Nigeria cars, adding that he was proud to present Geely as the pioneer. According to a statement made available to our correspondent, the compact SUV, which is capable of self-driving, among other high-tech functionalities, comes with a five year warranty or 150,000km, and easy access financing options. The company said, “It has lowest cost of maintenance and readily available original parts; world-class after-sales service with available 24/7 roadside assistance and mobile service; guaranteed resale value (via trade-in option up to five-year depreciation); guaranteed best value for money (quality/price ratio considering quality and technological features and advancements); and Mikano International’s worry-free protection shield.” According to the statement, other features of the car include remote engine starter; G-pilot system that includes the Automatic Parking Assistant (with levels of up to L2 Autonomous drive); sensors and cameras around the car, for an extra sense of awareness and safety; hill traction control; cruise control and blind-spot detection. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com