The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria has called for collaboration among the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, Economic and Financial Crimes Commission and the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria to check illicit financing flow in the country. As part of the collaboration, the institute said it was proposing an annual joint conference/ that would focus on proffering solutions to the challenge. The President/Chairman of Council, CIBN, Dr. Bayo Olugbemi, said this during a visit to the Executive Chairman/Chief Executive of NDLEA, Brig Gen. Mohammed Buba Marwa (rtd) in Abuja recently. A statement from the institute said the CIBN president said that the purpose of the visit was to discuss how the institute could deepen the relationship between the agency and the banking industry towards building a better Nigeria. Olugbemi explained the CIBN’s readiness to collaborate with the NDLEA Academy on relevant certification programmes as well as to provide technical expertise to enhance the existing competencies in the NDLEA Academy. He sought support of the NDLEA on advocacy and awareness campaign to the youths on the dangers hard drugs posed to health by leveraging on the tertiary institutions within its catchment areas, adding that the institute’s advocacy to strengthen the role of NDLEA and need for banking sector’s support. Olugbemi asked for support of the agency for the proposed amendment of the CIBN Act of 2007, to enhance the power of the disciplinary tribunal to discipline erring bankers, among others. He also applauded the agency for the effective and efficient administration in the fight against smuggling, production, trafficking and use of illicit drugs. While welcoming the CIBN team, the Executive Chairman/Chief Executive Officer, NDLEA, Marwa, said that about 15 million Nigerian youth were into illicit drug consumption which raised the level of criminality in the country especially banditry and incessant kidnaps of school pupils. Marwa said the agency had been dealing drastically with a supply chain of illicit drugs. He stated that over N90bn worth of drugs had been confiscated by the agency while going after the properties of the drug barons. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com