The Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Insurance and Actuarial Matters, Darlington Nwokocha, has said that the committee is reviewing all obsolete insurance laws in the country. He said this would make the Nigerian insurance industry to meet the best international global practice on insurance. According to him, a developed insurance industry would support the economy. He said this during the opening ceremony of the 2021 NDIC retreat for members of the House of Representatives Committee on Insurance and Actuarial Matters in Lagos on Thursday. Nwokocha said, “Considering the fact that from the legislative side, we are working hard to look into your Act to see those clauses that are obsolete. “We are looking to ensure that necessary amendments are being made to give you all the strength you need to drive the process.” He said the committee was well experienced to use all its instrumentalities to drive the process of giving the NDIC all its legal backings. The Managing Director, Chief Executive Officer, NDIC, Mr Bello Hassan, said, the corporation would continue to engage and cooperate with the National Assembly through the House Committee on Insurance and Actuarial Matters to address issues that were germane to the efficient operation of the deposit insurance system in Nigeria, and by extension the sustenance of the safety and stability of the nation’s banking system. He said, “It is our strong believe that, the deposit insurance system, administered by the NDIC, which remains an important component of the financial safety-net arrangements, has an important role to play in the ongoing economic recovery agenda. “This snowballs from the fact that, among others, deposit insurance system safeguards depositors’ funds in case of bank failure, thereby promoting public confidence and contributing to financial system stability.” The Chairman, NDIC, Mrs Ronke Shokefun, said the corporation had over the years, made tremendous efforts to enhance public confidence and promote financial stability in the country through the fulfilment of its mandates. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com