Federal pensioners under the Defined Benefits Scheme on Sunday confirmed the receipt of payments for 12 months following the consequential pension increment recently approved by the Federal Government. On May 26, 2021, the Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate announced that it had commenced the payment of the consequential adjustment to pensioners under the Defined Benefit Scheme. In the preceding month, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had given approval for the implementation of the consequential adjustment to the pension benefits occasioned by the new minimum wage increase of April 2019. The Executive Secretary, PTAD, Dr. Chioma Ejikeme, had promised that the upward adjustment of pensioners’ benefits would take effect from May 2021. Consequently, pensioners in the four operational departments of the directorate were meant to receive their accrued arrears. The departments include the Civil Service Pension Department, Parastatals Pension Department, Police Pension Department, and Customs, Immigration and Prisons Pension Department. Confirming the receipt of payments for 12 months, beneficiaries under the Federal Parastatals and Private Sector Pensioners Association of Nigeria stated that the government had eventually responded to their request on the need to pay the arrears. Although they stated that the payment was supposed to be for 24-months, the pensioners told our correspondent that the government had assured them that it would settle the outstanding arrears in due course. “They have paid for 12 months, which we are glad about but there are still outstanding payments to the settled. However, we need to support the government,” the President-General, FEPPPAN, Chief Temple Ubani, said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com