In this report, JOHNNY EDWARD and KELVIN EKERETE write about the emerging stars who could make an impact at the Euros 1. Jeremy Doku (Belgium) Age: 19 Position: striker/winger
Club: Rennes Jeremy Doku joined Rennes from Anderlecht for more than £20m in October 2020. The highly-rated 19-year-old has hit the ground running on the international scene with his quick and direct style of play. He scored in his first international start against Iceland last September and registered a goal and two assists against Belarus in March. He will complement the array of attacking talents of Michy Batshuayi, Christian Benteke, Eden Hazard, Romelu Lukaku, and Leandro Trossard at the disposal of manager Roberto Martinez. 2. Jordan Larsson (Sweden) Age: 23 Position: striker Club: Spartak Moscow Son of the legendary Henrikh Larsson, Jordan will be relied upon for goals at this tournament. The 23-year-old scored 15 goals for Spartak Moscow this season and has been heavily linked with a summer move to Borussia Dortmund and West Ham. 3. Jules Kounde (France) Age: 22 Position: centre-back Club: Sevilla Dubbed the new Cafu, French defender Kounde was outstanding with Sevilla in the recently concluded La Liga season. Known for his rampaging runs forward, the 22-year-old is a modern centre-back who is good in the air despite not being too tall. He has this intelligence – for positioning and the awareness of space – plus the pace that helps, and he is very good on the ball. 4. Adam Hlozek (Czech) Age: 18 Position: striker Club: Sparta Prague Hlozek joined Sparta’s academy when he was 12, and has been rated Czech’s biggest talent since Tomas Rosicky was discovered. The teenage forward has had a superb season, and despite missing four-and-a-half months with a foot injury, he finished as the joint-top scorer in the Czech topflight with 15 goals, which includes a hat-trick in April and four goals in 23 minutes on the last day of the Czech campaign in just 19 appearances for Sparta Prague. He also had seven assists. His performance earned him a new four-year contract at Sparta, amid interests from West Ham. Hlozek made history on his international debut i
last September, becoming the youngest player in Czech Republic’s history at the tender age of 18. 5. Becir Omeragic (Switzerland) Age: 19 Position: centre-back Club: FC Zurich Omeragic is a right-footed centre-half who made his international debut last October, impressing as he played the full 90 minutes against Croatia. Currently with FC Zurich but courted by RB Salzburg, Borussia Monchengladbach and Wolfsburg, Omeragic has a Bosnian background and is from a football family: his dad and uncle were professionals, his elder brother Nedim is also at Zurich and his cousin Edin is a goalkeeper for Servette. 6. Ryan Gravenberch (Netherlands) Age: 19 Position: midfielder Club: Ajax Ryan Gravenberch became Ajax’s youngest senior player when he made his debut in September 2018 aged 16 years and 130 days – beating Clarence Seedorf’s record by 112 days. The teenager was used as a substitute in all three World Cup qualifiers in March and came off the bench in the last warm-up game against Georgia to nod home from close range for his first international goal. Gravenberch is technically gifted. He can play box-to-box, but also left and right and one of his goals in this season’s Champions League was a laser into the top corner against FC Midtjylland. He is very much seen as the next Paul Pogba, although he has insisted his style is more similar to Zinedine Zidane’s and describes himself as a “contortionist” on the football field 7. Orkun Kokcu (Turkey) Age: 20 Position: midfielder Club: Feyenoord Kokcu was born and raised in the Netherlands, but chose to represent Turkey despite playing for the Dutch at U-18 and U-19 levels. The 20-year-old midfielder is a strong, unfussy but dynamic central midfielder who made a scoring debut for Feyenoord aged 17. Premier League giants Arsenal, Leeds and Leicester have all been watching the youngster closely. 8. Alexander Isak (Sweden) Age: 21 Position: striker Club: Real Sociedad Isak’s lanky frame led to obvious comparisons to Zlatan Ibrahimovic when he broke through as a teenager. The 21-year-old scored 17 league goals for Real Sociedad in La Liga last season, which had eyebrows raised on why Borussia Dortmund allowed him leave in 2019. He became the youngest player to score for Sweden when he netted against Slovakia four years ago and added three more in qualifying for the European Championship and another against Kosovo in a World Cup qualifier in March. Barcelona are interested, but Sociedad are said to have a €70m release clause in his contract. 9. Alex Kral (Czech) Age: 23 Position: midfielder Club: Spartak Moscow Kral has been likened to a midefield gem who has the qualities of both Tomas Soucek and Vladimir Coufal. He is very good on the ball, with the 23-year-old blessed with great mentality and bags of energy. 10. Nuno Mendes (Portugal) Age: 18 Position: left-back Club: Sporting Mendes, who was called up by Portugal for the first time in March, made 34 appearances in all competitions this season for Sporting and helped them end their 19-year-wait for the Portuguese title. To be a regular in a title-winning team at just 18 says plenty about his abilities and maturity, which, allied to the boundless energy of his youth, marks him out as a rare prospect. He has the skills to rival any winger or number 10 going forward but is disciplined defensively too. He’s also sharp on spotting potential moves to start with throws, long or short – an increasingly important part of the game with some clubs now employing specialist throw-in coaches.