The Federal Government has said that it is targeting the creation of about 3,000 direct jobs with the airports that have been designated as special economic zones. The Managing Director, Nigeria Export Processing Zones Authority, Prof. Adesoji Adesugba, disclosed this during the courtesy visit of the Managing Director of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria, Rabiu Yadudu, to the agency on Wednesday in Abuja. Recall that in May, The PUNCH reported that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), approved four airports in the country as special economic zones. The approved airports include Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos; Port Harcourt International Airport, Rivers; Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, Kano and Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja. Adesugba said, “We expect that with direct employment we should have nothing less than 30,000, however, direct and indirect employment will be much more than that.” He noted that the zones would create indirect jobs by engaging the services of suppliers, producers, marketers, transporters who will be involved in the economic activities within the airports. The NEPZA boss also stated that his agency and FAAN were ready to work together to leverage the designated airports to deepen economic activities and significantly contribute to the country’s Gross Domestic Product. “With the President’s designation of the airports, NEPZA and FAAN are ready and eager to work together to ensure that we bring about a model which is going to be much better that what you see in places like Dubai, deepen economic activities and to significantly contribute to the country’s GDP”, he said. According to Adesugba, the agencies had set up an implementation committee, which was expected to commence operations immediately to develop intended structures for the zones. The NEPZA MD also announced the establishment of a Nigeria economic zones institute in Kano, which he said, would be fully functional in a year’s time. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com