THERE are indications that the Spiritual Director of Adoration Ministry Enugu, Nigeria, Rev. Fr. Ejike Mbaka, may have been summoned to Abuja for interrogation by the Operatives of the Department of State Services. Our correspondent gathered on Monday that DSS operatives had visited the Adoration ground to deliver a letter of the invitation on Friday. But they were said not to have met the fiery cleric at the church premises. Although details of why the intelligence unit summoned the priest were not stated, it might not be unconnected with Fr. Mbaka’s criticism of the Buhari government in recent times. Reacting to the DSS invitation in his Sunday message, Mbaka said, “I got a call on Thursday that the DSS people from Abuja came here (Enugu) with a letter of invitation to Abuja; over what? What I cannot understand is how the mother church in Nigeria could be cowed. “The mother church is both a lamb and lion. The Bible says if the foundation is destroyed, what can the just man do? “All these are efforts to dumbfound a prophet; all priests can be dumbfounded but no prophet should. We must protect the sheep. In this time, when killings are all over, when there is hunger everywhere, people do not have hope again. The only hope I have is God. Anybody who will stop people from worshipping here will regret it. “I am the servant here. They don’t understand history. I spoke against Abacha; I went to Minna to tell Babangida what was wrong in his time. I spoke to Obasanjo face to face; I perform under the anointing of the Holy Spirit. I ministered to the late President Yar’Adua; I am being used by a supernatural spirit called the Holy Spirit. “If they are attacking me here and there, even from those that should save me, no wahala (no problem). The Bible says if God is for us, who can be against us? Only God can be God. I heard the security people did not accept the letter. They asked them to come on Monday to give me the letter.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com