drtayooke@gmail.com It is said in ancient Greece, those whom the gods want to destroy, they first make mad. With the madness of constitution amendment talking shops initiated to distract from the daily, even hourly news of kidnappings, murder and mayhem on the streets of Nigeria, the rising tide of youth unemployment, excruciating pain of hunger and starvation spreading like bushfire and, latterly, the gagging of citizens through the ‘ban’ on Twitter operations, it is no exaggeration to say that the country is, once again, tethering on the edge. The latest, perhaps, most egregious of the kidnappings occurred at Greenfield University, (a private institution), located in Kaduna recently. The captives were held for a couple of weeks, then, released on Saturday, May 29, 2021, following payments of a ransom by their families. Some of the family members came on TV to confirm the total ransom payment of N180m ($500,000), plus 14 brand new motorbikes for the pleasure of the kidnappers. The Governor of Kaduna State, Mallam Nasir el-Rufai, had earlier vowed never to negotiate with kidnappers even where his own children were the victims. A very tough, high-minded principled stance you might say, until you realise that the governor and his family live in an impenetrable fortress, in the Government House, with the panoply of heavily-armed security detail attached to them around the clock. Besides, the Nigerian political elite are not known for sending their children to local schools anyway. So, what option did the parents of the kidnapped students have knowing how weak and ineffectual government rescue missions are in this country? For the parents, desperate for the quick return of their children unharmed, paying a ransom appeared to be the best of the available evils, but it has set a dangerous precedent for all institutions of higher learning, as well as sent a chilling message to other would-be kidnappers: student kidnapping pays handsomely. There is now an implicit ransom on the head of every student in Nigeria. Proprietors of every institution, especially privately-owned ones, can no longer sleep with both eyes closed, since their institutions are perceived to be populated by students from very ‘rich’ homes. They have now become even more vulnerable than they were a few days ago. It is sadly a matter of when, not if, a copy-cat kidnapping will take place. All universities in Nigeria, especially private universities, ought to hold an emergency congress on their campuses ASAP with only one thing on the agenda: safety and security. It would be surprising if they have not already done so in droves, lest they become sitting ducks. That is what daily life has turned into in today’s Nigeria. Kidnapping is no longer the exception, but the norm in all parts of the country. The spate of kidnapping and the attendant brutality surrounding it speak to a larger atmosphere of a country no longer at ease with itself. The centre, it seems, can no longer hold. The President, President Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has admitted as much. He has even attempted an audacious appropriation of the United States ‘AFRICOM’ military base from Germany to Africa, close to the “theatre of conflict” where it is really happening. Although he did not mention Nigeria by name, the insinuation was clear. (See, “AFRICOM: Buhari’s white flag of surrender”, The PUNCH, May 4, 2021). Would it not be better for Nigeria to apply to be the 51st state of the US instead? We can then sit back and allow the US awesome Marines to take on ‘the enemy’ within. This would be funny were it not for the existential issues embedded in it. Listening to Nigerian political leaders sometimes makes you wonder whether to laugh or cry. How did we arrive here? The situation of hopelessness did not arise over night; it has been brewing for a long while. It has now reached a crescendo. The most notable starting point occurred by the annulment of the freest, most democratic election ever held in the history of Nigeria: the June 12, 1993 presidential election won by Moshood Abiola from the South-West region of Nigeria. The then military strongman, Ibrahim Babangida, (from the northern part of Nigeria) “annulled” the election on the basis that the outcome was “unacceptable to the military” and “significant sections” of the country’s ruling elite. The decision was a big jolt to the patience of Nigerians, who took to the streets demanding an end to military rule and the immediate enthronement of democracy. Abiola died in mysterious circumstances whilst in custody of the then maximum ruler, General Sani Abacha, who also, fortuitously, died in mysterious circumstances within days of each other. Thereafter, the military hurriedly handed over power to former military strongman, General Olusegun Obasanjo (turned civilian democrat) in 1999. Elections were held under a constitution written by the departing military, disguised as emanating from“the people”. The election and the fanfare that accompanied it were a dreadful mistake. A Sovereign National Conference ought to have been declared upon the departure of the military, and a new federal arrangement trashed out before any election was held. Once you handed power to a bunch of latter-day politicians, with unearned privileges and spoils of office, they are unlikely to push for fundamental change. They will have become the establishment whose interest and priority it is to maintain the status quo. The ongoing constitution amendment show taking place in different corners of the country is, by consequence, an exercise in futility. You do not seek to amend a fundamentally, irredeemably, flawed document; you negotiate, re-write, and re-enact. For the avoidance of doubt, neither President Buhari, nor the National Assembly can ‘restructure’ Nigeria. That is a task for the people in a Constituent Assembly conveyed for the purpose. News of Nigeria’s demise as an entity has been heralded and predicted several times, especially, by some notable Washington think tanks. Every tragedy on Nigerian streets is seized upon as evidence of their prediction coming to pass. To them, Nigeria is a “failed state” only waiting to collapse.The concept of a “failed state” in respect of Africa is intellectually incoherent in my view. It tends to obscure rather than illuminate. This is for the simple reason that the states in Africa were an artificial creation of foreign invaders in the first place. African states were conceived and shared out on the cartographic table of Western European powers at the infamous Berlin Conference in 1885, (Africa’s al-Nakbah, “The Catastrophe”). Henceforth, the (nominal) states so carved up were like castles built on sand, bound to collapse at some point. Based on that, when highly-placed political pundits in the West talk freely of a “failed state” in the context of Africa, they do so in a historical vacuum. They do so within the prisms of modern Western states. Their knowledge of the peculiarities of the modern African states is patchy at best. That said, if there is anything capable of tipping Nigeria over the edge, it would be the intransigence of the ruling elite. A forthright call for a Sovereign National Conference has been made, and pooh-poohed several times, a lesser call for a Constitutional Conference has also been made and was derided. Even a benign, moderate call for an all-expenses-paid, “Summit of Hope” was called only last month, by the legal icon and statesman, Aare Afe Babalola, and was rebuffed. All avenues for a peaceful change have thus far been trampled on. It was President JF Kennedy who said, at the height of his power, that those who make peaceful revolution impossible, make violent revolution inevitable. The ruling cliques in Nigeria are adept at starring at the abyss first before pulling back. It is now so obvious, (even to a Martian), that they are drinking in the last chance saloon. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com