CONFUSION has trailed the emergence of Senator Andy Uba, as the candidate of the All Progressives Congress, for the November 6 Anambra State Governorship poll. Chairman of the APC primary election panel and Governor of Ogun State, Dapo Abiodun, while announcing the outcome of the party primary at Golden Tulip Hotel, Agulu Lake, Awka, early on Sunday announced Uba as winner. He said Uba polled 230,201 votes to defeat his closest rival, Johnbosco Onunkwo, who polled 28,746 votes out of the total of 348, 490, votes cast. The governor further explained that the election committee adopted the open ballot mode also known as Option A4 to conduct the poll. 13 aspirants contested the polls. Abiodun noted that although there were a few hiccups, the event was largely peaceful. However, the Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, who spoke to journalists on the telephone rejected the polls proposing that another one be held on June 29. Eleven out of the 14 APC aspirants who spoke to reporters on Saturday said the primary did not hold. The spokesperson for the aspirants, George Moghalu, stated this at a press conference in Awka. Moghalu said, “Anybody who claimed that there was primary is fraudulent and does not wish APC well in the November 6 election. He appealed to the party’s leadership to come up with a fresh date for the primary to ensure that the party beat the deadline set by the Electoral Act. Also, the state APC Publicity Secretary, Okelo Madukaife, dissociated the party from the primary election. He said in a statement, “The figures have nothing to do with the Anambra State APC Primaries which did not hold and for which we look forward to the Caretaker National Executive of our great party to choose a new date within the INEC timetable.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com