A coalition of 75 Northern groups under the aegis of Northern Consensus Movement has placed N100 million for anybody who could produce the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, for him to continue his trial over alleged treason. The NCM specifically accused Kanu and IPOB militant wing, Eastern Security Network of masterminding the recent spate of attacks on Northern communities in the South East. The declaration came one week after the declaration by Igbo Elders Council that more than 5,000 Igbo youths have been killed and over 10,000 others, thrown into detention camps in the ongoing special security operation in the South-East. The Spokesperson for NCM, Dr. Awwal Abdullahi Aliyu, during a press briefing held on Thursday night in Abuja, urged the United States, United Kingdom and European Union to facilitate Kanu’s repatriation to Nigeria to face treasonable charges against him. He said, “The Northern Consensus Movement, an amalgamation of more than 75 civil society groups of Northern extraction, has taken it upon ourselves, as active citizens of this country, Nigeria, to state in unequivocal terms that:  “We are declaring Nnamdi Kanu wanted for crimes against humanity and for instigating the killing of innocent Northerners in the South East via his hate speech. We want him to answer for the killing and destruction of Northerners residing and undertaking lawful businesses in the South Eastern part of Nigeria. “So, we are placing a bounty of N100m as an offer to anyone who can produce him alive, hale, hearty, and uninjured to us for onward delivery to the security agencies for the continuation of his prosecution. “We call on both the US, the UK, and the EU, a champions of democracy, rule of law, and freedoms of speech and expression to kindly and humble respect Nigeria’s sovereignty and facilitate the repatriation of Nnamdi Kanu to Nigeria. “This is so he can face his treason, and possibly fresh terrorism and genocide charges against innocent citizens of Nigeria.” The IEC which comprised eminent leaders from the South East region, raised the alarm of the killing of 5,000 Igbo in a communique issued after their marathon meeting in Abuja sent to THE PUNCH. Among those at the meeting who signed the communique were a former Governor of Anambra State, Chukwuemeka Ezeife; former Minister of Education, Prof. Ihechukwu Madubuike; Prof. C.E. Nwekeaku; Onwu Arua Onwu and HRM, Eze Ibe Nwosu. The controversial security operation which involves troops of the Nigeria Armed Force and the Nigeria Police Force, was launched about a fortnight ago in a bid to fish out criminal elements behind the  recent spate of killing of security operatives and burning down of public infrastructure in the region. When the operation commenced, the Inspector General of Police had accused the Indigenous People of Biafra and Eastern Security Network of complicity in the serial killings and arson, an allegation the groups had since denied. The communique reads, “The list is endless; so far, over 5000 Igbo youths have been killed in the South East, while more than 10,000 others are languishing in horrible detention camps in different parts of the country under questionable circumstances. “Yet, none of these victims was a member of IPOB and ESN. There were not even members of the unknown gunmen. Both IPOB and ESN have severally distanced themselves from the current terror and tension in the South East, yet countless innocent citizens are killed in the name of fishing out presumed members of IPOB, ESN and unknown gun men.” The current militarisation and widespread carnage in the South East, the IEC had said, has precipitated unprecedented fear, tension and untold hardships on the people in the zone, thereby aggravating the security challenges in the land. The elders had lamented that in spite of the ban on road blocks nationwide, security agencies in the South East routinely stop motorists at illegal checkpoints, search them in most dehumanizing manner under the guise of fishing out presumed members of IPOB and ESN. According to them, those arrested by security operatives were mainly young males who were not charged to court to defend themselves but and were marched away to unknown destinations,  most of whom never return alive. The communique said, “They arrest, maim, and, sometimes shoot innocent and hapless youths, and cart away their corpses to unknown destinations, thus denying them the opportunity of burial. The Igbo tradition values burial rites for the repose of the soul of the dead, yet our young victims of the military onslaught are denied that opportunity. “We condemn without any reservation the destruction of public property in the South East because it is not in our character to indulge in arson and brigandage. “We believe, however, that it is not fair and just to use a sledge hammer to kill harmless flies as many victims of this joint security agencies onslaught are hapless and innocent Igbo youths and other citizens, who have become victims of circumstances. “The current military onslaught against the Igbos will not bring the much needed peace and stability in the South East in particular and Nigeria in general. “Dialogue, consultations, conferences , respect for the rule of law and fundamental human rights, democracy, accountability, transparency and good governance, as well as immediate restructuring of the country, resource control, equity, justice and fairness in all government policies, programs, projects and appointments in the public service are the most feasible path to sanity, peace, unity and progress of Nigeria.”