FOURTEEN persons, including two members of a family; Mr. Darap Ayuba Rap (aka Faa), and his younger brother, Mr. Stephen Ayuba Rap, have been confirmed dead in two separate attacks by gunmen in Plateau State. It was learnt that while 12 persons were killed in Sabon Layi village, Kuru community, Jos South Local Government Area, two other persons were killed in Zogu village, Miango community in the Bassa LGA of the state. Villagers said the attacks occurred on Sunday night while the people were sleeping. While five persons were injured in Kuru attacks, two others sustained injuries in Zogu community The lawmaker representing Jos South Local Government Area in the Plateau State House of Assembly, Fom Gwattson, confirmed the killing of 12 persons in Kuru community to The PUNCH in Jos on Monday Gwattson said, “Some gunmen last night attacked my constituency and killed 12 persons in Sabon Layi community. I have just been informed of the development and this is completely unacceptable.” The National President of the Irigwe Development Association, Ezekiel Bini, who also confirmed the killing of two persons in Zogu village, added that two other persons were injured during the attack by gunmen in the community. Bini said that one of those injured had been rushed to the Jos University Teaching Hospital while the second person was moved to another hospital in Miango for treatment. The spokesman for the state Police Command, Ubah Ogaba, when contacted, said that 10 persons were killed during the attack in Jos South LGA. Ogaba said, “The Plateau State Police Command received a report that 10 persons were shot dead in a drinking joint at Sabon Layi, Kuru in Jos South LGA by yet to be identified gunmen who drove in with a Hilux and shot sporadically. “Meanwhile, we have arrested three suspects in connection with the recent killings in Kwi and we also have names of suspects who we are trailing in respects of the recent killings in Dong community as well.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com