The ruling All Progressives Congress has said that the insurgency which its government is facing was inherited from the administration led by the Peoples Democratic Party. The APC said the seed of insurgency was sown by the PDP “when it handled the Boko Haram insurgency in an inept and incompetent manner.” This was in response to the “false claims by the Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, who lied that the Federal Government has lost control of the security situation.” The party said this in a statement signed by the National Secretary, Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, John James Akpanudoedehe, titled, ‘APC inherited insurgency from a clueless PDP government.’ The statement read in part, “The remarks by the Rivers state governor, whose party members call a dictator, flies against the continuous efforts of our security forces who are toiling day and night and successfully rolled back the Boko Haram insurgency it inherited to a small part on the shores of Lake Chad. “Nigerians can recall that the insurgents once attacked places of worship, markets and gathering of citizens in many states of the Federation before the APC administration led by President Muhammadu Buhari galvanised and equipped the armed forces to degrade their capacity to strike all over the country. “It is ironic that the dictator at the Rivers State government house has forgotten so soon that kidnapping for ransom, like the Boko Haram insurgency, did not start under this administration, but every effort is being made to stop it along with its twin evil of banditry. “The APC administration has consistently worked for the best interest of Nigeria and will not be distracted by the antics of the PDP designed to mislead Nigerians into assuming that the PDP they rejected in free and fair elections in 2015 and 2019 is worthy of their trust. “A leopard cannot change its spots. The PDP is clearly in disarray. It was a failure in governance and a shocking failure as an opposition party. Nigerians cannot risk the country’s future in the hands of the same political party that brought the rot the APC administration is clearing.”