The 11-man panel investigating the remittance activities of the Nigerian Ports Authority from 2016 to May 2021 has called on staff and the general public for their contribution through a memorandum in the ongoing probe. The Secretary of the Administrative Panel of Inquiry, Gabriel Fan, made the call in a public notice signed on behalf of the chairman that the request for memoranda is in line with the mandate of the panel. The notice reads: “This is to notify the general public of Mr President’s approval of the Administrative Panel of Inquiry into the management of the Nigerian Ports Authority from 2016–May, 2021 and the subsequent constitution of the administrative panel by the Honourable Minister of Transportation, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, CON, with the following Terms of Reference: “Examine and investigate the administrative policies and strategies adopted by the management of Nigerian Ports Authority and confirm compliance with extant laws and rules from 2016 to May 2021. “Examine and investigate issues leading to the termination of pilotage and other contracts of Nigerian Ports Authority and confirm compliance with the terms of the respective contracts, court rulings and Presidential directives. “Examine and investigate compliance with the communication channel as obtains in the Public Service. Examine and investigate the procurement of contracts from 2016 to May, 2021. “To determine the revenues, expenditures and remittances to government by NPA from 2016 to May, 2021 vis-à-vis Government Financial Regulations. Come up with suggestions and advice that would strengthen the operations of Nigerian Ports Authority. And any other matter that may be necessary in the course of the assignment.” He added that in line with its mandate, the panel wished to invite the staff of NPA, stakeholders and the general Public to submit memoranda on the activities of the Nigerian Ports Authority within the stated period. It said, “All memoranda should be addressed to the Secretary, Administrative Panel of Inquiry, Federal Ministry of Transportation, 3rdFloor, Legal Services Department, Bukar Dipcharima House, Central Business District, Abuja; and soft copies to – api.fmt@gmail.com “All memoranda with necessary appendices should reach the Office of the Secretary within seven days from the date of this publication. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com