THE Islamic Movement of Nigeria on Wednesday raised fresh fears on the safety of its leader, Ibrahim El-Zakzaky, and his wife, saying their health had deteriorated. Our correspondent learnt that hearing on his case comes up on Thursday (today) at a Kaduna High Court. The IMN claimed that “there are up to 55 bullet fragments with excessive lead and cadmium poisoning in his body.” While demanding their immediate and unconditional release, the organisation said the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and his regime should be held responsible should anything happen to them. A member of the Academic Forum of IMN, Abdullahi Musa, expressed these concerns in a statement in Abuja titled, “Sheikh El-Zakzaky’s life in danger, as his health keeps on deteriorating.” According to him, if a government bends the laws to pursue an unjust cause, it will simply buttress its position on the rule of law as not having one iota of integrity and truth. The statement reads, “Up till now, they have been suffering from many injuries in their bodies and resultant multiple life-threatening health challenges. Even so, the current health condition of Sheikh El-Zakzaky and his wife is causing considerable distress. It is also a constant source of worry to many a Nigerian citizen. “On February 24, 2020, Kaduna High Court affirmed them unfit for trial. So, an order was immediately given by Justice Gideon Kurada, directing the officials of the central prison in Kaduna to grant them access to their doctors, but all to little or no avail. “The health situation of Sheikh El-Zakzaky and his wife does not only require their having access to qualified medical personnel right off, but also a medical facility with up-to-date equipment. This should be with immediacy of response to the emergency on hand.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com