GIVEN the intractable destruction of public facilities that is assuming a scary level, drastic action is required to halt the lawlessness. The act is becoming a pastime for criminals who wantonly vandalise public facilities without batting an eyelid. Lately, in the South-East and South-South where the clamour for secession is high, critical public assets, including police stations and offices of the Independent National Electoral Commission have come under continual attacks. This is dangerous. The Federal Government, which notes the activity with dismay, describes it as not just vandalism but terrorism. This is apt and the vandals must be so treated. Public property belongs to all and should be protected by all and sundry. But the intolerable act is not limited to agitators. The Federal Government observed that railway tracks were being destroyed, bridge railings being removed, manhole covers being pilfered, streetlights and other power infrastructure, oil pipelines, telecoms facilities and critical aviation infrastructure were either being damaged or stolen. The Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Muhammed Bello, during a town hall meeting on protecting public infrastructure organised by the Ministry of Information and Culture in conjunction with the National Orientation Agency, said the FCT administration would need N2.6 billion to replace 25,462 assets vandalised in the FCT. This is undeniably alarming, an indication that a major crisis is looming. It is a situation that must be quickly tackled before it festers like a bad sore. The Lagos State situation perhaps paints a grimmer picture as the level of destruction of public assets worsens. The state, celebrated as the country’s commercial capital, has yet to fully recover from the trauma following the destruction of public and private facilities in the state when the October 2020, the #EndSARS protest against police brutality and bad governance was hijacked by hoodlums. The state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Gbenga Omotoso, stated that 80 Bus Rapid Transit vehicles were burnt, with 27 of them costing $200,000 each, 57 amounting to $100,000 each, all totalling about N3.9 billion. The hoodlums torched the multi-million naira forensic and DNA centre, the Igbosere High Court, local government secretariat buildings, and several vehicles, public buildings in the state and streetlights, among others. The state police command said that a total of 25 police stations were attacked and razed by hoodlums during the protests. The state governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who expressed sadness over the development after touring the affected areas, said the state would need N1 trillion to rebuild the facilities. This month, the Anti-Kidnapping Unit of the Nasarawa State Police Command arrested two suspects, Mohammed Abdullahi and Abubakar Nuhu, for allegedly vandalising railway sleepers and attempting to bribe officers of the unit with N160,000. One of the suspects said that he was a food trader and contracted by his boss to accompany him to buy rail sleepers from one Godwin, who allegedly vandalised the items in Agyaragu Tofa, Lafia LGA, and Angwan Alago in the Kadarko District, Keana LGA of the state. Railway tracks and sleepers had been vandalised in many parts of the state in recent times. Earlier last month, the Ogun State Police Command arrested six persons for vandalising railway lanes at the Oteyi area of Ibogun in the Ifo LGA of the state. The suspects, Taiwo Ismaila, Egbekunle Abiodun, Abdullah Sanni, Nuru Ibrahim, Wasiu Aweda and Babatunde Sikiru, were arrested upon information received by the Divisional Police Officer, Ibogun Division, Samuel Oladele, that vandals were removing some rods along the rail lines. The 156-kilometre rail system cost $1.5 billion to build, with loans from China not yet paid for. Additionally, this is an invitation for disastrous train accidents. In overturning the development, the Federal Government should integrate a buy-in project to re-orientate the people. The belief that public facilities are government assets is misplaced, erroneous and illogical. The NOA should be roused from its prolonged slumber to carry out its duties in this regard. Re-orientation of the citizens must be unremitting, conscientiously packaged and executed. The people should be made to see public assets as collective facilities built essentially for public welfare. Twenty-four-hour patrol of public facilities is critical to curbing constant damage of public assets. Monitoring and enforcement are routine, everyday business. Government, both at the state and federal levels, should see it in this prism and ensure robust collaborations to halt the narrative of nonstop damage to public property. Governments cannot expend huge money on building facilities for public use and go to sleep believing they would self-protect without making a provision for such. That amounts to the basic pinnacle of irresponsibility and outsized detached approach to governance. Punitive measures must be taken against vandals to warn aspiring ones of the government’s zero-tolerance for anti-social behaviour. Modern technology is useful in arresting vandals. Close Circuit Television and surveillance cameras should be mounted in areas with public assets. Prompt signals from the cameras should be matched with urgent actions to frustrate devastation to public facilities causing wastage of public funds, stunting the country’s growth, and resulting in intense hardship for the people. Citizens should know that while good roads, better transport systems and modern police stations are the rights of citizens, it is also their responsibility to protect and preserve public property. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com