Hallmark Health Service Limited (a subsidiary of Consolidated Hallmark Insurance Plc) has partnered with the Lagos University Teaching Hospital for voluntary donation of blood by employees of the organisation. A statement titled ‘Hallmark HMO partners LUTH for blood donation’ issued on Saturday, the company said this was to commemorate this year’s World Blood donation day. The exercise which held in Lagos on Friday witnessed a massive participation by the employees of the group, who turned out in support of the call to help beef up the blood bank of the leading tertiary healthcare provider, to improve access by needy patients. The health officials conducted the screening of volunteers for safety, while also ensuring adherence to COVID-19 safety guidelines, the statement said. The Group Managing Director, Consolidated Hallmark Insurance Plc, Mr Eddie Efekoha, said, “Blood donation is a life-saving decision and the need to continue to sensitise ourselves on its significance cannot be overemphasised. “We all are aware of how readily available blood helps to save lives during critical moments. So, it is a gesture that must be embraced by all who are fit to do so.” The Managing Director, Hallmark HMO, Mrs Dotun Adeogun, stated that as part of its corporate social responsibility, the company deemed it necessary to partner with LUTH during the World Blood Donation Day to help create awareness on the need for availability of blood in blood banks and the safety of donated blood through proper screening. With the vision to improve unfettered access to knowledge as well as quality and affordable health services, Hallmark HMO had continued to leverage the use of technology to deliver top-notch health maintenance services to its growing clientele nationwide, the statement said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com