Governor of Oyo State, Seyi Makinde, on Saturday, joined June 12 protesters in the state. The governor was seen in a viral video at the new Bodija axis with a megaphone and sparse security details addressing the protesters, who kept on hailing him. The crowd chanted “let him go” as they made way for his vehicle. The Governor, in his address, commended the protesters for their peaceful conduct and reminded them that they have the right to hold the government accountable when things are not done the way they should. The protesters, who gathered early in the morning at Mokola Roundabout, proceeded to other areas of the city. While the protesters remained peaceful, there was a heavy presence of armed security operatives on major roads in the state. Commending the Governor for coming out to stand with the people of Oyo state, tweeps credited the governor for bringing a fresh breath to governance. Sodiq Tade wrote, “I like to remember that Seyi Makinde has restored people’s confidence in government. People are moving around protesting in Ibadan without any fear of intimidation or police harassment. Peaceful protests will strengthen our democracy, and we must protect it. #June12thProtest.” @purpolush also commended the governor for his style while referring to his conduct during the ENDSARS protests. “If you notice since Seyi Makinde has been elected as Oyo state governor, his own leadership style has been different. If you can remember, he didn’t declare curfew during EndSARS protest and was able to caution against excessive violence, unlike Lagos. I just admire his leadership style,” he tweeted. Omolola Afolabi suggested that “@seyiamakinde ought to author a book on leadership and good governance as he seems to set the standard for what a good administrator should be in a country where they are as rare as a rhino’s tooth.” Azeez Ayo Mathew also wrote, “@seyiamakinde is not only the governor of Ibadan but the governor of Oyo State and we as Oyo State indigene are proud of the People’s governor. Governance is really not difficult. Other government officials should learn from @seyiamakinde #keepiton.”