Civil rights advocacy group, Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria, on Tuesday, urged the Federal Government to stop “pampering” bandits and terrorists in the country. The group was reacting to the reported re-arrest and re-arraignment of the leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu. National Coordinator of HURIWA, Emmanuel Onwubiko, and the group’s Media Affairs Director, Zainab Yusuf, made this known in a statement titled, ‘If You Can Successfully Arrest Nnamdi Kanu, Then Arrest The Terrorists Killing Nigerians In North East And North West – HURIWA’. The PUNCH had earlier reported that the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN, announced the arrest of the IPOB leader on Tuesday afternoon. Malami said Kanu was arrested on Sunday but did not give details of where and how the fleeing IPOB leader was captured. The AGF accused Kanu of instigating violence in the South-East geopolitical zone using various social media platforms. Kanu was subsequently brought before Justice Binta Nyako of the Federal High Court in Abuja on Tuesday where the judge ordered an accelerated hearing in the matter. Before he jumped bail in 2017, Kanu was facing 11 charges including terrorism, treasonable felony, managing an unlawful society, publication of defamatory matter, illegal possession of firearms and improper importation of goods. The case has been scheduled for July 26 and July 27 2021 for resumption of trial while Kanu has been remanded with the Department of State Services. Reacting, HURIWA said, “If the Nigerian government under Muhammadu Buhari can go as far as arresting the fugitive head of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra whose group has consistently denied embracing armed struggle to achieve self-determination, it is expected that President Muhammadu Buhari should focus also on arresting the real terrorists of ISWAP/Boko Haram terrorists responsible for over 32,000 deaths of innocent citizens and the destruction of North-East of Nigeria. “The Federal Government should stop pampering armed Fulani terrorists and kidnappers who are waging war against innocent school children of Northern Nigeria.”