The Ogun State Government has announced that the forthcoming 2021 Investment Summit will focus on infrastructure, power, transportation, agriculture and education, among others, to maximise economic potential and broaden the state’s capital base. The Ogun State Commissioner for Budget and Planning and Chairman of the Technical Working Committee of the summit, Mr Olaoluwa Olabimtan, disclosed this at the second pre-investment roadshow, geared towards a successful hosting of the summit, with the theme ‘Ogun becoming Africa’s model for industrial and logistic hub’. Olabimtan said in a statement that the state government was committed to making Ogun the fastest-growing economy in Nigeria. He said the roadshow was a way of inviting and sensitising prospective investors as well as members of the public on the expectations and opportunities the summit would offer. He said, “The key economic goals of this administration for the summit are based on increased investments in the real sector, job creation, food security, poverty eradication, in order to let the world know that it was time for action and full-scale business opportunities in the state. “Other policy thrusts are housing, governance, agricultural and industrialisation policies, among others, with a feasible public-private partnership arrangement to facilitate proper structure for businesses and engagement.” The Commissioner for Industry, Trade and Investment, Mrs Kikelomo Longe, said the summit would provide opportunities for networking between local and foreign investors. She said the government had designed six economic development clusters in strategic areas in Abeokuta, Remo, Ijebu, Atan-Agbara-Ota, Magboro and Imeko-Afon/Ayetoro, to deliver large-scale legacy infrastructure projects. According to Longe, the state has enormous land for primary agriculture and agro-processing. She called on investors to key into cassava and rice cultivation processing, agro-forestry restoration reserves, poultry, dairy and meat processing. The Director-General, Office of the Public Private Partnership, Mr Dapo Oduwole, encouraged investors to see opportunities in establishing independent power and gas transmission sites in strategic locations, while emphasising the opportunities available in establishing new estates and cities, malls and shopping centres, as well as recreational facilities in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com