Managing Director, Afriland Properties Plc, Mrs Uzo Oshogwe, has said that the newly opened Heirs Towers on Ajose Adeogun, Victoria Island, Lagos, is testament to the firm’s commitment to excellence and quality service delivery. She said this in a statement, after the launch of the seven-storey ultra-modern office complex by the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu; and Chairman, Heirs Holdings Group, Mr Tony Elumelu. Oshogwe said that Afriland Properties project-managed the building from concept and design to final delivery. She said, “This building is a hallmark of our capacity for turning challenges and complex projects into commercial successes. We understand how our services affect client’s dreams and aspirations and leave no stone unturned to ensure that we deliver on their expectations. “We were involved in bringing this building to life from design to final delivery and as you can see, the quality of work put in is truly exceptional.” Sanwo-Olu lauded Elumelu and Afriland Properties for the effort expended in bringing the idea of the iconic building to fruition, the statement said. Afriland Properties Plc, a property management, investment, and development company, offers end-to-end services in real estate, from management to joint-venture investments. The company renovated the former Raymond House, now Afriland Towers, transforming it into a premium real estate asset on Broad Street, Marina Lagos. Oshogwe highlighted Afriland’s core values as the distinguishing factors in the organisation’s operations. “As an investee company of Heirs Holdings group, we are driven by our core values: execution, enterprise and excellence. “These ensure that we remain unrelenting in our pursuit to attain industry excellence. This edifice reiterates the fact that we are masters in our craft. The fact that it has been fully occupied speaks to the quality of our work,” she said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com