The wife of a businessman, Monica Mnyim, is still in distress following the disappearance of her husband, Simon, two years ago. She said her husband came home to Benue State to celebrate their son’s birthday and was returning to Kaduna where he was based, when he suddenly disappeared. Monica said her husband passed the night in Abuja before continuing his journey the following morning, adding that the car he boarded broke down on the Abuja-Kaduna Expressway and that nothing had been heard from him since then. She stated, “We went to the park together and I took his photograph at the park. On May 26, 2019, he left Makurdi for Abuja to sleep over and proceed to Kaduna the next day. He was there for business for over six months. He came for our son’s one year birthday and spent a week with us. On the 27th of May, 2019 around 11am, he called me when he was at the park that he was headed for Kaduna. Around 1.43pm, he called me again saying that the vehicle he boarded stopped on the way. “He said the vehicle had a bad battery and they were stopping other vehicles, but no one stopped to help them. He told me that the vehicle stopped along the Abuja-Kaduna Expressway and he didn’t know the exact location. So, after a few minutes, I decided to call back to find out if they had found help, his phone never connected till date.” Monica said she hired a private tracker, who said Simeon boarded the bus at Karu. She stated, “The private tracker we hired said he was at the Karu park around 11am. But the park management said vehicles were no longer loading to Kaduna from there. However, unregistered vehicles outside the park operate ‘one-chance’ there. “The case was reported at the Asokoro Police Station in Abuja. I don’t think it is a case of abduction. If it is, we would have been contacted for ransom. ” The spokesperson for the Federal Capital Territory Police Command, Mariam Yusuf, did not take her calls or respond to messages sent to her on the matter. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com