THE Vice-President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo (SAN); President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan; National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; and Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, were among those who attended the public presentation of a photo book on the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila. Top government officials at the event also hailed Gbajabiamila’s Special Assistant on Visual Communications/Personal Photographer, Ayo Adeagbo, who authored the book titled ‘Gbajabiamila: The long road’. Osinbajo described the Speaker as a bridge-builder and one of the most resilient, resourceful and successful Nigerian politicians. The Vice-President, while inaugurating the book on Friday, said Gbajabiamila’s bridge-building cut across tribes, religions, political parties and generations, noting the successes the Speaker had recorded as a politician. This is according to a statement issued on Sunday by the Special Adviser to the Speaker on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, titled ‘Gbajabiamila, a bridge-builder, among most resilient, resourceful Nigerian politicians –Osinbajo…as VP unveils photo book on Speaker’. While congratulating Mr Adeagbo for the book, a collection of the photographs of the Speaker’s political journey, Osinbajo said, “Ayo has proved to be a creative and faithful storyteller of the political journey of the charismatic and photogenic Speaker.” Lawan, in his remarks, said the book truly presented the Speaker’s long political journey, which he said could as well be rough. While Tinubu was represented by a former Deputy Governor of Lagos State, Femi Pedro, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu described the book as a creative one, which he said “tells a lot about the Speaker.” The SGF, Mustapha, said the Speaker’s political journey had been a long one. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com