Ikeja Electric Plc has educated the pupils of Agidingbi Primary School in Lagos on how to handle electrical and electronic devices. The company also donated learning materials to the school, saying it organised the training session as part of its Corporate Social Responsibilities to celebrate this year’s Children’s Day. The pupils were exposed to the dangers related to the use of electrical and electronic appliances and were advised on what to do at critical moments. They were also handed learning materials and refreshments at the end of the program. The Chief Financial Officer, Ikeja Electric, Bunmi Olukoju, while addressing journalists, said the company, in line with its belief in education, wanted to support the kids and celebrate with them. She said, “We came here as part of our CSR and to celebrate with the pupils of the school on Children’s Day. We do our best in giving back to our communities as they enable the daily running of our organisation as customers. The children need a strong foundation to make them the society’s enablers as they grow older. “Ikeja Electric wants the children to understand the value of education, which as we know is immeasurable. We are here in support of the pupils, the school, and to educate them about our functions at Ikeja Electric, and we hope some of them learn and grow with the interest to work for the company.” The Head Teacher of the school, Ehirim Edith, appreciated the company’s efforts. “On behalf of the head teacher of Agidingbi Primary School, the staff, pupils, parents and the school-based management committee, I thank Ikeja Electric for putting smiles on the faces of the pupils through this programme and we pray that their business continues to run smoothly and successfully,” Edith said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com