The death of a 60-year-old patient, Joy Milton, at the Edo Specialist Hospital in Benin has caused a clash between the family of the deceased and the hospital management. Speaking for the family on Sunday, a Benin-based legal practitioner, Anderson Asemota, accused the doctors on duty of taking the oxygen of her mother, Milton, on Saturday after an unsuccessful operation. He said, “I lost my mother yesterday (Saturday) to the negligence and outright wickedness of doctors, nurses and admin staff of the Edo Specialist Hospital. A doctor removed the oxygen from my dying mother over an argument on payment. I paid for two dialysis procedures which were not carried out. “The doctors resorted to extortion, giving different prescriptions, which were not given to my mother. I had paid all my mother’s bills but the hospital officials came up with a bill of N82,000 despite the fact that I had paid N90,000. “When I was to take my mother to another hospital, they shut the gate, rolled my mother outside the hospital and removed the oxygen with the same doctor saying, “If she wan die, make she die, na our money dey important.” “When I reminded the doctor that it would be a clear case of murder, if my mother died, he answered, ‘Forget that thing; in Nigeria, everybody is a fool.’ “My mother later died at Celltec Hospital, Oluku, on Saturday. She had incision from where she bled and died despite the effort of the doctors at Celltec. I have briefed my lawyers and Edo Specialist Hospital will hear from my family,” he said. Reacting, on behalf of the hospital, one Dr Peter Evbuomwan said he was informed around 8.50pm on Saturday by the nurse that a patient was supposed to be referred to another hospital, but the doctors left because the said patient’s relatives physically assaulted one of the doctors on duty. He said on getting to the Accident and Emergency ward, he overheard a relative of the deceased talking on the telephone phone, saying the machine didn’t work because of the negligence of the medical staff and he corrected the statement that such was not the case. “The said relative then rained curses on me after which an exchange of words ensued. He attempted to physically assault me, but was held back by his brothers and some of the security staff on duty. “At this point, one of the doctors attending to the deceased stepped in and started writing the referral note while letting me know what had happened previously. “The relative said I don’t know who he was and threatened that he would call many people to deal with me.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com