Six Nigerians made the Forbes Africa 30 Under 30 list for 2021 Africa Young Innovators and Risk-Takers in a pandemic Year. Apart from the six Nigerians, one Ghanaian, 13 South African, two Ugandans, two Kenyans, and one Namibian also made the list. Others are two innovators from Zimbabwe, one each from Malawi, Zambia and Cape Verde. Those who made the list in Nigeria are Ifan Ifeanyi Michael – Creative artist & filmmaker;  Timilehin Bello – CEO and Founder of Media Panache;  Temidayo Oniosun – Founder of Space in Africa; Amarachi Nwosu – self-taught visual artist, storyteller, and CEO of Melanin Unscripted; Divine Ikubor (also known as Rema) – Musician, and Wale Lawal – Founder and Editor-In-Chief of The Republic. Speaking on making the list, Timilehin said, “Here today, Forbes today. I’m very honoured to have been listed on the 2021 Forbes 30 Under 30 Africa list. It’s a big win not just for me but for the amazing team at Media Panache. “It’s been a turbulent year for businesses and startups especially in Africa but through it all, we have trudged on with passion and grit. And this award has proved that although it was hard, it was worth it.” Now in its 7th edition, the Forbes Under 30 List, published annually, seeks to honour trailblazing Africans under the age of 30 who are innovative entrepreneurs, tech geeks, sports stars and influential creatives leading a pandemic hit Africa. SEE FULL LIST: The Forbes Africa 30 Under 30 list for 2021 Cleo Johnson, South Africa, founder and director of NUECLEO Timilehin Bello, Nigeria, CEO and founder of Media Panache Lebohang Moeletsi Phadi, South Africa, CEO of Basadi Logistics Sepenica Darko, Ghana, founder of FarmerTribe Company Deborah Mutwemwa, Zambia – South Africa, founder and CEO Tsumbo Scott Incorporated Bontle Tshole, South Africa, CEO and founder of BAAA Health Brian Kakembo, Uganda, founder, and CEO of Weye Clean Energy Co. Ltd Hertzy Kabeya, DRC – South Africa, founder and CEO of The Student Hub Temidayo Oniosun, Nigeria, founder of Space in Africa Felix Byaruhanga, Uganda, founder of Skyline media and Management LTD Harrykrishna Niadassen Poonoosamy Padiachy, Mauritius, founder of NKH Energy Shakemore Timburwa, Zimbabwe, founder of Energy Plus Mihlali Ndamase, South Africa, creative and digital influencer Amarachi Nwosu, Nigerian self-taught visual artist, storyteller, and CEO of Melanin Unscripted Divine Ikubor (also known as Rema), Nigeria, musician Reinhard Mahalie, Namibia, fashion stylist and founder of RM Fashion Styling Tendai Kevin Zhou, Zimbabwe, founder of VP Hostings Kabelo Motha (also known as Kabza De Small), South Africa, producer and DJ Kgaogelo Moagi (also known as Master KG), South Africa, music artist and producer Ifan Ifeanyi Michael, Nigeria, Creative artist and filmmaker Li-Chi Pan, South Africa, art director and digital influencer; founder of Li Chi Pan Studios Hayze Engola, Malawi, musician, creative, and founder of KNQR Investments Wale Lawal, Nigeria, founder and editor-in-chief of The Republic Tilka Paljk, Zambia, swimmer Lukhanyo Am, South Africa, rugby player James Kang’aru MwangI, Kenya, founder and CEO of Epitome School of Chess Julio “Beast” Bianchi, South Africa, e-gamer, FIFA Player Cheslin Kolbe, South Africa, rugby player Thabo Moloi, South Africa, e-gamer, FIFA Player Antonio Depina, Cape Verde, founder, Overseas Basketball Connection, Praia League