The Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria on Wednesday suspended the strike it embarked on since April 6, 2021 to demand financial autonomy of the judiciary. The union said workers would go back to their offices on Monday. This was disclosed in a communique issued by the union after its emergency National Executive Council meeting on Wednesday. The communique was signed by the Deputy President, Emmanuel Abioye; and the General Secretary, Isaiah Adetola. “NEC-in-session discussed extensively and after putting so many issues into consideration, such as the intervention of NJC and other stakeholders, the NEC has resolved that the strike is hereby suspended,” it read. In the communique, the leadership of JUSUN commended the efforts of the National Judicial Council in making sure that the governors obey the Memorandum of Agreement, and the judgment on the financial autonomy of the judiciary. The union also commended the Chief Justice of Nigeria and the heads of courts for their patience and understanding throughout the period of the strike. It, however, expressed its displeasure with the governors of Kaduna (Nasir El-Rufai), Plateau (Simon Lalong), and Benue (Samuel Ortom), for withholding the salaries of judiciary workers in their respective states. “NEC-in-session condemns the actions of the governors of Kaduna, Plateau and Benue States for withholding salaries of judiciary in their various states for months and urge all governors involved to do the needful,” the communique read. It added, “NEC-in-session plead with the NJC, the Presidential Implementation Committee, Attorney General of the Federation, Accountant General of the Federation and all stakeholders to see that the issue of Judiciary Financial Autonomy is laid to rest as provided for in Section 81(3), 121(3) and 162(9) of the 1999 Constitution as amended.” The union also condemned the deduction of the salary of the members of JUSUN in Bayelsa and requested that the deducted should be restored. It also reiterated that no member of the union should be victimized on account of the strike action. Meanwhile, the Governor of  Rivers State,  Nyesom Wike, on Wednesday  commended JUSUN for ending the strike, but said the workers would not be paid for the first week of June. He directed the Accountant General of the State not to pay judiciary workers “for the first week of June in which the no-work-no-pay policy is in force.” Recall that the government had warned JUSUN that it would enforce the no-work no-pay policy if it failed to call off the strike by May 31. The governor in a statement by his Special Assistant on Media, Kelvin Ebirim, added that Rivers government would not set up any budget implementation committee because it was unknown to law. “Rivers State government is in full support of financial autonomy of the judiciary and have been implementing same. We have stated it before that we are not going to set up any budget monitoring committee in the tate because it is unnecessary,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com