Mbong Amata, Nigerian actress, beauty queen, and former wife of Jeta Amata, has announced that she is alive and healthy as she made a re-appearance on social media on Monday. Earlier this month, Jeta, via his Instagram account, raised the alarm that his ex-wife had gone missing. He said the last time she was present on social media was in January. In another video released on Jeta’s Instagram page, the only child the union produced, Veno, further mentioned that she had not heard from her mother in a long while. To clear the air, Mbong took to her Instagram page on Monday to release a video, stating that she is hale and hearty. The actress noted that she took a break from social media. She said, “People who are close to me and those who matter to me the most understand how I use my social media. They understand that I do take my periodic breaks from time to time and I have been on a social media detox since January. “It just so happens that this time around, it happened a bit longer than normal, which is okay. I am perfectly fine and there is nothing wrong with me. I am just ‘social media’ detoxing. I have heard so many disturbing reports about me missing, or something happening to me. Please, take it from me; I am well, alive, and healthy.” Mbong used the opportunity to thank everyone who reached out to her during the period and re-assured all those who were scared or worried about her, saying “I am fine; I was just off social media.” The beauty queen further hinted that she is surprised by the actions of her ex-husband who accused her of being a ‘part-time’ mother to their daughter. She said, “People who know me close enough know that I share a daughter with my ex-husband and it has been quite a ride. My daughter would be 13 in August; She is a huge part of my life. I love her dearly and nobody can love my daughter more than I possibly can. She is everything to me. “Unfortunately, we are faced with this custody issue that has been lingering for so long. Right now, my ex-husband is going on a rant, wondering what is wrong with me; acting like he does not know what happened or what inspired. He fought with me to a standstill as regards my daughter and it got really bad. It’s rather unfortunate that we are here.”
Mbong further stated that her ex-husband denied her access to her daughter and insisted that she be a part-time mom by just communicating with her daughter over the phone. She continued, “I have always made one thing clear to him; he knows how much of a hands-on mother I am. I will not discredit myself and reduce my role as a mom to just speaking to my daughter on the phone. I had been very clear and said to him that if he will not let me full access to my daughter physically, I have no part of what is going on. “I don’t want to be a mother who is hanging on the fence. He tries to make me want to be a mum who is hanging on the fence and make me speak to my daughter when it is convenient for him but I said to him, ‘no’.”
According to Mbong, the only time she has physical contact with her daughter is when it is convenient for her ex-husband. “I want to be a part of my daughter’s life; teach her the things I know. Go through life and do fun things with her. I want to have a proper relationship with my daughter but he denied me access. I do not know why he chose this route,” Mbong said.