Youths on Saturday protested in Ibadan, Oyo State over the growing insecurity and poverty in Nigeria. The protesters, who gathered at the popular Mokola roundabout in Ibadan for the June 12 rally, also held placards demanding an end to bad governance. Police, army, and the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps were present at the protest ground. Among the inscriptions on the placards are ‘End impunity in Nigeria’, ‘No to fuel price hike’, and ‘We are tired of the killings, insecurity, terrorism, and poverty in the country. The PUNCH reports that protests and rallies are also ongoing in Lagos, Ondo, Osun, Rivers, and Abuja. Meanwhile, the Police Command in Oyo State on Saturday reassured residents to go about their lawful businesses, in spite of the threat of a nationwide protest to mark June 12, Nigeria’s Democracy Day. The command spokesperson, DSP Adewale Osifeso, said that adequate security had been provided by the police and sister agencies to ensure citizens’ protection. Osifeso, however, denied the claims of bonfire allegedly noticed around Moniya -Ojoo Road, saying everywhere was cool and calm. He said that the command had deployed enough patrol teams, currently patrolling every nook and cranny of the state. “The patrol will be a continuous one because we understand what today means to Nigeria.
“We will leave no stone unturned to ensure there is peace,” he told NAN. It was gathered that residents of Egbeda, Alakia, Adegbayi, Ogungbade, Oluwo, Badeku, Fashade, Ayegun and Awaye, remained in their houses about 8:00 a.m., while major markets remained shut. Also, at about 9:00 a.m, some filling stations have not yet opened for the day’s business at Mokola area, though, some traders were seen displaying their wares. At the Monatan-Iwo Road axis, and Ojoo area, a handful of traders opened their shops, with a light movement of people and vehicles. Also, at about 9:00 a.m., the Ring Road – Challenge axis witnessed a light movement of vehicles, with most shops still closed. A number of filling stations in the area had, however, opened for business, just as personnel of the Amotekun security outfit were seen at the Challenge Roundabout and car park area. Security personnel, particularly soldiers and police officers, were observed patrolling some major flashpoints, like the Iwo Road roundabout and the Ibadan–Ife tollgate.