Once upon a time in ancient Egypt, a king called Pharaoh was head over heels in love with children of Israel who sojourned to his land from afar. Pharaoh was lovey-dovey fascinated with the children of Israel because one of them, a young man sold to slavery by his brothers, brought values to his royalty and rulership. Famine was unfurling in Egypt, and none saw it coming. What the natural eyes of Pharaoh and his acolytes couldn’t see, young Joe in shackles and confinement saw by divine revelation. Young Joe was later rewarded with an elevation. He became a powerful ruler second only to Pharaoh, the most powerful being in town. The young man strategised with the king and became a solution to his confusion. His family joined him in the new and refreshing life of Egypt. Egypt thrived under Joe. The children of Israel lived well. As bad times in life always come and go, good times in life may also not last forever. One day, God sent the Grim Reaper on a visitation to loving Pharaoh. He was taken away in his sleep. The law of the land did not allow a stranger to become a king. So, Joe was not qualified to succeed his demised boss. Another Pharaoh, mean and menacing, ascended the throne and threw the nation into chaos. Children of Israel who had once enjoyed the opulence of Egypt, and who had been positioned in seats of power and authority became despised and hated people. The new Pharaoh felt threatened by the prosperity of these visitors. He coerced them into making bricks without straws. They were tortured. They were afflicted. And the people groaned under Brobdingnagian brutishness of the new Pharaoh.  The brutal reign and callous actions of Pharaoh, however, opened the eyes of the children of Israel. They then understood that life was better somewhere else and with a new mindset. Sometimes, we need a Pharaoh to goad us into our promised land. Without a Pharaoh, there may be no pursuit for freedom. A few of the recent developments in Nigeria can be likened to the happenings in Pharaoh’s ancient Egypt. Pharaoh’s actions and behaviours brought the children of Israel together for self-determination. The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.)’s action and inaction on rampages of bandits, cold-blooded killing of innocent citizens, and the treacherous environment that has been created since he became President have now brought people from the Middle Belt, South-West, South-East and South-South together. Before now, it was a whisper of kvetches. But today, and if not for Buhari, people are now speaking up and out because they are tired of being enslaved in their own land. There is a consensus among many groups to keep their communities safe and free since Buhari’s Federal Government is unable to lift a finger. In 2015 and 2019, Nigerians did not elect a king. They trooped to the polls to elect a democratic president with hearts of expectations for bountiful dividends. Democracy ought to usher in prosperity and tranquility. But today in Buhari’s democracy, more egregious errors are committed. Nigeria is burning and the President isn’t saying a word in person. That’s how monarchs behave. They know they are in power until they die and then their children succeed them. But Nigeria is not a monarchy. It is a democracy where everybody’s voice matters.  Nigeria has become a burden to Nigerians, and that is why groups are springing up desiring to leave the contraption and embrace their own Republics. According to a report published recently by the Chandler Good Governance Index, Nigeria has been ranked the third-worst governed country in the world. Some of the reasons for the poor ranking are not far-fetched. In Leadership and Foresight, Nigeria scored 0.24, a reflection of how the country has been torn in ethnic crises and clashes while the government is unable to proffer a solution that would unite its over 200 million population. Security is worsening, and our President keeps giving empty promises that the end has come to banditry. Senate President Ahmed Lawan once said the nation’s central security architecture has failed flat. Many Nigerians are shocked that security is worsening under a President with a sumptuous military pedigree. A bony, bold venturous, and venturesome retired Army General. A former platoon leader. A former regional governor. A former military head of state, now Commander-in-Chief in civilian garb over an expanse of land called Nigeria that measures 923,768 km. Buhari is in charge of active-duty personnel in three armed services, totalling approximately 200,000 troops and 300,000 paramilitary personnel with military equipment of small arms, artillery, missiles and recoilless rifles, armoured vehicles, and air defence. Yet, security has failed. Terrorists are now kings. They capture territories and bury their flags therein as a token of their conquest. Our service chiefs are braggarts with padded resumes and curriculum vitaes. They now seem servile, recumbent, confused, directionless, and retreating for the firepower of invincible and indomitable hoodlums who dwell in cacodemonic and fiendish forests from where they launch assaults on innocent women and children. If anybody predicted in 2015 that Nigerian security apparatchiks under Buhari would be as clueless and incognisant about how to stop terrorists’ rampages and escapades of violent men in their tracks, who would have believed? But here we are; terrorists are victors; Nigerians are the vanquished. Nigerians who believe Buhari is Nigeria’s Pharaoh aren’t loonies. It is because their Commander-In-Chief seems insensitive to the plight of dying Nigerians. The foolishness of government has created flourishing platforms for all manner of activists. The Igbo in the East now listen to Nnamdi Kanu. A few days ago, Kanu gave an order to his people to sit tight and down tools. The whole of the region stood in attention. The Igbo in the East listen to the young man because the people are tired of being shoved to the back of the bus.  In the South-West, Sunday Igboho is an arrowhead with humongous following. His tongue may be unbridled, and his manners crude, but there is an upsurge in die-hard throng behind this young man some people brand as unlettered.  Last time I observed an unpaid mammoth crowd such as the one behind Igboho was when Obafemi Awolowo was alive. Igboho is talking; he is engineering; he is mobilising, and the people are responding. Igboho called for rallies against the oppression of the majority by the minority, his people, the Yoruba, stood still in obedience. This fellow is making sense to the majority of his people, and our President is busy tweeting threats to Nigerians who are sick and tired of being killed cheaply by bandits from foreign lands. If anyone thinks what’s going on in Nigeria is comedy, tell them this is tragedy. The wheels of nationhood are surreally and speedily spinning out of control. I was among those who were craftily coaxed by the progressives in the South-West that Buhari was Nigeria’s ‘Messiah’. They too probably were deceived by something or somebody. Buhari who should be the father of the nation has abandoned his children and cuddled a few favourites because they look and speak like him. These are very sad times for me personally because I never thought a time like this would come. But it has. Nigerians, like the enslaved children of Israel, always have a way of shovelling through when their backs are against the wall. They will figure this out. Twitter: @Folaojotweet Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com