John Alechenu analyses the efforts being made by the Governor Mai Mala Buni -led All Progressives Congress to rebuild the party approximately one year after the crisis that led to the hurried dissolution of the Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee The crisis which characterised the Adams Oshiomhole-led National Working Committee of the All Progressives Congress came to a head on June 25, 2020, when the party’s second highest decision-making body, the National Executive Council, at a meeting presided over by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari(retd.), sacked the party’s NWC. Oshiomhole and his team had just spent two out of their four-year term when an existential crisis hit the party over the control of its structure. A series of litigation which led to Oshiomhole’s suspension via a court order followed. As if that was not enough, several members of the NWC began to lay claim to the chairmanship seat. Sensing the danger his continued posture of non-interference could pose for the survival of the party, Buhari acceded to a request by the then factional National Chairman of the APC, Victor Giadom, to convene a NEC meeting where the decision to sack Oshiomhole was finalised. In his address during the NEC meeting, Buhari said, “The issues currently confronting our party at this time are such that should worry every party member. At the moment, our great party is faced with internal wrangling; there are on-going litigations among some party members and we cannot clearly ascertain the status of certain National Working Committee members.’’ He alluded to the question of legitimacy which at the time dogged the party leadership as a result of conflicting court judgements. The president took a hard look at the situation and concluded among other things that, “what we see clearly emerging, is that we are beginning to self-destruct. This, my dear party members, is not just regrettable but utterly gut-wrenching.’’ Buhari, as leader of the party, went on to announce the dissolution of the NWC and in its place announced the formation of a 13-member Caretaker/ National Convention Planning Committee led by Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State. The committee was given an initial six months within which to reconcile aggrieved party members and organise a national convention to elect substantive members of the NWC to run the party’s affairs. While accepting the task, Buni spoke about his plans for the party. He had said, “As a former two-time national secretary of the party, I know the party very well. It’s all about doing justice to every member of the party because without justice, there won’t be peace and it is all about team play. I am a team player; I have a capable team that can work with me.” The team set to work with visits to the party’s founding fathers, Chief Bisi Akande, who was APC’s pioneer and Interim National Chairman, and the party’s National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. However, as the first six months drew to a close, Buni and his team realised that the task before them required more than six months to accomplish. The Acting National Secretary of the APC, Senator John Akpanudoedehe, told Sunday PUNCH, “Before we came on board, we didn’t envisage the enormity of the task before us. Several state chapters were dealing with internal crises, so we needed to reconcile aggrieved members. “We also realised that we needed to update our membership register so that we will have an authentic record of our members.” He explained that from the President’s directive, it was clear that the task of reconciliation was uppermost in his mind and in the mind of most party leaders. Akpanudoedehe further said, “Under the leadership of Governor Buni, we were able to resolve life-threatening crises in our state chapters like Zamfara, Rivers, Bayelsa and Cross River, among others.” After securing the approval for another six-month extension of its tenure, the Buni-panel went ahead with the registration exercise which got off to a rocky start in some states like Imo, Kwara and Zamfara. At the end of the exercise, the party claimed it now has over 40 million registered members, a sharp increase from the 16 million it claimed it had before the 2019 general elections. However, a directive given by NEC for all aggrieved party members to withdraw pending litigation from court, to allow the party’s internal conflict resolution mechanisms has not resonated with all party members who still feel strongly that they have a case. One of the claimants of the position of acting APC National Chairman, Hilliard Eta, who went to court to challenge the NEC decision dissolving the NWC, has remained in court and has vowed to see the case through to the end. Although the party leadership announced his expulsion, he told Sunday PUNCH, “An illegal pronouncement from an illegal body remains a nullity. That contraption which came together in the name of NEC did not have the legal backing to even sit let alone take the kind of decision it took. “Members of the Adams Oshiomhole-led NWC which I was proudly a member of were duly elected for a four-year term, we were barely two years in office when these persons came up with what they did. I have confidence in the judicial process, we want the court to decide, that is why we are in court.” Despite his misgivings about the legitimacy of the Buni-led panel, the panel has continued to pursue its reconciliation agenda and has succeeded in attracting some of the aggrieved party members who for one reason or another dumped the party to pursue their political aspirations on other platforms especially those who left for the opposition Peoples Democratic Party. Some of them include: Former Speakers of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, and Dimeji Bankole, as well as a former National Chairman of the PDP, Senators Barnabas Gemade, and Senator Elisha Abbo, among others. As part of its reconciliatory efforts, the committee also resuscitated the party’s internal dispute resolution mechanisms by setting up reconciliation committees for Oyo, Edo, Ondo, Imo, Ogun, Ekiti among other state chapters with reported disputes. It is also to the credit of the committee that in the run up to the Ondo State governorship elections, it was able to broker peace among aspirants after disputes arose before and during the party governorship primary in the state In the end, most, if not all of the aspirants lined behind the eventual winner, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, SAN, who went on to win the governorship election. Although Buni’s leadership will go down in history as having lost Edo State and its governor, Godwin Obaseki, it made up for the loss with its ability to poach two serving governors from the opposition PDP. Under its watch, the Ebonyi State Governor, Dave Umahi, and his Cross River State counterpart, Prof. Ben Ayade, dumped the PDP to join the APC. And as Akpanudoedehe quipped, “The movement of these two is a signal that more are on their way into the progressive family.” While the party has since set up several other committees to handle various tasks such as mobilisation and constitution review, there are still suspicions that some members of the committee are moving behind the scenes to seek a ‘third term’ in office. A spokesperson for Concerned APC Members, a pressure group within the party, Abdullahi Dauda, belongs to this school of thought. He said, “While one cannot deny the fact that the committee has achieved something especially by attracting two sitting governors into the APC, we cannot ignore the fact that the committee is only consolidating the power of some state governors ahead of the 2023 elections. “If we may ask, why has the committee not released a timetable for congresses and the national convention? They carried out a registration exercise which was not part of their initial mandate, they have finished. Why have they not released a timetable for those interested in party offices to begin campaigning and prepare for elections? “If you look at the sub-committees they have been setting up, they all have sitting state governors as chairmen, are they saying the rest of our party members don’t matter? We can only give a sound judgment on the success or otherwise of the Buni committee after the national convention.” Responding to criticisms about his committee’s seeming obsession with reconciliation, Buni said, “The APC must not go into a national convention, and indeed a general election in crisis. “We should take it one step at a time and ensure that the ongoing national reconciliation process being undertaken by the committee is sustained, successful and continues to yield results.” The pioneer and Interim National Chairman of the party, Akande, had cautioned the Buni-led committee against falling for the temptation of the African “sit-tight syndrome,” by seeking another extension of its tenure. In his intervention, an Enugu State Chieftain of the party, Osita Okechukwu, believes that the Buni-led panel deserved to be given the benefit of the doubt. Okechukwu, who is the Director-General of the Voice of Nigeria, said, “It takes an insider who understands the level of damage done to our party as a brand by the leadership style of Adams Oshiomhole to fully appreciate what the current party leadership under Governor Buni is doing. “Now, party members can speak up without fear of being harassed, more and more members of the party are being given a sense of belonging with the responsibility of doing one or two things to advance the course of the party. I believe that the party leadership can organise congresses for us to have our national convention between now and early July.” It remains to be seen whether Buni and his team can beat the race against time to hold a national convention before the expiration of its current mandate which expires on June 25th. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com