The South West Zonal chapter of the Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria on Monday dissociated itself from the planned nationwide strike directed by national leadership of the association. The IPMAN had directed the commencement of strike over an alleged invasion of its national secretariat by security operatives last week. The South West leadership of IPMAN was reacting to a statement credited to IPMAN’s National Public Relations Officer, Yakubu Suleiman, directing members of IPMAN to embark on strike nationwide. The IPMAN chairman in the zone, Alhaji Tajudeen Lamidi, said this while speaking with journalists in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. He directed members to ensure hitch-free business activities at all the depots in the region. Tajudeen also directed that all petroleum filling stations across the zone were to ensure uninterrupted dispensing of the products to prospective customers so as to guarantee a hitch-free of supply and distribution of petroleum products across the region. He said the position of the association to shun the directive of its national leadership was premised on the ground of serious reasoning which he said could result in a devastating effects on the economy of the country as a whole. Lamidi explained that IPMAN leadership in the South West zone was not unaware of the economic hardship which Nigerians, particularly residents of the zone, were currently going through and as such, would not want to further compound the situation by aligning with the directive. The IPMAN zonal chairman said the South-West zone would not be a party to inflicting a fresh hardship on the people of the zone by shutting down the petroleum distribution and dispensing channels. He said, “All depots and petrol stations are directed to go about their normal business and ensure free flow and a hitch-free supply and distribution of petroleum products across every nooks and crannies of South-West. “While we support the Federal Government and NNPC/ PPMC to achieve their objectives of products supplies, we will continue to do our businesses legitimately without fear or favour. Also, a faction of the national body on Monday said it was not shutting down filling stations and dismissed claims of imminent strike by oil marketers. IPMAN’s President, Sanusi Fari, urged motorists and other fuel users not to engage in panic buying of petroleum products following threats by a faction of the association that marketers would embark on strike. A member of a faction of the association, Yakubu Suleiman, had threatened that IPMAN would shut down filling stations nationwide beginning from Tuesday (today) in protest against the siege by the police on IPMAN’s secretariat. He alleged that the police failed to provide reasons for laying siege on the association’s secretariat, adding that based on this, IPMAN members at states, zones and depots resolved to down tool. But while reacting to this in a statement issued in Abuja on Monday, the IPMAN president declared that the association was open for business and that no single filling station would be shut. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com