Despite the general low interest in voluntary blood donation, there are Nigerians who have chosen to be committed blood donors – some for as long as 25 years. ANGELA ONWUZOO spoke with some of them about their passion to save lives through regular voluntary blood donation. Beaming with smiles, Mr. Benjamin Aghoro says he is still committed to voluntary blood donation, even after having donated his blood to save lives 102 times. Agbhoro started this rare humanitarian service of voluntary blood donation in 1996 and has already donated his blood to save many people not known to him. According to the Nigerian Red Cross Society, Lagos State Branch, Aghoro, a security consultant, who is already in his 60s, is the highest voluntary blood donor in Lagos State. Aghoro, since 2005, has been bagged several awards and received many certificates for regular and consistent voluntary blood donation. The latest was the Donor Achievement Award presented to him during the 2021 World Blood Donor Day for his 100th blood donation, by the Lagos State Blood Transmission Committee. According to the Lagos State Blood Transfusion Committee, the award was in recognition and appreciation of his immense support in ensuring safe blood in Lagos State. Aghoro, a member of the Nigerian Red Cross, said he enjoys what he does, noting that he is happy to contribute to the safe pool of blood for safe blood transfusion in the community. Feeling great after blood donation While many Nigerians distance themselves from voluntary blood donation for cultural and religious reasons, Aghoro says he feels great that he is among those whose blood is useful to the recipients or end-users. The Delta State indigene, during the week, shared with PUNCH HealthWise his burning passion for voluntary blood donation. “I started donating blood in 1996 and so far, I have donated 102 pints. The passion is to save lives; you can’t give what you don’t have. My membership in the Red Cross has also made my passion for blood donation better. “Whenever I donate blood voluntarily, I have a feeling of self-fulfilment, knowing that I have helped to save the lives of people I don’t even know and may never meet in my lifetime. “Every time I donate blood, I am happy because I do it voluntarily, without expecting any form of recompense, and thereby also discouraging patronage of commercial blood donors, whose blood is regarded as high risk because of their risky social behaviours; and whose blood forms about 80 per cent of the total blood volumes in the hospital before now, according to medical records. “I feel cool, refreshed, younger and energetic each time I donate blood. The feelings may not be described enough by words, unless one gets involved. As it’s often said, he who feels it knows it,” he said. The sexagenarian recalled some critical moments in which his blood saved dying patients. He narrated, “As a blood donor, there have been so many times that I have saved lives. But I will want to cite the case of a lady who underwent an operation for fibroid in one of the hospitals in Lagos State and needed blood along the line. “When I was told, I had to go there and donate upon appeal by the father who approached the Red Cross office for assistance in view of our humanitarian services. She needed three pints. I had to also mobilise two other blood donors for the exercise. “But, you know what? The lady’s father never came back to us to say ‘thank you’ – though it is not anticipated or expected. “Still, I have played my role and played it well. It’s the Almighty God that can reward me for my altruistic gestures and service to humanity.” Regular blood donation reduces the risk of blood pressure Aghoro says beyond saving lives, he has found out that regular blood donation has lots of health benefits for the donor as well. “It enhances good health and well-being, as the blood cells are reproduced in the bone marrow after blood donation. You end up having fresh blood as a replacement every time you donate. “When you donate blood regularly, it can also help to reduce blood pressure and reduce the possibility of haemorrhagic stroke because you regulate your blood volume and strengthen your blood vessels. “Regular blood donation equally removes excess iron from the blood for those who are prone to this blood-related problem. You are also able to know your blood group, genotype and blood status and you also have unhindered access to blood for transfusion in times of dire need, and your family members too,” Aghoro, also a pre-hospital emergency first aid responder, said. Mr. Augustine Umude, 59, is another voluntary blood donor who has remained unwavering in donating blood to save lives. To continue reading this story, go to https://healthwise.com/ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com