The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has promised the leadership of the Ijaw National Congress that he would inaugurate the board of the Niger Delta Development Commission as soon as he receives and accepts the commission’s forensic audit. The President said this on Thursday while receiving the National Executive of INC led by Prof. Benjamin Okaba. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu disclosed this in a statement titled, ‘Nigeria’s unity: President Buhari commends Ijaw leaders, pledges action on environmental degradation.’ The President pledged that the board would be inaugurated as soon as the forensic audit report was submitted and accepted. He said, ‘‘A contentious issue that has been a subject of discourse among the Ijaw people of recent has been the need for the Niger Delta Development Commission to live up to its billing by delivering the required succour to the people of the region. ‘‘Based on the mismanagement that had previously bedevilled the NDDC, a forensic audit was set up and the result is expected by the end of July, 2021. ‘‘I want to assure you that as soon as the forensic audit report is submitted and accepted, the NDDC board will be inaugurated. ‘‘However, I would like to implore you that the Ijaw National Congress should play a more active role in making sure that the mismanagement that occurred in the past is not repeated.” On the creation of two additional states and more local government areas for the Ijaw people, the President said it is a legislative matter, which should naturally be handled by the National Assembly with concurrence at the state levels. He said the National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency, under the ministry of Environment, was working to ensure that oil spills are reduced and new ones prevented. Buhari also assured the leadership of INC that the completion of the East-West Road remains top on his infrastructure agenda. In his remarks, Okaba urged the President to mandate the Ministry of Petroleum Resources to direct the relocation of the headquarters of all oil companies to their operational bases in Ijaw land and the Niger Delta region. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com