The Minister of Works and Housing, Babatunde Raji Fashola, has called on estate surveyors and valuers to explore digital technology innovation to promote professionalism and unlock infrastructure deficit towards achieving development in the country. He made the call during the 44th induction ceremony for newly registered estate surveyors and valuers by Estate Surveyors and Valuers Registration Board of Nigeria in Abuja on Thursday, according to a statement. Fashola, who was represented by the Minister of State Works Housing, Abubakar Aliyu, urged the inductees to use their potential through technology revolution to unlock the infrastructure deficit confronting the nation. He said, “As newly inducted estate surveyors and valuers, I implore you to explore other technology innovations in enhancing professionalism and good service delivery in your day-to-day task. “I want to also use this opportunity to challenge you not to rest on your little achievements but to continue to thrive towards loftier goals by making Nigeria a better place for economic growth and development.” The minister said the ministry was in the process of implementing the International Public Sector Accounting Standard across all federal secretariats in the country. “The Federal Ministry of Works and Housing is desirous with the implementation of International Public Sector Accounting Standard by carrying out valuation exercise in all federal secretariats across the country to achieve internalisation and management of decision-making,” he said. The Chairman, Estate Surveyors and Valuers Registration Board of Nigeria, Gersh Henshaw, urged the inductees to be of good conduct and character in their dealings tasking them to adhere to professional standards in their day-to-day activities. “You have some solemn oath and allegiance to make today, and it is apposite to remind you that the Investigating Panel and the Disciplinary Tribunal of the board are in place to check excesses, compliance with the declarations as well as ensuring overall professional discipline of all practitioners. “After all these certificates and encomiums, if you cannot build a good character, it will be difficult for you to go far. So, be guided.” He advised Nigerians interested in land matters in any part of the country to go through registered and qualified estate surveyors and valuers. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com