The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board has faulted the Lagos State Government over the fines it imposed on schools who were indicted for examination malpractices. Speaking at the JAMB office, Ikoyi, Lagos, on Wednesday, the JAMB Registrar, Prof. Isa’aq Oloyede, said the defaulting schools should have been deregistered. Recall that the state penalised 46 private schools over examination malpractices in the 2020 West African Senior Secondary School Examinations, some of which were fined N500,000 each. Oloyede said, “If I were Lagos, I will just deregister the schools and move the students elsewhere. Many of them are destroying the system and I want the government to make their names public. Imposing fines on them is not enough, the fine should even be given to charity homes.” However, the Lagos State Commissioner for Information, Gbenga Omotoso, said the sanctions meted out to the defaulting schools were the recommendation of the disciplinary committee set-up to investigate the matter. He said, “The Impression that JAMB registrar has is not the full picture, apart from the fines these people are asked to pay, they have also lost their recognition for two years, which means they cannot present students for WASSCE for two years. “The Office of Education Quality Assurance, Ministry of Education, will have to go back there to check if their schools, teachers and environment have met the conditions that WAEC has put in place. It is after these, they will have to re-appear at WAEC to be able to present students for WASSCE.” However, Oloyede said he visited the Ikoyi office of JAMB to monitor the registration of applicants who complained that they were denied opportunity to register for the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination. He revealed that contrary to claims that 600,000 candidates had been unable to register, only 17,758 candidates showed up at JAMB offices across the country to register. He added, “We have 1.4 million candidates who are the genuine candidates that have registered. From my interaction here with both applicants and students, we discovered some are sending wrong messages to the specified codes.” He urged state governments to regulate tutorial centres, saying they contributed to the challenges of applicants through their dubious acts. He said, “Private tutorial centres hold the system to ransom; if you go to every street, you will see dilapidated building used as tutorial centres, the tutorial centre owners are dropouts, they give students fake questions and take advantage of them. Some of them now bypass NIN and put in adulterated data.” Oloyede also complained about overzealous parents who put their children under pressure to take UTME, adding that they were emotionally and physically immature to go through the rigour of higher education. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com