The United States and the United Kingdom have warned their citizens in the country to avoid the June 12, 2021 protests which will take place on Saturday (today) in several parts of the country. The two countries said this in advisories to their citizens on Friday The US Mission in Nigeria’s advisories was titled, ‘Demonstration Alert: US Mission Nigeria (June 11, 2021) – Nationwide Protests on Democracy Day’. It said it is likely that the protests would take place at the Unity Fountain, Abuja; and Lekki tollgate plaza and Gani Fawehinmi Park in Lagos. The embassy advised American citizens to keep a low profile and avoid the areas where the protests will hold. The advisory read in part, “Several groups have announced their intentions to protest nationwide on June 12, Democracy Day.  Police presence and response can be expected nationwide, including in Abuja where government events are scheduled to celebrate the national holiday and in Lagos where simultaneous protests are planned. “The likely locations for the protests in Abuja will be at Unity Fountain (Hilton Hotel area), Wuse, Berger Roundabout, Aguiyi Ironsi Way, Airport Road, and British Circle.  In Lagos, the likely locations for protests will be Lekki Toll Gate and Gani Fawehinmi Park.  Calls for the protests suggest they may begin as early as 7am. “Actions to Take: Avoid the areas of the demonstrations. Exercise caution if unexpectedly in the vicinity of large gatherings or protests. Monitor local media for updates. Keep a low profile.” The United Kingdom also warned its citizens of a possible outbreak of violence in Nigeria as the country celebrates its Democracy Day on Saturday. The advisory read, “On 12 June, protests over insecurity are planned in multiple locations, including large cities. “You should remain vigilant, avoid demonstrations, protests or large gatherings and pay attention to local media and social media reports on protest locations.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com