The President of the Nigerian Institute of Building, Kunle Awobodu, has called for reflection and appropriate action to be taken in addressing the challenges of standard construction in Nigeria. Awobodu made the call during a lecture organised by the College of Environmental Sciences, Bells University, Ota, where a book, titled ‘Issues and practices in Nigeria’s built environment’ was unveiled. He highlighted the issue of land inaccessibility and the bureaucratic registration process as some of the challenges hindering standard construction and called for a drastic reduction in such occurrences. He said, “Nigeria is among the worst globally when it comes to registering property, according to the World Bank’s Doing Business 2013 report, which ranks it 182nd out of 185 countries. “The registration process can last as long as six months to two years, taking an average of 12 procedures, and costing about 20.8 per cent of the value of the property.” According to him, the process of obtaining a Certificate of Occupancy and the consent provisions of the Land Use Act makes a transaction in land tedious, time-consuming and expensive. “Oftentimes, a developer’s application would pass from office to office over several weeks and by the time the necessary approval is obtained, he may have lost his source of funding or incurred huge interest on loan obtained for development,” he said. Awobodu, who lauded the land reforms, however said a drastic reduction was still needed to improve property registration. He said, “It is worthy to note that part of the reduction in time can be attributed to improvements in property registration, which has been implemented in Abuja and Lagos. “Other state governments will do well to replicate the improvements achieved in the Abuja Geographic Information System and Lagos State in their various states. Investors are generally comfortable in environments where registration is automated and procedures are minimal.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com