Huawei has said it is dedicated to promoting digital transformation and reducing the digital gap in all industries in Nigeria. The Enterprise Managing Director, Huawei Technologies Company Nigeria Limited, Michael Zhuang, was quoted in a statement as saying this at the 2021 Nigeria International Petroleum Summit in Abuja on Monday. He said, “Huawei has been operating in Nigeria since 1999. In Nigeria, we have partnered with both international and local oil companies in upstream, middle stream and downstream to promote oil and gas digital transformation and we remain committed to continuously provide our support and innovation. “Huawei’s oil and gas solutions have been applied in 45 countries and regions around the world, serving 70 per cent of global top 20 oil and gas companies. We have incorporation to build more than 46,000 kilometres of digital pipelines globally.” The company said its data-to-barrel drive would speed up oil search and improve oil search accuracy, increase production and reduce costs, and monitor oil depot data to reduce oil stealing and oil leakage. It said it planned to improve oil production in Nigeria by about five per cent, adding, “Nigeria can achieve an increase in revenue of $200m in a year.” Huawei said it would promote national oilfield data supervision, curb vandalism and oil leakage for oil pipelines by providing innovative solutions that could monitor illegal operations in oil depot, thereby significantly reducing oil tampering. It said it also planned to reduce costs and increase efficiency; promote HSE by reducing accidents for a safer and more secure oilfield; reduce operations and maintenance each year to 15 million in total. The company said it planned to “achieve visualisation, monitoring and security management of pipeline and full process of oil depot; improve E&P processing speed from the average hour level to the minute level; improve E&P processing accuracy, that is, E&P data processing error rate will be reduced from an average of 10 per cent to 2 per cent; and help E&P companies to find oil more accurately and faster to realise data to barrel.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com