The Federal Government has, in the last six years, failed to meet up with the benchmark proposed by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation on the percentage of national budget to be allocated to the education sector, The PUNCH reports. Although the last six years are under the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), investigation revealed that previous administrations did not perform better. Recall that UNESCO had in the Education For All Report for 2000 to 2015 tagged, ‘The Dakar Framework for Action,’ called for significant increase in financial commitment by national governments and donors to the education sector to accelerate progress towards the EFA goals. On benchmark for funding, the organisation said, “The high level group on EFA proposed that governments should spend between four per cent and six per cent of GNP on education and that within government budget, between 15 per cent and 20 per cent should be earmarked for education.” Our correspondent’s investigation showed that Nigeria did not allocate up to 15 percent of its annual budget to education in the last six years, just like those of the previous years. In 2016, the first budget prepared by Buhari’s regime after taking over from former President Goodluck Jonathan in May 2015, the Federal Government allocated N369.6bn which amounted to 6.7 per cent of the national budget of N6.06tn to education, while in 2017, N550.5bn; 7.38 percent of the N7.29tn budget was allocated to the sector. In 2018, N605.8bn, out of N9.12tn budget, representing 7.04 per cent was allocated to education; in 2019, it was N 620.5bn, representing 7.05 per cent of the N 8.92tn budget. In 2020, N671.07bn of N10.33tn which amounted to 6.7 per cent was allocated to the sector; while in 2021 the sector got N742.5bn of N13.6tn budget, representing 5.6 per cent. When contacted on Wednesday, the Director of Press, Ministry of Education, Ben Goong, told The PUNCH that UNESCO could not recommend same benchmark for all countries since they are at various levels of national development. He said, “UNESCO does not give Nigeria money. I tell you how to run your home. “But then, different countries are at different levels of national development. If a country has developed its education sector to a reasonable extent and you have another country still struggling, you cannot expect these two countries to input the same percentage.” Goong added that the present regime had been giving special attention to education sector. “When you go to our tertiary institutions, you will see buildings with TETfund written on them. This is not about percentage of budget or not. The government has the sector at heart,” he added. But the Chairman, Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics, Dr Anderson Ezeibe, insisted that the government’s refusal to follow the minimum standard laid down by UNESCO for developing economies hasdnegatively impacted the sector. He said, “The budget for education since 2016 and even in the years before 2016 has repeatedly fallen short of the UNESCO minimum standard for developing economies. “Our union’s strike, like the strike of other unions in the sector, has always been hinged on poor funding and the need for the government to commit more funds to education.” But Goong again faulted the position of the ASUP chairman, saying the union and the Academic Union of Universities are simply taking on responsibilities that are not theirs. He said, “Here, the government has made them (ASUU and ASUP) feel like they are the lions. In the private sector, by the time you start to tell your employers that you need maybe an 85 inches television and may be executive chair, you will be sacked. “This administration through TETfund has invested 1.7tn in tertiary institutions alone.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com