THE member representing Obudu/Bekwarra/Obanliku Federal Constituency, Mr Legor Idagbo, and 30, 000 of his supporters have followed the footsteps of the state Governor, Ben Ayande, to dump the Peoples Democratic Party for the All Progressives Congress. Ayade on May 20, 2021, defected from the PDP to the APC. Idagbo, who announced his defection at an event in Abuochiche, headquarters of Bekwarra Local Government Area, on Saturday, said he was leaving the PDP for the APC with over 30,000 of his supporters from across the three councils that make up his constituency. He said, “Today marks the beginning of a new era in Cross River State politics. Old things have passed away and behold, new things are on the way. “The old era has passed away, the only thing that is constant is change. It is only a wicked father that will not wish his son well. “If you are a good father, at some point your son will take over from you and when he takes over from you, you will not direct him on what to do.” The lawmaker was received by the chairman of the state chapter of the APC, Senator Mathew Mbu Jr., who enjoined the new party members to remain committed to the party and what it stood for. He said, “Do not let anyone push you into fighting our governor and anyone who persuades you to, tell them to lead by example.” Also, at the Ikom Local Government Council headquarters, a chieftain of the PDP, Chief Chris Agara, also claimed to have moved with his over 25,000 supporters to the APC. He explained that his defection to the APC “is like wearing a new dress. And when you have a new dress well sewn with a design you like, you feel good. And moving from PDP to APC is indeed very special and historic and we have to show that firm support to my friend and brother.” Agara was received by a chieftain of the party and former Senate Majority Leader, Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com