As part of its commitment to the United Nations Sustainability Development Goals, Tetra Pak has donated solar-powered boreholes and stainless-steel milk collection containers to dairy producing communities. The leading food processing and packaging company said in statement on Monday that the donations would empower the dairy farmers with access to clean water and aid in the transportation of their fresh milk to collection centres. Tetra Pak’s Managing Director West Africa, Oshiokamele Aruna, said that as the demand for dairy products kept rising across the world, there was an urgent need to focus on sustainable dairy development especially in Africa, as guided by the UN SDGs. He was quoted as saying, “Statistics show that with a population now above 200 million, and an annual dairy consumption approaching 1.6 billion litres, only 16 per cent of the milk consumed in Nigeria is produced locally. This means Nigeria spends an average of $1.5bn a year importing dairy products. “While several factors are affecting the dairy value chain in Nigeria, Tetra Pak identified the top two challenges surrounding these unpleasant statistics as being the farming communities’ lack of clean water sources for the cattle, and the unhygienic and unsafe transportation of fresh milk from the farms into the commercial milk production value chain. “We will continue to work towards the government’s goal of producing 50,000 metric tonnes of milk locally within the next 12 months and the actualisation of a self-sustaining dairy ecosystem in Nigeria.” Aruna added, “The boreholes being solar-powered means that these communities will have access to clean water 24/7 with no negative impact to the environment. They no longer have to rely on compromised water sources nearby that can spread disease in their communities. “Their leaders say the installation has boosted their production and eased some of their challenges.” He added that the Dairy Hub model would ensure a consistent supply of milk produced by the communities, eliminate wastage and create a sustainable source of income for the dairy farmers. He said the company was committed to the sustainability agenda in Nigeria through initiatives including its recycling programme targeting zero waste to landfills, its school recycling programme educating students on recycling importance, and the current local dairy initiative. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com