THREE persons, including an eight month pregnant woman, have been killed by gunmen in Plateau State. It was gathered that two other persons were also injured during the attack which occurred in Zargwra community, Miango district in the Bassa Local Government Area of the state. It was further learnt that the victims were relaxing in their compound when the gunmen suddenly emerged from the bush and attacked them on Sunday night. The spokesman for the Miango Youths Development Association, Mr Nuhu Bitrus, confirmed the killings in a statement on Monday titled, ‘Miango community shrieks as three were killed and two injured’. The statement read in part, “Another terror bedevilled Zagwra community of Miango District of Bassa LGA at the late hours of 8:20pm 27/6/2021 at the residence of Mr. Bitrus Gado, where Rifkatu Friday, aged 25yrs (34-week pregnant), Ladi Friday (7yrs), Minchwe Gado (86yrs) were killed while Lami Bitrus and Friday Bitrus sustained gunshots injuries and are currently receiving treatment at ENOS Hospital, Miango.” He alleged that those who survived the attacks said that they saw a known Fulani gunman named Hashimu Hudu, aka Terry G, who they accused of being the leader of the attackers. Bitrus, who condemned the killings lamented that Miango community had lost many of its people through similar attacks in the past and wondered why such killings had continued despite numerous peace meetings with the Fulani herdsmen and security operatives. Meanwhile, the Plateau State Police Command has confirmed the killing of three persons in Miango Community by gunmen. Spokesman for the state Police Command, Ubah Ogaba, confirmed the killings to The PUNCH in Jos on Monday. Ogaba said, “On 27/06/2021, the Command received information of an attack at Zanwra village in Miango district of Bassa LGA by yet to be identified gunmen. “Unfortunately, the hoodlums shot dead three persons. An investigation is ongoing as detectives of the Command are on the trail of some suspects mentioned by eyewitnesses.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com