The new President and Chairman of the Governing Council, Chartered Institute of Personnel Management, Mr Olusegun Mojeed, has said  the institute will contribute its quota to the effort to review the labour law. He said this while disclosing his vision for the institute during a press briefing in Lagos. Mojeed stated, “CIPM is the foremost people management and organisation development institution, not only in Nigeria, Africa but across the globe. We have the law of the land to back us up. We are not just relying on that law; we are also engaging the various sectors “The Minister of Labour has just allowed us to be part of the review of the labour law, along with the National Consultative of Employers Association, National Labour Congress and government. This is because we are directly managing the people who make up the industry through creativity and disruptive innovation.” There was the need to grow capacity among people intentionally, he said. He added, “Without doubt, people are any organisation’s greatest and most valuable assets. They are the only assets that appreciate in value. Let us pay attention to human capital development in whichever field we find ourselves. “It is time for us to pay attention to developing our people, as a people, an institute and a nation. “We need to grow our people intentionally. That is why there should be this handshake between the private sector and the public sector.” He said he had the vision is to take the institute to the next level ever using five pillars tagged ‘MIDAS’. He said, “Mentoring and grooming the next generation of leadership; Inclusiveness and intergenerational connectedness; Delivering exceptional service to all stakeholders; and accreditation of certificates and scaling up of capacity and competence.” Mojeed said it was the civil service that provided an enabling environment, infrastructure and his organisation was already engaging with relevant stakeholders. He added, “One of the core crux of this administration is a serious engagement with our civil service, we started with Lagos State years back. “We are looking at the way we can help as an institute. If we arrogantly ignore the civil service and allow it to collapse, then the private sector would not be able to make progress. “We started with Lagos State years ago, now we are with the Head of Service of the Federation and we are doing great work there. This administration will continue that great work started by my predecessors” He stated that there was a need for re-skilling to be relevant for the new jobs that were appearing. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com