Abel Ugiagbe and his wife, Avuwa Marian, whose wedding was expected to take place at the Federal Marriage Registry in Benin, Edo State, on May 28, 2021, but failed to hold and whose ordeal went viral after a television report, speaks to ADEYINKA ADEDIPE on the experience Can you explain what happened at the registry on the day you were supposed to have your wedding? Abel: The unexpected event happened on May 28. We were supposed to have our wedding at the Ministry of Interior’s Federal Marriage Registry in Benin. We had high hopes for that day but when we got there in the morning, we met the security guard, who told us that the Registrar, Ozuruonye Chukuma, wasn’t around and that there was no wedding scheduled for that day. I was shocked because we had registered at the registry a month ago. How could this happen and nobody informed us? I became very angry coupled with the fact that I had my in-laws, friends and other people I respect at the venue; so, it was a big blow for my wife and I. It was a disgrace, I couldn’t take it and I was very angry. At that point, I didn’t know what to do and my wife was crying. We also tried to get someone from that office to act on behalf of the Registrar, but no one could stand in for him. I felt this wasn’t right so I decided to take this ordeal to the public domain; so, we decided to call the television station that did the initial report. I wanted people to know that this type of thing happened in this country. At what point that day did you realise that the wedding wasn’t going to happen? Marian: I was actually hopeful that thing would be sorted out and the ceremony would go ahead. Despite all that was going on, I was told to calm down and I tried to. But I was crying; I sat somewhere and was waiting. But when the television crew arrived, I heard that there was nobody to conduct the marriage. It was confirmed that the Registrar wasn’t around so, the television crew took the story to the public. How did you feel when it dawned on you that the wedding would not hold that day? Marian: We were very disappointed, because we were actually looking forward to that day with joy, knowing that we were going to get married, only for us to get there and face that unpalatable experience. My dad and my brother-in-law, who got to the registry before us, called to inform us that no wedding was slated for the day and we rushed down there from the hotel. I was wondering if what we were just told was really happening. The disappointment spoilt our mood for that day and we were angry that all the efforts put in went down the drain. Did the disappointment dampen your desire to see the wedding through and be together for life? Abel: No, not at all. The truth is that at the initial stage, I was a bit disorganised, but I tried not to expose my woman to all the drama that was playing out. I think the television crew were like mini gods. After they did their report, we became composed knowing that someone had listened to our plight. We still took pictures and love was still in the air despite the disappointment. I was also successful in stopping my wife from crying and we both looked at the better side of things. We still did everything we planned to do despite not having the wedding on that day. However, the reception was cancelled. Were you able to reach the Registrar on the phone? Abel: Yes we did. When I was getting too angry, one of the workers gave me the Registrar’s number and advised that I call him. When I called him, he took his call and I told him that I was supposed to get married to my wife on that day, but he told me that there was no marriage slated for that day and hung up. I called him up a couple of times, he didn’t take his call and the phone was eventually switched off. That triggered my annoyance and that was when I decided to call the television crew, because it was clear to me that I was in a big mess. What level of preparation and planning went into the wedding and can you quantify the loss in monetary terms? Marian: Firstly, there was a lot of pressure in putting the wedding together. We had to get hotel accommodation, pay for cakes, pay the makeup person, pay for the hall and many other things. It was really taxing putting the wedding together and to experience what we did on a special day was difficult to take. Abel: I wouldn’t want to place monetary value on what we did for the wedding, but I will say that a whole lot was put into it. A day before the wedding, the initial hotel we booked more than three weeks before told us that they were unable to process our payment, which we did through an agency. It was really disappointing as we had to look for another hotel a few hours before the wedding, after which I brought in my wife and others who were supposed to be with us. I actually wanted us to go from the house after the disappointment from the first hotel, but people said it wasn’t proper and that this was a special that deserved the best arrangement. After all the stress, it was sad to realise that the wedding would not be held on the appointed day. How did your guests feel about this situation? Abel: My father-in-law was someone I respect so much and seeing him sad on that day made me annoyed. Like I said, he was the first to get to the registry and when we joined him there, I could see he was very sad. I needed to act to let them know this was not planned and I wasn’t just going to fold my arms and do nothing. Some of my friends, who came from outside Benin, were really supportive and they threatened to bring down the place due to anger. But when the television crew came, we calmed down. Initially, we wanted to do something that the staff of the place would never forget, but eventually, we controlled our anger well and left the premises of the registry. Did you feel relieved when you heard the Registrar was eventually suspended? Marian: Our intention was not to get the man suspended and we are not happy with the punishment he got. We didn’t know it would get that far. We just wanted people, especially those in authority, to know about our experience. He actually called us the next Wednesday to say we could come, but we couldn’t because we had to inform our witnesses and we fixed it for Thursday, June 3. When we got there, the way he spoke to us gave us a good impression about him and he was very nice. So, we are not happy to hear about his suspension. What did he say the problem was? Marian: He blamed the situation on communication lapses. He said they had informed others billed to wed at the registry of a change in date and that it was unfortunate that we were not informed. He said our names were omitted from the list of those to be informed about the change in date and that was why we were not contacted. He said others had their weddings on Tuesday and Wednesday of the same week. What will be your advice to the authorities so that disappointment like this will be avoided in the future? Abel: First of all, I will like to say that there is negligence in that office based on my interaction with the workers from when we went to register to the day of the botched wedding. When I went there to begin the registration, I wasn’t happy about the way the staff attended to me and how they conducted their programme. The place was not being run like a Federal Government agency and I expressed my misgivings to my wife. The day we went for counselling also supported the fact that the place isn’t well organised. We were told to get there by 9am, but the counselling did not start until the afternoon. About 40 couples were there and some had already left in annoyance before the counselling began. But around noon, one of the workers called me to the back of the building and told me that the Registrar travelled home to Imo State for the weekend and hadn’t come back. The worker said he was on his way to Benin and that we should be patient. I told the person that we could not continue to wait, because we had other things to do. So, a lady, who I believe is his deputy, took us through the counselling session, which to me was wishy-washy. If I had met the Registrar on the day of the counselling, I might not have been very mad when he didn’t show up on the wedding day, because when I finally met him on the new wedding day, he looked to me like a nice and calm person. My advice is that everyone, who has a job with the state or Federal Government, should take their job seriously. I am a graduate and I don’t even have a job. There are so many people who have connections to get these jobs, but unfortunately they personalise the office. We must act right in whatever position we find ourselves and I believe things will move on well. This is like an eye opener to everyone. Wherever you work, be serious with your job. If there is a need for you to be out, there should be somebody to act on your behalf, because members of the public will always come to your office for the services you render and when they don’t get it, it becomes a problem. In a public office, if you have to leave your duty post for any reason, there should be someone to deputise for you. What is the outcome of your last Friday’s meeting with the wife of the Edo State governor, Betsy Obaseki? Marian: When we got there, she was happy to receive us. She spoke to us like a mother and was concerned about what happened to us on our special day. She also decided on having a reception in our honour since we couldn’t achieve that on June 26. She also told us that God had a way of reaching out to people and this could be a way for Him to turn things around for us. What will you ask her to do for you at the reception? Abel: We were not expecting a reception. We had thought that the first lady wanted to compensate us for the disappointment. However, I must commend her for fixing a reception to honour us. But if we have the opportunity to ask for anything, I will want to ask for a job, because I am not working at the moment, while my wife is a teacher in a private school. I used to run an entertainment centre, but it went down due to COVID-19. A lot of people told us to take the case to court, but we are not interested in that. The Federal Government already has enough trouble. I had a car before now and I had to sell it to finance my wedding, so a car gift will not be out of place. However, I think they should do whatever is viable. Whatever comes from the reception, we will take it. So what do you foresee for this union? Marian: I see us living happily together and growing old with our kids. We plan to have four children. Abel: I love my wife and she also loves me; so, we are in this for the long haul. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com