The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has expressed his regime’s commitment to turn sports into a business, adding that the Sports Industry Policy will propel the sports industry into a major contributor to the nation’s economy. He also called on corporate organizations to invest in sports development. This was disclosed in a press statement titled ‘Pinnick’s position in FIFA Council beneficial for football development in Nigeria, says President Buhari’ issued by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina in Abuja on Friday. According to the statement, Buhari was in an audience with the President of Nigeria Football Federation, Amaju Pinnick, and the Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare in Abuja on Friday. Buhari congratulated Pinnick on his election victory into the FIFA Council and expressed optimism that the membership of the FIFA Council will lead to the advancement of football in Africa and Nigeria. “The position on the Council of the world’s football governing body, FIFA, comes at a time when Nigeria is determined to turn the fortunes of her sports development around through better infrastructure, more investment both public and private government incentives. “Without prejudice to the continental nature of your assignment at the Council, I urge you to use your position to ensure Nigeria’s sporting image receives a boost. ‘‘I know this position will assist Nigeria to get technical and financial support from FIFA, and your position should create a platform for other Nigerians to enter into the FIFA family and other international Sports Federations. “I want to see Nigeria’s football develop and move in a more dynamic trajectory from football administration to youth and grassroots football, talent hunt and use of Nigeria’s home-based talents. ‘‘Nigeria also needs a more privatized and better-organised football regime that can rival others in Europe and America,’’ he said. Buhari also urged the NFF to work with the Sports ministry and football stakeholders to provide Nigeria with a 10-year Football Master Plan that will ensure youth football development, in line with FIFA’s commitment. On his part, Pinnick commended Buhari’s support for football. “Without you, I couldn’t have won election into FIFA Council. Your name is highly respected across the continent,” he said. He also pledged to be a worthy ambassador of the country, adding that he will use the office to build Nigerian football with the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development. The Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, also thanked Buhari for his support towards sports development in Nigeria and for approving the reclassification of sports as a business, instead of mere recreation.