Chima Azubuike writes about the agonies of defiled minors in Gombe seeking a new lease of life Fourteen-year-old Aminat Sabo appeared worried that Wednesday when our correspondent met her. Her looks betrayed the glee she tried to feign. The soft-spoken Sabo is one of the defiled minors in Gombe State, who apart from awaiting justice, desired to pick up the pieces of their lives and move on. Speaking with Saturday PUNCH, the teenager said that her immediate desire after her defilement ordeal was to return to school. Sabo had completed primary school but awaiting secondary school registration stalled by paucity of funds. She added that life took a different twist after the incident. Sabo now lives with her octogenarian grandmother. She said, “On the day of the incident, I was on my way to the farm in search of firewood when I met a man on the way. He asked me where I was heading to and I told him that I wanted to get firewood. The people I was walking with were ahead of me so I decided to stop on my father’s farm nearby to pack firewood. I was on the farm packing firewood when the man came. I didn’t know that he followed me as I left him. He offered to help me but I told him not to bother. “But as I continued with what I was doing, he put his right leg on my way and I fell down. Immediately I fell, he grabbed me towards him and defiled me. I shouted for help. I guess the people I was earlier going with were returning, heard me and came to my aid. They saw me bleeding and they went after the man and apprehended him. He offered to give them money to free him but they refused. He is still in police custody and I was told that he would soon be arraigned in court. The experience was painful. There is no justice yet.’’ When our correspondent arrived at Sabo’s home in Dadin Kowa, Yalmatu Deba Local Government Area, the teenager was on the way to the market where she sells the fries she makes. She noted that her desire was to become a medical doctor, adding that quality education would mitigate her woes. Sambo added, “I just want the government to help me with my studies. I want to further my education. I have completed primary school but no money to proceed to secondary School. I wish to be a medical doctor; that is all I want.” Victims’ anguish Hajara Haruna, mother of four-year-old Simbi told our correspondent that her child was sexually molested in her absence while she went to a health facility in Gombe. She said, “I was not at home when the incident occurred. I went for a medical checkup in Gombe. My other children told me that they saw her walking in an unusual manner and I felt that something was wrong with her. I called her and I also noticed what they told me from the way she walked. I asked her what happened and she replied that there was nothing. She refused to talk and I carried her on my lap and she started crying. I laid her down and checked her underwear. I broke down in tears.’’ Haruna said her daughter later told her who defiled her, adding that he turned out to be a serial defiler. She stated, “I wanted to confront him but one of my sisters told me not to go alone. I decided to call my sister working with the Department of State Services in Abuja. My sister involved several security agencies and civil rights groups in the matter. The medical report indicated that she was defiled. “The perpetrator is 38 years old and he lured my daughter with groundnuts and biscuits. He defiled my daughter twice; on a Friday and Saturday. I was around that Friday but travelled and returned on Saturday. He threatened to kill my little daughter if as young as she is, she tells anyone.’ However, when our correspondent visited their home along Biu expressway in Dadin Kowa, Haruna carried little Simbi to a mat where she sat before our correspondent arrived. “I want the governor to ensure that cases of defilement are tackled in the state. The suspect is in prison awaiting trial. The doctor who attended to my daughter said the suspect had defiled some young girls before he targeted my daughter. In fact, he did it three times to some other children. The first one, I learnt he was asked to pay N18, 000, the second one, he  paid N12, 000 and got a fine of N12, 000 for the third one. They investigated him before they came to arrest him and he confessed that he defiled my daughter,” Haruna stated. The wife of the state governor, Asma’u Yahaya, who quoted a survey in 2019, noted that the state records over 728 cases of rape/defilement annually. It was gathered that the cases were not restricted to homes, shops or schools. Some were linked to ritual purposes. Another victim, 13-year-old Sadiatu Sibis stopped attending class after she was defiled by a traditional medicine seller. Sibis like many other survivors were taken advantage of by mature violators. She resides in the riverine part of Dadinkowa in Yalmatu Deba, precisely Garin Burkar. When our correspondent met her in company with her mother, Sibis appeared withdrawn from events around her. Sibis said, “I am 13 years old and in primary 4.  I went on an errand to buy medicine from a mallam selling medicine. I was in his store when he forcefully defiled me. He removed my pants and penetrated me. I have not been attending classes due to the pain but I hope to return soon. I need help to get over the pain and attain my dream.’’ Twenty-six-year-old Hajara Danjuma from the Kaltungo council area is an undergraduate. She said it took her many years to forgive the male gender after a nasty experience at the hands of an abuser. Danjuma, “I think I was about eight years old when I was defiled by an uncle. He came home late one night and found me asleep, at least that was what he thought. I was not sleeping that day. In actual fact, I was afraid because I didn’t want him to throw me out because I was afraid of him. He went into his room and came out holding something but I didn’t know what it was. He came to where I slept and dragged my skirt and I quickly turned. I did that because I wanted him to know that I was not asleep but he forcefully turned me back to the position he wanted. He defiled me aggressively and rubbed what I don’t know around my private parts. I became afraid of him after that night and avoided him but he only became more aggressive towards me so I didn’t tell anyone.” She stated that the experience affected her so much and her childhood suffered for it. She added, “The defilement affected me seriously. I didn’t have a normal childhood because of that I grew hatred towards men. I became hostile towards any man that jokingly calls me his wife. I remember slapping one of our customers’ boyfriends because he called me his wife. My mother beat me so hard but what she didn’t know is that I did it to protect myself. I want support for me to realise the dream which the incident aborted. Till today, my abuser has not been punished. I am sad anytime I remembered the incident.” Rodah James from Kaltungo in Gombe council area also narrated how she was sexually violated by a school prefect (head boy) of a secondary school she attended. She explained that the prefect was notorious for sexually abusing junior female pupils in the school. James said, “The head boy was feared by many. The day the incident happened, it was the turn of three other girls and I to sweep the class after school hours. The head boy came in with his friends and asked others to leave the class we were sweeping except me. When I noticed that he was coming towards me, I begged him not to touch me but he refused to listen. He threatened to kill me and was very violent. He had his way and I couldn’t tell anyone because of the threat. I am hoping to get help to gather the pieces of my life. I struggled to put the event behind me to get into a university. But I usually recall the past with pain. My innocence was take away forcefully and no justice has been served on the perpetrator.’’ The victims’ names were changed to protect their identities because of stigmatisation. Gombe rising rape/defilement cases The state police command in January 2021 said the state records three rape cases daily. Executive Director Wildan Care Foundation, Zariyatu Abubakar, said rape could occur to a male or female. She said, “Initially rape was thought to be just against women but now the concept of rape has gone beyond that because boys get raped, men get raped so either from a man, boys or from females also. The perpetrators can come from either way; a male or female but the concept of rape has metamorphosed beyond what we used to see. . In the past, one thinks that rape or defilement is just penetration through the private part, but now it can be through the anus, use of object etc. “We have unfortunately high incidents of rape in Gombe State and it’s really bad. In 2020 alone there were over 200 reported rape cases and these are just reported cases. There are several other unreported cases. So, it can be said that in a year, there are one thousand rape cases. However, they are not reported because the rape is either perpetrated within the family or within the school setting and there is a lot of cover up within the community where it involves influential people and there is a cover up. So there is a whole lot of mess going on in the state actually. And there are some cases that are being perpetrated in the remote areas and they are not also reported.’’ Abubakar stated that sometimes the delay in getting justice could make the victims keep mum. She added, “Sometimes the victims don’t get justice. So they felt what is the need of going through additional trauma by exposing themselves to societal scrutiny and derision? The first question people ask in a case of rape is where did you go? What were you wearing? As if it was the fault of the victim.  So, in other to run away from such situation, they cease to report abuses.’’ Solution to the menace Abubakar said to tackle the trend, parents and guardians should jointly train their children and warn them against sexually abusing anyone. She said, “They will understand that this thing requires a holistic approach towards ensuring that rape cases and other violations are curtailed within society.  And sometimes there are other conditions that make perpetrators engage in the act.  The influences of drugs and other things including peer pressure. For instance, boys among themselves may ask, “How many girlfriends do you have? It becomes something of a pride or if a boy is a virgin, he is considered an outcast. So, there comes the pressure of also wanting to belong. Such a person is likely to do what is not proper. Sometimes, it can be through a gang and they gang rape a lady because one of them asked her out and she refused.’’ Abubakar further said her organisation was not satisfied with the level of prosecution, adding that nearly zero prosecution was the situation involving rape suspects in the state. He noted, “Suspects are prosecuted for a short period and they come out and nothing happens. It is like just changing location for a month or two, and they return to society to continue perpetrating the act. Sometimes, when they are locked up, they just stay there at most a week and they are out again. The current law that is being used is still the penal code and I think the penal code has defined rape in a separate way. The penal code says rape is just penetration with the manhood. What about a woman that rapes a man? Does she have manhood? So what will they call that? What about a boy being raped? What about him that has been raped through the anus? He has also been violated and the trauma is still the same. So that means there is still a loophole. I don’t know why we keep dragging our feet trying to get the laws in place. The Child Rights Act has not been domesticated in Gombe State. “In fact, that is where the issue of domestication comes in place. When we say domestication that means one is going to look at the law, take the ones that apply to a state, peculiarities and examine the things that the state needs to add because of special circumstances. The Federal Government did not say that states should just take the act and make it a law. That is why there is the domestication process. It’s going through the stages. Like the Violence Against Persons Prohibition Act. It is a good law.’’ Community efforts at ending rape Dadinkowa community is located in Yalmatu Deba and famous for hydroelectric dams with more than half of the entire population involved in farming due to water availability in the area. A group in the community, Husband School, has been involved in sensitising and alerting young girls and their parents to the dangers of rape and defilement. Chairman of the group Saidu Aliyu, noted that some of the acts were caused by the desire to make money. Aliyu said, “We visit every grade and make necessary assessments with the villagers and sensitise them on rape for them to stop the act. We discovered that many of them visit herbalists who give them substances to use in raping girls or defiling minors. “The people don’t report to us but we intervene whenever we hear about such cases because of the power of Husband School. We used to have a meeting to enlighten our members. The members comprise 20 males and 20 females. They are all parents. We hold a meeting twice monthly. The venue is the palace of the community head, district head, village head or emir’s palace.’’ He noted that they informed the emir when the group was to be established and he urged them to do their best in stamping out the act in the area. Aliyu added, “The emir encouraged us to go anywhere in his emirate to sensitise people on the issue and to also teach people on how to control themselves. We were also encouraged by the district head. The only problem we have now is how to transport ourselves to other villages. We transported ourselves last year to a village where we advised a victim’s father who refused to treat his daughter. The incident stopped the girl from going to school. The father took our advice and the girl was taken to a hospital. She is now healthy and has returned to school. We decided to work in this area because we don’t have the means to pay for our transport to neighbouring villages.” Also, facilitator, Role Models club, Kande Adamu, stated that mobility to villages in the state constituted a major challenge. She said, “We were told of several cases of rape and mobility is really an issue to us. Reaching out to the villages is difficult because we have no means of transportation. We would like to create awareness in the villages and also want police support but that seems to be a challenge. We want the government to support us with transport so that we can create awareness and by doing so, I believe rape cases will be reduced.” On his part, community leader in Dadinkowa secretariat also known as ‘Mai anguwa,’ Bala Haruna, said that the traditional institution was committed to ending rape in the community. “We are really battling with the problem. We want the government to keep an eye on things and should also take action whenever we table our complaints. The government should end the problem. There are several diseases perpetrators are likely to have and they end up transmitting it to an innocent victim. We appeal to the government to ensure the prosecution of anyone found guilty of rape or defilement. We are not happy with what is happening, hence the call that those found guilty of the crime should be severely punished so that others can take a lesson from it,’’ Haruna said. Govt efforts to end the act The state Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Zubair Umar, said the government was prepared to tackle threat rape issue headlong. The commissioner noted how difficult it has been to bring perpetrators to book, following the current penal code. He said, “What we did, because there are NGOs canvassing the domestication of Violence Against Persons Prohibition Act and we took it and made some modifications. We have adopted some provisions and we made necessary changes and the bill is before the state House of Assembly. There are three bills of serious importance to criminal justice administration that are VAPP law, criminal administration law and the child rights protection law. All these are now before the assembly and from the insight available to me, they will be passed as soon as possible. The governor is ready and willing to assent to the bills. The issue of rape has been adequately captured in the VAPP law. “As it’s now, it is the penal code that is in force. Now that society has become more sophisticated, and rape is mind-blowing, if we say we will apply penal code, some of the rapist may go free because the trend now is that there are many means to committing rape which are not covered in the code.” Speaking about the development, a consultant psychiatrist at the Federal Teaching Hospital, Gombe, Dr Rotimi Oyedun, said that the major psychological effect of rape was post-traumatic stress disorder. According to Oyedun, governments at all levels must ensure immediate commencement of legal framework to protect the mental health of children. He said, “It is multisectoral; many of them will be down with mental disorders and some will not, talking about paedophilia. This is because a child cannot give consent. Society and culture contributed. There is what is called the Child Rights Act. Many states have yet to domesticate it. It’s supposed to protect the rights of the child but has yet to be domesticated. Child marriage seems normal for many people for them to get married to young people. “There are certain factors that can expose a child to molestation like a case I saw of a young girl taking care of an old man. He had access to the young girl. I remember that she started having cognitive, memory retainment and dementia. Because we don’t take care of our children, we expose them to certain risks. There are some things children need to be protected from by the law and society. If we don’t take care of them, we are just mortgaging their future. These children would develop different types of mental illnesses such as post-traumatic stress disorder, depression and anxiety. Now, because of their exposure to sex, when they become older, sex doesn’t seem to be a big deal to them. There are times they don’t know they are abused; they see it as being normal. So, there is a need to have a legal framework.” On his part, Dr. Timothy Daniel with Gombe State Specialist Hospital, who is a certified gender-based violence specialist, noted that rape has grievous consequences with lasting complications. Daniel said, “Rape has grievous consequences with immediate or long-term complications. For the immediate, the survivor may suffer pain because of the sexual assault, transmission of sexual transmitted diseases. You cannot rule out stigma but for an adolescent she may be blamed and they will come down with depression because they don’t want to expose themselves.’’ Stressing the need for society to curb rape cases, the physician added that there were times he saw about eight rape victims a weekly. “The person raped should not be blamed, usually the community would want to blame the victim. However, this may cause more victims to remain in silence. Some would say let’s keep quiet for the security of my family. Communities should talk about why there should be rape-free community. Nudity has no basis in rape because people who covered their faces have been raped, a day old girl has been raped, educated and uneducated have been raped. Immediately, after reporting to the authorities, it will be good to go to a hospital. “As a gender-based violence doctor, I do a weekly call covering this. Last month, when I did my call, I had eight victims, sometimes in a week or month no case. Boys too are sexually harassed so it cuts across the rich and the poor,” Daniel said. Police collaborate with judiciary for suspects’ arraignment However, the state Commissioner of Police, Ishola Babaita, told our correspondent that during the strike embarked upon by the judicial workers, the command made special arrangements to hear rape cases. He said, “We arrested some of them and they were sent to court. No doubt there are high cases. We liaised with the Chief Judge to give us a magistrate to try the cases, possibly move it to the Director of Public Prosecutions.” On whether the penal code helps in dealing with increasing rape cases in the state, Babaita added, “There is a penal code, in the absence of VAPP law. It takes care of prosecuting such cases too. That is beyond me and I cannot control the court.’’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com