FRESH concerns raised by the United States State Department on the deplorable state of religious freedom in Nigeria highlight yet another area where the country is failing to live up to global standards. Following the earlier release of the 2021 Annual Report of the United States Commission of International Religious Freedom that ranked Nigeria among the 14 Countries of Particular Interest where “religious freedom conditions remain poor,” the department has urged the government to do more to protect this basic right. The federal and state governments should do all in their power to safeguard this inalienable right which is visibly under assault across the country. Sadly, this is another wretched global rating for Nigeria. The report “upgraded” the country from the Watch List, to which it had been added in December, to the CPI club that features notorious human rights abusers like Iran, North Korea, Pakistan, Myanmar, Saudi Arabia, and Syria.  USCIRF, a bipartisan American agency, monitors the universal right to freedom of religion and its violations abroad, using international standards and makes recommendations to the government and Congress. Its annual report identifies and designates those engaging in or tolerating “systematic, ongoing, egregious violations of religious freedom” as the CPI. The country thus faces the prospects of punitive US sanctions if it does not take steps to improve. This tag is not surprising. The Nigerian state is, and has long been a serial violator of religious freedom. The report said, “Religious freedom conditions in Nigeria remain poor, with both state- and societally-perpetrated violations.” It cited the case of Mubarak Bala, adopted internationally as a Religious Prisoner of Conscience. An activist and atheist, he was arrested in Kaduna in April last year on the spurious allegation of making Facebook posts deemed by his accusers to be “provocative and annoying to Muslims.” He remains in gaol. In Kano and other northern states, several persons have been charged for “blasphemy” and some sentenced to death. In one case that grabbed global attention, a 13-year-old boy was sentenced to death by a Sharia court in Kano, though it was later overturned by The Court of Appeal. Back in June 2015, a Kano Sharia court sentenced eight men and a woman to death for “blasphemy.” Mercifully, no execution has so far been carried out. Truly, religious persecution has been rife. Yet, religious freedom and freedom from discrimination are expressly protected under the 1999 Constitution and by several international charters to which Nigeria is a signatory. But in the prevailing culture of impunity, violations abound, perpetrated by both state and non-state actors, including terrorist jihadi groups and unregulated clerics and mobs. North-Western, North-Eastern and some North-Central states routinely discriminate against non-Muslims, restricting their freedom to erect worship centres in certain places and denying them equal opportunities in state appointments. From year 2000, 12 states adopted criminal aspects of the Islamic law in brazen defiance of the constitution that in Section 10 declares, “The Government of the Federation or of a State shall not adopt any religion as State Religion.” The controversial Hisbah religious police routinely harass citizens on account of their dress mode, haircuts, social mixing of the sexes or of “eating during Ramadan.” Provocatively, they frequently seize and destroy alcoholic beverages. The federal and state governments overtly favour Christianity and Islam. This is odious in a multi-religious society. Such behaviour should give way to the true practice of secularism. Worse is the abuse of religious freedom by non-state actors. Mobs regularly rampage through the North; over 10,000 persons are estimated by Human Rights Watch to have died in such violence since 1998. Rights groups rank the attacks on churches and mosques, kidnapping of schoolgirls and slaughter of missionaries by Boko Haram/ISWAP as religious persecution. Nigeria is among the only 13 out of the 193 UN-member countries where atheism is punishable by death. Mobs have lately razed mosques in the South-East and South-South in lawless displays of religious intolerance. The Shiite Islamic Movement in Nigeria has also suffered heavy-handed repression; its leader, Ibrahim el-Zakzaky, and his wife, Zeenah, have been held without trial since December 2015 after soldiers razed their home and killed 347 sect members, according to an official finding, when they put down a protest. There should be a change in the behaviour of the state. Freedom of worship, like the right to life, liberty, movement, assembly, and association as well as of expression, is a fundamental right guaranteed in the constitution, which the President and the state governors swore to uphold. Democracy is empty without it. Freedom House, a non-profit, declared, “Freedom of worship — of belief and non-belief — is an important element of democracy, contributing to social peace, encouraging full participation, and strengthening pluralism more broadly.” The government must wean itself of religious violations, then protect the persecuted from non-state actors. Rights watchdogs accuse the state of failing to protect Nigerians and prosecute rights abusers. “The Federal Government did not always prevent or quell violence, often expressed along religious lines, or to protect victims of religious attacks, targeted because of their religious beliefs,” the report said. Society is governed by laws and crime must necessarily attract punishment; the government rarely arrests or prosecutes those who kill, maim, destroy, or otherwise violate others’ religious freedoms. Offenders should be punished. There should be no place for arbitrary blasphemy charges in a secular state. The federal and state governments should stop promoting the two main faiths and deploying public funds for religious pilgrimages. They are duty-bound to apprehend and prosecute those who violate religious freedom, attack churches or mosques in their domains. The Federal Government should forbid its law enforcement agencies from enforcing religious ordinances. Victims and civil society groups should challenge discriminatory laws and actions in the courts. Many issues currently divide Nigerians; preserving the union should include stopping violations of religious rights that have sharpened the deep divides in the polity and are pushing the union towards implosion. ”Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com