As the process for the amendment of the 1999 Constitution continues in parts of the country with zonal hearings in geopolitical zones, some Nigerians have expressed displeasure over the choice of the venue of the House of Representatives’ hearing in the South-West. The House is holding a two-day public hearing in the South-West region covering Lagos, Ogun, and Oyo States with Lagos as the centre. The House Committee is led by Nkeiruka Onyejeocha and the hearing is slated for Tuesday and Wednesday at the Marriot Hotel in Ikeja, Lagos. But some tweeps have taken to the social media to kick against the venue of the hearing which they described as too limited to accommodate people willing to attend the hearing. Recall that the Senate Committee on the constitution review in the South-West covering Lagos, Ogun, and Oyo States had held a two-day hearing at the same Marriot Hotel in Ikeja, Lagos. The venue of the hearing had 250 seats and the Senate Committee led by Oluremi Tinubu had had a tough time with attendees with many protesting their exclusion from the venue. Tinubu had also clashed with a Lagos politician, Arinola Oloko, whom she called a thug. Oloko had protested when she and others were denied entry into the venue while government officials were allowed in. Oloko had earlier told The PUNCH that the Tafawa Balewa Square which was initially advertised was a more spacious venue for the hearing. Reacting to the choice of the venue of the House hearing, Oloko tweeted on Tuesday, “Constitution review (hearing) ongoing as we speak at the same venue…this time by the House of Representatives…Amazing!” Actress Henshaw Kate also tweeted, “Two days only for review of constitution in a high browhotel that accommodates a very small number of people in the region but election time, corn will be eaten and akara will be fried by the roadside.” Youths activist Temitope Majekodunmi wrote, “Lagos, Oyo and Ogun centre had 250 seat capacity and the reason is that they don’t want thugs to join in the review.” “It’s important that the review of the construction mandate a specific period of time for capital sitting in a particular state, and must rotate to all the states of the federation. This will ease tensions of agitation, as well as bringing development to other state,” @Mylettersmitch1 opined. “This review should not include politicians and key office holders as they will not speak the trust because they’re in power, it should be for the masses,” @amazon08143008 tweeted.