Last week, I noted the role of religious leaders in any nation. One more thing I add here is that respect is earned;  it’s neither automatic nor commanded as some glibly claim. So there’s a very thin line between earning respect and losing it where a religious leader is concerned. The higher power he claims to represent is what essentially attracts reverence to a religious leader. In addition is the dignified and responsible manner he conducts himself. Once a religious leader abandons his job of calling mankind to the higher power, and publicly makes divisive comments like mere ethnic agitators do, he’s thrown away any aura of reverence he has. For the simple reason that his divisive utterances can make Rwanda happen here many reasonable Nigerians won’t hesitate to engage him in a robust debate. Now,  I come to the second segment of my intervention which I stated but didn’t touch last week. That is, calling Sunday Igboho’s attention  to a few things he might have missed and which made him to make the kind of comment he did about the General Overseer of The Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor E.A. Adeboye.  Different forces are ever at play in any nation.  Those who agitate for one thing or the other are part of it. Such are relevant to the functioning of any democratic system. However, I put the following to Igboho. An agitator should have a focus. No organised agitator takes on all battles. It cannot help his cause that he takes on too many battles on too many fronts. For just as Igboho has missed the point that a religious leader leads people from different tribes, his comment also shows he misses the point that he may be alienating the Yoruba in Adeboye’s church, the same Yoruba he agitates for.  What use is it to Igboho when he alienates a segment of the people he needs in order to remain relevant in the cause he pursues?  He didn’t think that part through. Also important for Igboho to note is that there’s a manner the Yoruba don’t talk.  We are a refined people. Any Yoruba person who talks recklessly obviously misses some fundamental training.  In fact, as I continue to relate with tribes other than mine, I see the difference in Yoruba polished sensibilities as well as the manner we talk. The other month, one Yoruba man was interviewed on TV. Asked to comment on a statement made by someone, this interviewee responded that the Yoruba don’t talk that way. Igboho speaks about Adeboye in a manner no Yoruba person who’s from the area which the historian, Dr. O. Johnson, referred to as ‘Oyo Proper’ does. Leaving out religion, no Yoruba person would look at the face of an elder who has never offended him and say what Igboho has said. More than that, I once told a friend what one person said sarcastically about yet another person who had some personal challenges. My friends   reacted: “Ah, when he too doesn’t know what can happen to him.”  I’m still wondering as to what spurred Igboho to say he wouldn’t  commiserate with Adeboye over the loss of his son. But it sounded to me like another comment that was not thought through before it was made.  In case some journalists lured Igboho into making comments that would sell their newspaper, I would only state that I hope Igboho would refrain from dabbling into issues that cannot help his cause. Alright, Igboho wants Adeboye to act the way he does. But I had stated it on this page in the past that in any setting, militants, activists, street protesters, and religious leaders occupy different spheres.  In any case, just as we don’t all have the same personality traits, so also all religious leaders don’t have the disposition of a Rev. Martin Luther King. More so, Adeboye has once said that as far as he’s concerned, prayers achieve more than activism. Furthermore,  do some agitators have the notion that certain changes in Nigeria happen just because of their activism? I imagine Adeboye has an answer to that as well. Recently, this religious leader was saying his followers should never mind those who claim personal credit for the lower rate of COVID-19 infection in Nigeria. He told his followers that it happened because they prayed. This thus addresses the wrong notion many have that just one course of action brings about changes in any society. Many routes actually lead to a destination. It’s the way it works.  Just as Rev. King was in the streets in the 1960s, I imagine that some other religious leaders in the US were on their knees praying for changes to happen. There were also African American lawyers who moved from one court to another to challenge injustice meted out to African-Americans. I suspect, going by his past public comments, that Adeboye will  make the submission that while some religious leaders make divisive comments about Nigeria and its peoples, he prefers to pray. He might submit that as some religious leaders openly insult government that their Book says they should pray for, he uses his good offices to counsel members of the same government. As some religious leaders become activists, Adeboye might say he and his followers have been engaged in their own activism too, but of a different kind. At least every Nigerian sees on TV how different groups and NGOs under his church help many poor people, how they establish institutions for skills acquisition among disadvantaged Nigerians, and how they establish state-of-the-art hospitals  across  Nigeria to help the helpless. This same religious leader, in his home state, paid for the construction of kilometers of road to his town and neighbouring towns. The beneficiaries of this last item are Yoruba people, the same people Igboho says he’s fighting for.  So while he agitates by attending rallies, it’s obvious that Adeboye does his own agitation by filling the gaps which  the government has left, especially in the area of improving the socio-economic condition of our peoples. Different paths do lead to a market. I imagine that as some religious leaders fight for only members of their tribe, Adeboye might say he doesn’t lose sight of the fact that he has people from every tribe as followers, so he cannot insult any tribe because of the criminality of a few. I suppose he would add that the founder of his religion didn’t fight for tribe, so he’s following the example that the founder of his religion has set.  But if Igboho expects Adeboye to agitate for only the Yoruba, he’s not alone. Many people who may not have a thorough understanding of what it means to claim to have a religion or be a religious leader say the same thing. As I implied last week, a religious leader is like a traditional ruler. The traditional ruler belongs to everyone, irrespective of tribe or religion. Everyone trusts and seeks his protection. A religious leader shouldn’t be anything less than this in any community where he resides. But here’s Igboho who expects a man who presides over a congregation that includes all tribes and nations to begin to agitate for only one tribe.  It’s not surprising, some religious leaders have laid a wrong precedent in other places in Nigeria and  Igboho thinks Adeboye should be like them. I submit here that I’m alarmed at how some who say they are religious leaders are sounding these days. I’m not alone. The immediate past Deputy Governor of Kaduna State, Yusuf Bala Bantex, once watched videos of what some religious leaders were saying on pulpit about people of other tribes. He’s so shocked that he issues a strong statement condemning such religious leaders, adding that this isn’t what his religion teaches. For me, Igboho, with his comment on Adeboye,  has moved beyond the boundary he carves for himself into a  territory he shouldn’t have ventured into.  He’s an agitator, and he should focus on that. There’s one space for him, and there’s another space that true religious leaders fill. As for religious leaders who focus on their calling, conducting themselves in such a manner that they remain unifying forces in our polarized communities and nation, they deserve the support and respect of all of us. – Concluded Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com