The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative has announced the appointment of Nigeria as the chair of the EITI global network on contract transparency. The Executive Secretary, Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, Orji Ogbonnaya-Orji, was announced as the one to chair the global initiative on behalf of Nigeria. The appointment was announced by the Country Manager of EITI for anglophone countries, Mike Uzoigwe, at the closing ceremony of a week-long retreat for management and staff of NEITI in Abuja. The EITI global network on contract transparency is tasked with the responsibility of developing a global framework, standard and tools of engagement on contract disclosures in the extractive industries to guide in the 54 member countries of EITI. Commenting on the development, Ogbonnaya-Orji was quoted in a statement issued by NEITI on Sunday as saying, “The appointment of Nigeria to chair the EITI global network on contract transparency is in recognition of the extensive work that NEITI has done.” He said the work that was done by NEITI had enshrined contract disclosure as part of the agency’s rules of engagement with covered entities in Nigeria. “I am happy to inform you that Nigeria has accepted the role,” Ogbonnaya-Orji said. He said the appointment of Nigeria to lead the global network was an acknowledgement and recognition of the enormous work and leadership that Nigeria had shown towards the implementation of the EITI over the years. The global network is made of 2O EITI implementing countries including Nigeria. The countries include Indonesia, Philippines, Mexico, Armenia, Cameroun, Chad and Democratic Republic of Congo. Others include Ghana, Malawi, Guinea, Mongolia, Mozambique, Myanmar, Senegal, Sao Tome e’ Principe, Togo, Zambia and Tanzania. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com