The Chief Executive Officer of TM Scents, Martha Omoruyi, tells ADELANI ADEPEGBA about her business What is your educational background? I am a graduate of Public Administration from the University of Benin. Tell us about your business. It is a perfumery online store that sells authentic designer, luxury niche and regular perfumes obtained from renowned fragrance manufacturers. I have been running the business for about six years now. I started it after working for some renowned perfumeries which increased my interest in perfumes, and made me to commence mine. Some people feel wearing perfumes is a luxury. What do you have to say to such people? People are oblivious of how they smell because one cannot smell oneself and one’s nose acclimatises with one’s body odour over time. However, having a signature smell one can dictate helps one to gain control. I help people boost their confidence and increase their level of attractiveness. Aside from having a passion for perfumes, I have worked with reputable perfumeries where I was exposed to how the business is run, and how profitable it could be. How have you grown your business over the years? I actually started out with very little funds which I put together from my savings. I was then able to grow the business from the point of selling cheaper perfumes till I was able to progressively add more expensive perfumes and luxury brands to my stock list. What setbacks have you experienced? My Instagram account was disabled as a result of lifting pictures from the Internet for advertisement. So, I had to do a short course on Internet marketing and painstakingly get perfect shots for my photo advertisements. It made me feel more original and authentic, and also earned me more followers and patronage on Instagram. Were you frustrated by the incident? It was tedious to overcome the ‘speed bump’ I encountered and I was frustrated on several fronts but all these were put behind me after I mastered my photography skills. I purchased enhancement tools and developed myself. I also made sure to abide by the terms and conditions of media platforms on marketing. Where do you hope to be in five years? I hope to have an assorted perfume range that would appeal to a variety of people. In addition, I wish to carve a niche for myself in selling luxury perfumes and also moderately-priced ones. What success tips do you have for young entrepreneurs? Do what you love. You need to have a passion for your product or service and know it inside out. You should also believe in yourself, and learn how to use the Internet properly to promote your business. You should be prepared to take risks as well, and have the right attitude. You might be young and self-confident. That is a valuable attribute but make sure your self-confidence doesn’t come across to clients, suppliers and other contacts as arrogance or being cocky. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com