The Ijaw Youths Council Worldwide has suspended its President, Peter Igbifa, for allegedly faking his own kidnap, describing the action as disrespectful. A former National Director of Mobilization, Isreal Fubara, disclosed this in a statement in Port Harcourt and made available to newsmen. Fubara, who now claims to be the acting President of the IYC, however, lauded all Ijaw youths who trooped out en masse for the protest aimed at forcing the Federal Government to inaugurate the board of the Niger Delta Development Commission. He said the IYC would continue to explore peaceful means in its demands. “Even though we remain a revolutionary body, our strategy of engagement has shifted from militant engagement because we are bound by the agreements of the amnesty programme and also because constructive engagement is currently a very effective strategy of political engagement all over the world. “This is why the leadership of the IYC across the regions has taken very seriously the series of disrespectful actions of our leader, my friend and brother, Peter Igbifa. “His series of disrespectful actions against the IYC and leaders of the region, which culminated into a very disgraceful stage-managed act of kidnap, has got to the peak, which caused leaders and congress from across the zones to pass a vote of no confidence in him. “Apparently, by these votes of no confidence he ceases to be the president of the IYC and his office and functions will be carried out by a national officer in acting capacity until a convention is duly organised,” he stated. Meanwhile, the IYC has been warned to refrain from making a mockery of the Niger Delta through unwarranted protest, thereby driving away potential investors from putting their money in the development of the oil-rich region. The Chairman, Ex-agitators Forum, lban Paulinus, aka Skillar, noted that incessant protests by the youth of the region could only send a bad signal to the business community, thereby discouraging genuine investors. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com