The information technology sector remains the key to the future of Nigeria despite the economic downturn occasioned by the outbreak of COVID-19 outbreak and emerging digital economy, the Managing Director of Westgate Technologies, Ijeoma Ezeudu, has said. He said, “We’ve have been in this Abuja for the past 10 years but as a company, Westgate has been in existence for the past 16 years. We have that vision to take IT to the highest level. “Although the COVID-19 pandemic is quite challenging, we have to keep pushing”, she told Journalists during the opening of a Westgate retail store in Abuja.” Speaking on the impact of the pandemic on the company, Ezeudu said, “We can’t really quantify but all we know is all the SMEs have been affected. That things are picking up now, you have to be innovative because the future of the world is IT.” According to her, customers of Westgate in Nigeria now have the benefit of enjoying both online and physical shopping experience with the newly unveiled store in Abuja. Targeted at technology-savvy clients, the shop allows customers to examine different range of products while buying gadgets that would improve their services, according to the company. She said, “What you find here is unique in the sense of good prices, quality products and guarantee. “The store will serve Nigerians across states who have bought the items from the store and will like to return it due to issues. “Our Omni channel approach really means we understand the new pattern of consumer behaviours occasioned  especially by COVID-19. As a company, any product bought from us whether online or offline, we guarantee same after sales support. “Furthermore, you can buy from any location and whenever you encounter any service/warranty issues, you can conveniently send it to any of our stores nearest to you and this is another advantage when you buy from Westgate.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com