EDO State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, on Thursday expressed dissatisfaction over the performance of the Niger Delta Development Commission in the area of projects execution. Obaseki specifically said the NDDC had not lived up to its responsibilities of infrastructural development in the Niger Delta and the improvement of the people’s living standard. The governor spoke when he received the Odiowere and elders of Ugha Quarters of Urhonigbe Town in Orhionmwon Local Government Area, who were on a courtesy visit at the Government House in Benin City. Represented by his Chief of Staff, Osaigbovo Iyoha, the governor reassured the people that his government would sustain ongoing projects across the state to boost economic activities and improve the lives of the people. He said, “We are aware and know that the (Urhonigbe) road has been awarded by NDDC; we make sure that we don’t duplicate efforts. NDDC has not been forthcoming with contracts that have been awarded at that level. “In a normal system, if the NDDC had lived up to its responsibilities and done the right thing, the government would not need to do the same project. We don’t duplicate work; it amounts to a waste of funds. “NDDC left the road in a worse shape than it was before the construction started. It is not an excuse to allow the people suffer, following the failure of an agency to perform its statutory responsibility.” Obaseki, however, promised to send government agencies to check the current state of the road and report back. Earlier, the Odiowere of Ugha Quarters, Michael Evharevba, whose speech was read by the Secretary, Michael Omorotionmwan, congratulated the governor and his deputy on their victory in the September 2020 governorship election and the subsequent successes at the courts. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com