The Executive Secretary/Chief Executive Officer, National Agricultural Land Development Authority, Paul Ikonne, tells OKECHUKWU NNODIM in this interview that NALDA has been ordered to recover all its abandoned lands nationwide Does NALDA have land in all states of the federation for the establishment of farm estates? NALDA had lands abandoned in virtually all the senatorial zones in the past. They are still there. For some of them, encroachments have taken place. But the President gave a directive that we should recover all of them. We went to Bauchi and the community where our land is located came out with the document dated back to 1995, donating the land to NALDA. The land is still there and that was where we did the dry season farming on rice. So, the Federal Government through NALDA has lands across the country that are abandoned, which is what we are trying to reactivate. How far have you gone in recovering the abandoned lands as directed by the President? After Mr President’s directive on recovery of NALDA abandoned farm estates across the country, we embarked on this vigorously and as of today, we have identified and recovered NALDA farm estates in Gombe, Borno, Adamawa, Taraba, Niger, Kebbi and Oyo. We have also identified and recovered lands in Imo, Katsina, Lagos, Ekiti, Delta, Bauchi, Yobe, Kaduna, Benue, Kogi, Osun, Anambra, Akwa Ibom and Abia states. We have started reactivating them in phases. NALDA engaged in dry season farming of rice in some pilot states of Adamawa, Niger, Yobe, Taraba and Bauchi. Farmers were trained on dry season farming, which they were not used to and we are expecting harvest in the coming weeks. NALDA provided all that were required for farming, ranging from tractors, boreholes, pumping machines, planters and trans-planters, fertilisers and seeds. In order to achieve food security under the National Young Farmers’ Scheme, which Mr President inaugurated in November 2020, NALDA introduced the training and empowering of young graduates through the initiative of soil doctors and extension service providers. NALDA is going to train and empower 30,000 soil doctors. This programme has since commenced and over 500 soil doctors have been trained in Borno and Jigawa states. The essence of this is to equip young graduates with agriculture or science backgrounds with the knowledge of extension services. The services include soil testing and analysis. Participants are given soil-testing kits in order for them to earn a living while ensuring our farmers are being equipped with the best agricultural practices for greater output. This programme is in partnership with state governments. Tell us more about these farm estates. In Imo, we have started the reconstruction and reactivation of the abandoned Acharaugo Farm Estate, which comprises 20 poultry pens, goat pens, crop farming areas and feed mill and is expected to be completed by August. In Ebonyi we are in the process of reactivating the hatchery farm in Nkaliki. We initiated the NALDA Integrated Farm Estate programme to be established in the 109 senatorial districts across the country and we have reached out to the leadership of the Senate for senators to facilitate land donation with the state governments. This programme is under the NYFS and each integrated farm is expected to engage at least 1,500 farmers. The integrated farm estate will have poultry pens, goat pens, rabbit pens, fish ponds, crop farming areas, processing and packaging plants, storage, clinics, residential area, school, training centres as well as an administrative facility. The project has since started in Ogun, Anambra, Ekiti and Ebonyi states with land clearing ongoing, while in Katsina and Borno states, the project has reached 80 per cent and 30 per cent completion respectively. This is the prototype of the project to be replicated in 109 senatorial districts, subject to availability of land. How would you quantify the possible contribution of farm estates to Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product? Our major aim is not only to achieve food security in Nigeria, but to also show that Nigeria can work through this NALDA integrated farm estates. I will get the total cost of these integrated projects and their expected outputs so that we can merge them side by side and see how it will add to our GDP. The first thing from this project is that it is directly impacting on rural dwellers. Don’t forget that NALDA’s core mandate is to help develop the rural areas through agriculture. These farm estates will be owned by the farmers from the rural communities. That is why we reached out to senators so that every senator in collaboration with the state government will donate land within their senatorial zone so that we can have this programme integrated across the country. Are you collaborating with state governments to fund the farm estates? Funds are not usually the problems of projects. Every good project generates funds naturally. First of all is to have the buy-in. The moment people are able to buy into the project; you will find that what you thought would cost you billions would eventually cost you less. But when they don’t have the buy-in into your project, that is when you spend more. The farm estate project is owned by the people. All the materials being used to work in locations where the projects are ongoing were secured by the people. Residents of the communities are the ones working there. So, what this means is that it will make labour cheaper because from day one, they know that this is their farm and that it is being developed to certain levels. So in funding the farm estates, we are going to engage the communities because the land belongs to them and the project belongs to them. Therefore, engaging them makes it easier. Our own is to provide the necessary things such as land clearing, preparation, capacity building, equipment such as tractors and guide them all through. At the end of the day, NALDA will become the off-taker in order for the farmers to have value for their outputs. Therefore, I will say that funding is not the challenge. How has insecurity impacted on NALDA’s operations? To be very honest with you, we have been going round the country and we have not had any issue of insecurity, attacked directly or in a situation that hindered us from carrying out our projects. We have done dry season farming and we selected some states because we believe in doing pilot programmes so that during such programmes, we will identify the challenges and mistakes. And of course, we will address these challenges and correct the mistakes in subsequent programmes. Are there challenges affecting your vision of positioning agriculture as a business in Nigeria? There is no responsible organisation that does not face one or two challenges and these challenges propel you to achieve your goals. So, challenges are there but they have not deterred us from reaching our goals. Don’t forget that we report to Mr. President and we can’t go to him with excuses caused by challenges. So, we don’t report challenges; rather we report progress and make requests. We have a vision and it is to position agriculture in the minds of young Nigerians as a business, not as something that is meant for people who didn’t go to school. We want our youths to approach agriculture as a platform that they can use to generate and make meaningful income. Based on that, we initiated programmes and in initiating programmes, you must take them stage by stage before you arrive at a conclusion. We are discussing this now because we have come to this point. We never came up to say we are going to do integrated farm estates, but we started it and then we are putting a prototype so that we will see the mistakes, challenges and improve on them all. So, those challenges are meant to propel us to achieve our desired goals. Take us through some of the other programmes you are currently implementing. On June 1, 2020, Mr President resuscitated NALDA and domiciled it under his supervision as contained in the Act that established NALDA. Mr President appointed my humble self as executive secretary/CEO with a clear directive to achieve NALDA’s mandate as contained in the Act. With this directive in mind, we were determined to achieve Mr President’s directive. So, we reached out to Nigerians to volunteer and we got thousands of volunteers out of which we chose few to coordinate the activities of NALDA in various states, while some staff were posted to us from ministries and other government agencies. Recall that in our first press briefing, we announced our animal husbandry programme, which includes rabbit and goat rearing in some pilot states. This programme is a huge success as we have harvested over 30,000 litres of rabbit urine and 1,000kg of rabbit droppings, which are being used as fertiliser having subjected it to laboratory analysis and the rabbit farmers are making income from this. In line with NALDA’s mandate of achieving food security, we have embarked on establishing fish villages to engage rural women in fish production and packaging in some pilot states. The states include Borno and Abia. In Borno, we have started the construction of fish villages in 10 locations out of the 50 locations provided by the Borno State Government to engage 2,200 women. In Abia, the fish village in one location is 40 per cent completed. NALDA is in partnership with some state governments to reactivate abandoned state-owned farm estates. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com