The National Onion Producers, Processors and Marketers Association of Nigeria has described Governor Hope Uzodimma of Imo State as a patriotic Nigerian who craves for the unity of Nigeria and her people. The onion producers made the remark on Thursday when they paid the governor a courtesy visit at the Government House in Owerri. The onion producers drawn from different parts of the North said Uzodimma’s disposition to national unity made them to have a rethink about stopping to send onions to the South-East. Speaking on behalf of his members, the National President of NOPPMAN, Alhaji Aliyu Isah, said, “As a governor, since assumption of office, he has exhibited keen interest and demonstrated a rare commitment of passion to cooperative mechanism that will enhance unity, togetherness, social cohesion and solidarity among the diverse people of Imo State in particular and Nigeria in general.” In his response, Uzodimma regretted that lives were lost needlessly during the security breaches and assured them that Imo State was now safe and that the enemies had been chased away. On the group’s appeal for compensation for their goods that were destroyed, Uzodimma promised to set up a committee that would see to the promotion of the onion business in Imo State and Nigeria in general by ensuring that the movement of their goods to their destinations was protected. Gov to empower 15,000 youths with N4bn Meanwhile, Uzodimma will on Saturday empower 15,000 youths with N4bn. The state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Declan Emelumba, in a statement on Thursday, said each of the youth would receive N250,000 as a seed capital to pursue any trade of their choice. Emelumba said the youth, who were drawn from the 27 local government areas of the state, had been trained in various vocations. The commissioner said the gesture was in fulfilment of the governor’s promise to alleviate poverty and reduce crime in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com