Since filmmaker, Anita Abada, was announced as the winner of #Film4Health, a World Health Organisation award for health educational films, she has been getting accolades from different quarters. In an interview with Sunday Scoop, Abada stated that short film, which was screened at the WHO Health for All Film Festival, was made to draw attention to the issues of female genital mutilation. She said, “Sexual and gender-based violence is still very much a global problem and female genital mutilation happens to be one of the issues faced by young girls and women around the world, especially in Africa, Middle East and Asia. “The film was made to further the discourse on female genital mutilation and educate people on the negative impacts of this practice on the health of girls and women. It is also aimed at educating women and youths on the right to make their own choices.” The young filmmaker also noted she was pleased with the global recognition the short film had got. She said, “Being globally recognised for my film is a feat I do not take for granted. It is indeed a great honour. However, I believe it does not stop here. It is an opportunity to continue making great films that would get more global recognition.” Abada, who described herself as a self-taught filmmaker, also said she had to maximise the little resources she had to make the film. She said, “Making the film was quite taxing. Finding a suitable location was challenging because I wanted to depict the story in a rural area, so we had to go to a far distance to shoot. We literally crossed a river and climbed a hill to get a suitable location. We filmed into the night and had to return to our destinations very late. “It was shot on a low budget with just four crew members— me (director, producer and writer), Omoregie Osakpolor (director of production), Silas Abada (sound man and editor) and Ejiro Stephen (lighting and behind-the-scene personnel). We had limited manpower and I was also working with actors who were acting professionally for the first time.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com