Residents of Ikot Abia village in Eket Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State have been thrown into a state of disbelief following the murder of one Patience Christopher, aged 40, by her husband, Pastor Ukachukwu Christopher. Christopher, 49,  the General Overseer of Omega World Global Ministry (Fellowship Church), in the area and an indigene of Ebonyi State, allegedly beat his wife, a mother of five to death on Wednesday after accusing her of infidelity. It was gathered that he buried her corpse in a shallow grave in his compound to cover his tracks. A statement by the Police Public Relations Officer, Odiko Macdon on Thursday said the suspect was arrested after credible information by youths of the area. “The Akwa Ibom State Police Command has arrested one Ukachukwu Enoch Christopher for murdering his wife and burying the corpse in a shallow grave in his compound. “On 16th of June, 2021,  around 2pm, relying on information from youths of the area, the DPO of Eket Police Division, CSP Sunday Digha, and team, arrested one Ukachukwu Christopher, founder of Omega World  Global Ministry ( Fellowship Church), for murdering his wife, Patience Christopher,. “The suspect, who had domestic differences with his wife, accused her of being the source of his numerous woes in life and infidelity, confessed to have beaten her to death as a result of the unresolved differences on the 9th of June. In other to cover his tracks, he dug a shallow grave in his compound and buried her. The deceased’s corpse has been exhumed by the police and deposited in the mortuary for autopsy. “The Commissioner of Police Akwa Ibom State, Andrew Amiengheme has ordered the Deputy Commissioner of Police in-charge of the State Investigation and Intelligence Department to take over the matter for discreet investigation and assured that the suspect will be charged to court as soon as investigation is concluded,” the statement reads in part. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com