THE Federal High Court sitting in Abuja on Tuesday ordered the Federal Government to pay $3bn to Rivers and Akwa Ibom States as their share from proceeds of crude oil sale. The court ordered the said sum to be paid from the $62bn recovered by the Federal Government from some oil companies. In the suit, the Attorney-Generals of Rivers and Akwa Ibom states had sued the AGF relying on a press statement from the office of the AGF which was published by the ThisDay Newspaper that $62bn was recovered from oil companies as proceeds of crude oil sales. Delivering the judgment, Justice Taiwo Taiwo directed that $1,114,551,610 should be paid to Rivers State and $2,258,411,586 paid to Akwa Ibom State from the recovered revenue. Justice Taiwo stated that the refusal of the Federal Government to defend the case when served with the court processes amounted to an admission of the monetary claim by the states. According to the court, the mere notice of intention to defend the case without taking issues with the plaintiff was fatal to the Federal Government’s case. “By not filing defence to challenge the claims of $62bn oil earnings of the two plaintiffs, I have no option than to hold that the Federal Government has no defence to the issue and I have no discretion to give judgment in favour of the plaintiffs. “I hereby make an order that $1,114,551,610 be paid to Rivers State as its share from the $62bn oil revenue and another $2,258,411,586 be also paid to Akwa Ibom as its own share from the oil proceeds,” the court held. The court ruled against the assertion by the Federal Government that it could not pay the said sum as it ought to have filed a defence to explain itself according to the law. Justice Taiwo held that although, the AGF office attempted to withdraw the press statement, the issue of the huge revenue generation was not addressed. The judge subsequently held that the Federal Government actually recovered the said $62bn as contained in the press statement and ordered it to release the shares of the two states to them in compliance with a Supreme Court judgment. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com