IN a dramatic move, embittered Kano State Governor, Dr Abdullahi Ganduje, on June 28,2021, made a U-turn by applying for the withdraw of the litigation he earlier instituted against the publisher of Daily Nigerian (an online news medium) Jaafar Jaafar. Recall that Ganduje instituted legal action against Jaafar since 2018 over a story the Daily Nigerian published on its website, https://dailynigerian.com titled, ‘Exclusive: Nigerian governor caught on video receiving $5m bribes, and other follow-up stories on the same website, which the governor viewed, as defamatory against him. To this extent, the plaintiff approached the court to declare that “the act of publishing and circulating libelous statements, false video clips on online media, attacking and impugning the character and integrity of the plaintiff tantamount to defamation of character of the plaintiff by the defendants.” He therefore sought for perpetual injunction: “restraining the defendants from further publishing and sharing the said defamatory statement on any media howsoever described.” However, in a dramatic move, according to the The PUNCH findings, Ganduje’s lawyers, led by Chief E.O.B Offiong, SAN, in an application to the Kano State High Court, dated the 28th day of June, 2021, sought the following orders from the court: “An order granting leave to the plaintiff/applicant to discontinue his claims in Suit No K/519/2018 against the defendant before this Honourable Court. “An order discontinuing the plaintiff/applicant’s claims in Suit No K/519/2018 against the defendant in this Honourable Court.” The application was supported by a four-paragraph affidavit deposed to by C. N. Obile, Esq. who said in paragraph 3 (c) and (d) that :“the matter is yet to proceed to trial and the plaintiff/applicant now intends to discontinue this action before this Honourable Court. The case was scheduled to be mentioned on the 6th day of July, 2021. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com