Imo State Commissioner of Police, Abutu Yaro, has asked the residents of Owerri, the state capital, to resume nightlife. Yaro said the security situation of the state had improved to the point that people had to start living their normal life. Nightlife had closed in the state following the spate of attacks on government facilities and killings in the state in recent times. Hoodlums have attacked and razed several police stations, the Owerri Correctional Centre, court complexes, and offices of the Independent National Electoral Commission. No fewer than 50 security operatives and civilians have been reportedly killed in the process. However, Yaro said that security agents were winning the war against banditry in the state. Responding to an inquiry from Sunday PUNCH, Yaro said the killing of the leader of a gang in the state, popularly known as Dragon, the “swift neutralisation” of killers of a former presidential aide, Ahmed Gulak, and others were pointers that the security agents were getting it right in the fight against insurgents in the state. Yaro said the state, especially Owerri, the state capital, was returning to sanity since the security agents, in different joint operations, decimated the hoodlums. The CP also said the arrest of the suspected hoodlums who razed the country home of Governor Hope Uzodinma and their witch-doctor a few days ago was also clear evidence that hoodlums were no longer having a field day in the state. He, therefore, called on the people of the state to resume nightlife in the state capital. “We are winning the war against banditry and bandits in the state. The security agents have the capacities and capabilities to protect lives and property in the state. Let nightlife, which Owerri is known for, resume,” Yaro said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com