Experts in the telecommunications space have asked that the new licencing regime of the Nigerian Communications Commission to favour small operators in the industry. In a telephone interview, telecommunications lawyer, Ayoola Oke, said small operators in the space kept dying. He said, “Small operators keep dying; new entrants come in and die off. “The only new entrant in the last 10 or 15 years to have grown and stabilised is Visafone. But we should have seen other companies coming in, stabilising and growing. “Is there something the NCC needs to do to encourage the growth of new entrants? Is there anything NCC needs to do to assist with increased local content in the industry, both in human resources and in provision of services, in manufacturing? These are the kind of things that should necessitate a comprehensive review.” The NCC had said in a recent statement announced that it had begun the process for the review of existing licensing structure in the Nigerian telecommunications industry. Oke said reviewing the licencing structure in the telco space was a normal routine as the advent of new technologies created loopholes in existing licencing structures. He said, “At the beginning, the licencing structure of the NCC was for digital mobile, before the introduction of the unified access service licence. This was in response to the convergence of technology. “So, there was no point limiting operators to one type of licence, because the technology was such that everybody could do everything. It was difficult to maintain the dichotomy between fixed lines and mobile lines because technology was such that those who were doing fixed could now do mobile.” Former President of the Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria, Olusola Teniola, said the move by the NCC to review licencing structure was informed by the convergence of broadcasting and communications. He said, “Well, you know that we are in a transition, and it started a while ago. The transition started when broadcasting and communications converged. Technology has converged these separate disciplines in areas of communications into one. “In different climes of the world, they have merged the broadcasting and communication of signals into one. In Nigeria, we still have the National Broadcasting Commission and NCC regulating broadcasting and communications respectively.” Teniola believes that licencing has to be updated to reflect new digital realities. He said, “Transmission of multimedia is done in 0s and 1s, and with the advent of Over The Top applications that are now being used, and the fact that they are overlaid on top of legacy network which carries basic voice and SMS, the work of NCC can only get much more complicated if they are not able to merge both the broadcasting and communication aspect under one umbrella. “The licencing regime we currently have is much more voice oriented. It came alive when we were trying to build up our network. “Now we have data, and it is the new oil. Data services are much more different from voice services, and you can argue that voice now can be carried using data. “So, the licencing regime of NCC needs to be upgraded to reflect the new reality. For the industry, it is a positive change.” Teniola argued that Africa was lagging behind in the race for new technologies, and Nigeria needed to stop playing catch up but start setting the pace on the continent. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com