The health of Sophia, the wife of a Dubai-based businessman, Jude Eze, has deteriorated after some personnel of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority allegedly absconded with her during an arrest while she was bleeding. PUNCH Metro had reported that a combined team of policemen and LASTMA officials arrested Jude on Friday in the Akowonjo area of the state for seat belt infringement. It was reported that Sophia was bleeding and could not use the seat belt, but attempts to explain to the LASTMA personnel proved abortive as they allegedly impounded Jude’s vehicle with his wife inside. The father of four had told PUNCH Metro that while he was pleading with the officials to allow him to take his wife to hospital, one of them jumped into the car and drove away. The General Manager of LASTMA, Olajide Oduyoye, had said the agency was investigating the matter, adding that Jude would be invited on Monday to identify the officials. However, when our correspondent contacted Jude on Monday, he said he could not go to the LASTMA office as his wife started bleeding again and had to be rushed to hospital. He stated, “After I dropped my kids in school and came back home around 9am, I met my wife crying; she said she had started bleeding again, so I told her that it would be better to take her to a general hospital to see a specialist. “I rushed her to the Igando General Hospital and the doctor examined her to see if there would be a need for an evacuation, but after examining her, he said there was no need for such and that she would bleed for a while before the blood would stop; so, he gave her some medication and gave her an appointment for next week. “The arrest and delay by the LASTMA officials compounded her issue; the doctor even chastised me for not bringing her immediately I noticed that she was bleeding. She lost so much blood. My wife almost died while she was with the LASTMA personnel. “I was called this morning to find out if I could come to their office to identify the officers, but I told them that I had to rush my wife to hospital. I want to see what the management of LASTMA will do before I explore other means. I want those people removed from LASTMA; they don’t deserve to be there; they are wolves in sheep’s clothing.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com