Following the Saturday’s protest which led to the blockage of Kaduna-Abuja Expressway by residents over attacks by bandits, the Kaduna State Governor, Malam Nasir El-Rufai, has met with the village head and other members of the community in the area. Recall that the residents of Ungwar Magaji in the Chikun Local Government Area had barricaded the expressway following the killing of a 13-year- old girl. However, accompanied by the Speaker of the Kaduna State House of Assembly, Yusuf Ibrahim Zailani, the governor interacted with residents of the area. El-Rufai was initially received at the Kaduna-Abuja road by the Force Commander, Operation Thunder Strike, Lt. Col. MH Abdullahi, who briefed him on the security situation in area. According to a statement by the state Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr Samuel Aruwan on Sunday, “the Governor held a meeting at Kakkau community which was attended by the village head, Mr. Iliya Garba Zarmai and members of the community.” The governor was quoted to have told residents that the government was doing all it could to ensure the safety of their lives and property. The governor, however, warned against blocking of roads, “a practice he described as detrimental to the activities of innocent citizens whose movement is forced to a halt.” He stressed that such actions would offer no solution but only create panic and further breakdown of law and order. Recalled that within the last one week, security agencies reported to the Kaduna State Government several incidences of attacks by bandits which left some citizens dead in Kakkau, Damba-Kasaya, Kankomi, Kajuru town, Idasu, Karaukarau, and Sobawa villages in Chikun, Igabi, Giwa and Kajuru local government areas. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com