Vice President of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief Damian Okeke-Ogene, has commended Twitter for deleting a controversial post by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Nigerian  Civil War from 1967 and 1970. The tweet, which was posted on Tuesday, read in part, “Many of those misbehaving today are too young to be aware of the destruction and loss of lives that occurred during the Nigerian Civil War. Those of us in the fields for 30 months, who went through the war, will treat them in the language they understand.” The tweet attracted strong criticisms with many Nigerians saying it was a threat to commit human rights violations. Speaking to our correspondent, Okeke-Ogene said the development should be a warning signal to the President. He said it was clear that there was maladministration in the country. “Things are not working out well in the country. People are being slaughtered like animals everyday in the country. It should serve as a lesson to him (Buhari). It should serve as a lesson to the government of Nigeria that the international community is no longer happy with what is going on in Nigeria. “It should be a thing for sober reflection.  It’s time for them to find solution to all these problems. The situation in this country is not conducive. Nigeria is a big country that any bad thing happening here would have ripple effects on other countries, particularly the countries in sub-Saharan Africa. So, nobody should be surprised that the international community is getting involved. It is a warning signal.” Also,  the Indigenous People of Biafra said the development was a signal that the President would be heading to the International Criminal Court sooner or later. The IPOB Media and Publicity Secretary, Emma Powerful, said this in a statement sent to one of our correspondents. He said, “The Indigenous People of Biafra has noted the action of Twitter in deleting the inciting and acrimonious statement by  Muhamnadu Buhari, threatening another war against Biafrans. “We know that the global outrage sparked by the evil,  unpresidential and genocidal tweets made the cabal running the zoo to beg Twitter to delete them. But we want to assure him that the world has already taken note of the genocidal threat. He cannot escape the International Criminal Court to account for his actions sooner or later. “We however, commend Twitter for its courage to speak truth to power. IPOB demands Twitter to go step further and completely delete Buhari from its system as a deterrent to other tyrants like him.”