THE trial of eight suspects brought to an Ilorin High Court over alleged rape, armed robbery and murder of a 24-year-old student of the University of Ilorin, Olajide Omowumi, could not commence on Wednesday because of the inability of three of the suspects to produce legal representation. The suspects; Abdulazeez Ismail, Ajala Oluwatimileyin (aka Jacklord), Oyeyemi Omogbolahan, Abdulkarim Shuaib (Easy), Kareem Rasheed (Rashworld), Abdullateef Abdulrahman, Daud Adebayo (Bashman) and Akande Oladoja, were scheduled to be arraigned before Justice Ibrahim Yusuf of a Kwara State High Court. Recall that the Kwara State Police Command had confirmed suspected rape and murder of a 300 Level student of Agricultural Science of the University of Ilorin in her residence located at Tanke area, Ilorin. The defendants were brought before the court by the Kwara State Government in Suit No KWS/33c/c/2021, on 11 counts bordering on armed robbery, illegal possession of firearms, rape and murder. Three of the defendants, Abdulazeez Ismail, Ajala Oluwatimileyin (Jacklord) and Oyeyemi Timileyin Omogbolahan were alleged to have conspired among themselves, “to rob one Olajide Gloria Omowumi also known as ‘Wumi’ (now deceased) of her Samsung Galaxy A2 Core handset and carted away other items, including one black Acer aspire, one series laptop, one Samsung drive, one pink wireless mouse, one white handheld mini sewing machine, one Infinix charger and one gold colour wintouch tab while armed with offensive weapon, including a black wooden pistol gun.” The prosecution also accused five others of aiding and abetting through the receipt of stolen items, which include Samsung Galaxy A2 Core handset and some other computer gadgets being proceeds of armed robbery. The prosecution in the charge also accused Abdulazeez Ismail, Kareem Rasheed and Abdulkarim Shuaib of stealing a sum of N116,000 from the GTB account of the deceased. The plea of all the suspects was not taken by the court. The Kwara State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Salman Jawondo, the leading prosecution counsel, said the case could not go on because three of the accused persons had not been able to secure the services of counsels that would give them legal representation during the trial of the case. Justice Yusuf, however, ordered the suspects to be remanded in the Federal Government Correctional facilities at Mandala, Ilorin and adjourned the case till July 6, 2021. Speaking to journalists shortly after the court proceedings, Jawondo said, “The case was slated for the arraignment of the accused persons; unfortunately, three of them have not been able to secure the services of counsels to give them legal representation at the trial which they are entitled to under the 1999 Nigeria Constitution since the offence is capital in nature.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com