Teaching and non-teaching staff members of the D. S. Adegbenro Polytechnic, Itori, Ewekoro, Ogun State, on Thursday, ran in different directions following the firing of gunshots on the campus. Our correspondent gathered that the gunshots were heard shortly after the leadership of the National Association of Nigerian Students, Ogun State chapter, gained entry onto the campus. It was gathered that the incident brought back to memory last year’s assassination of a lecturer of the institution, who was shot dead at the gate. The incident happened 24 hours after students of the polytechnic blocked the Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway to protest against the management over examination matters. A video, which has since gone viral, showed how the protesters humiliated the Special Assistant to the Governor on Students’ Matters, Azeez Adeyemi. It was learnt that NANS had been factionalised into two groups with Adeyemi leading one. Findings revealed that the visit of NANS members loyal to Adeyemi was seen as an attempt to launch a reprisal on the other faction. A source told our correspondent that the teaching and non-teaching staff members became agitated following the sound of gunshots and scampered for safety. The source said, “Nobody knows what is going to happen next to workers of the institution as the situation is getting tense by day.” The NANS leaders reportedly stormed the institution in an SUV with tinted glasses with NANS number plate. They allegedly blocked the gate that led to the Rector’s office. When contacted, the NANS Chairman, Damilola Simeon, said he did not know anything about the shooting. He confirmed that gunshot sound was heard shortly after he and his team got to the campus. Explaining the reason for his visit, Simeon said he was in the school on the invitation of the acting Rector, Job-Kehinde Olatunji. “I received a call from the Rector, who told me that the management and students have reached an agreement over the last protest. I went there to meet with the Rector,” he said. The Public Relations Officer of the institution, Yinka Adegbite, said there was no casualty. He said “The NANS exco in Ogun State, led by the Chairman, Damilola Simeon, came to register their displeasure over how Damilola was treated on Wednesday; the matter of yesterday (Wednesday) became a mob action; nobody could say who attacked their chairman. “But in any case, the chairman was reportedly attacked and so they came this morning to register their displeasure; while we were inside discussing with them, we heard loud bangs outside. “We didn’t see any gun and so, I can’t confirm that; when people heard the sound, they got scared and they assumed it was gunshot. “They have gone back now; we discussed with them and we assured them that there is no way the management would have orchestrated that type of attack.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com