A man, Kayode Adeyanju, has been arrested by men of the Lagos State Police Command for allegedly defiling his 14-year-old daughter in the Ikorodu area of the state. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi, said the suspect was arrested after the victim reported the incident to the police. He added that the case had been transferred to the Gender Unit of the command for further investigation. Adejobi said in a statement, “Police operatives attached to the Ipakodo Division, Ikorodu, on June 7, 2021, arrested one Kayode Adeyanju, 45, of the Redeemed Church, Tinubu Estate, Ibeshe, Ikorodu, Lagos State, for defiling his 14-year-old daughter. “The victim personally reported the case at the Ipakodo Police Station, Ikorodu, on June 7, 2021, after her horrible ordeal in the hands of her father and police operatives arrested the suspect. “The state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, has condemned the act and ordered that the case be transferred to the Gender Unit of the command for further investigation.” Similarly, police operatives attached to the Morogbo Division, on Sunday, June 13, 2021, around 10am, following a tip-off from the management of House 2 Hotel, Igbekele, Morogbo, Lagos State, that some boys suspected to be cultists were holding a meeting in the hotel, arrested seven suspected cultists. Adejobi said, “The suspects are Hameed Salami, 35; Ogunlade Adewale, 30; Sunday Ogbemudia, 36; Okekunle Segun, 26; Imole Kingsley, 23; Rasak Lekan, 26; and Osuya Innocent, 23.  Items recovered from them include one locally-made pistol, two live cartridges, one axe and assorted charms. “The CP has ordered that the case be transferred to the command’s Special Squad, Ikeja, for discreet investigation.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com