“Nigerian doctors are desperate to leave because we have not been paid for five months and we have bills to pay. We lost 19 doctors during COVID-19 and yet no insurance claim has been paid to the families” –President, National Association of Resident Doctors, Dr. Uyilawa Okhuaihesuyi, USAAfrica Dialogue, June 12, 2021 Contained in what we may loosely call the June 12 movement are the principle of free and fair elections, the rejection of the rule by cabals, military or civilian, commitment to the abolition or significant reduction of poverty, and a quickening of good governance. Recalling the magnificent civil society struggles regarding the anti-annulment protests, elder statesman, Mr. Ayo Opadokun, lamented recently that what we have now is “not the democracy we fought for”. This speaks to the betrayal of hopes, false trails and disappointments that our democracy, though it survives, has brought around. Doubtless, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), deserves kudos for immortalising MKO Abiola and making June12 Democracy Day instead of May 29. Encouraging as that is, the ultimate deciders of his legacy and place in history will be to what extent he has acted as a game-changer to the repetitive failure and mediocrity of governance in Nigeria. Let us begin with a simple, troubling question. How many Nigerians were able to listen to Buhari’s broadcast of June 12 to the nation? They cannot be too many, considering that in the last two weeks, power outages have become rampant and insistent virtually in every part of the country. A recent report in one of our newspapers captures the woes and throes of the situation with a report headlined, ‘Nigerians to Federal Government: Take urgent action on power crisis’. The narrative portrays vividly the anguish of electricity consumers across the country as they struggle with the drop in generation, transmission and distribution of power. Hard hit are Small and Medium Scale Enterprises whose profit margins have been wiped out by the unexplained drop in electricity. For sure, this is not a new problem, the issue is that no solution has been found to it despite repeated promises, and it is getting worse. According to Nairametrics, over $12bn was spent in 2019 by Nigerians on generators and fuel up from $12bn the previous year. Even the annual generation of electricity which for several years was put roughly at 3,807 megawatts had since fallen below that minimal threshold. Naturally, Nigerians are forced to compare themselves to countries like South Africa, with a population of less than 60 million but generated last year over 51,000megawatts. Do you want to look at Brazil? Roughly the same population as Nigeria but which generates over 100,000megawatts? The issue, therefore, is that it is vain to continue to reel off initiatives of the regime to turn the tide knowing full well that politics and the heat of political competition will take over the governance space anytime from the end of this year. On present terms, it is unlikely that the familiar story of consumer woes in this area will be altered to any significant degree. Take another area where expectations and promises have far outstripped results, namely, the health sector and you will shudder at how poorly we continue to tag along. The opening quote sourced from a spokesperson for resident doctors conveys the worsening plight of some of our best trained medical personnel. The revelation was made in the context of the growing exodus of Nigerian-trained doctors to the United Kingdom and other countries. Perusing the website of the General Medical Council of the UK, the narrative informs that 200 Nigerian-trained doctors were licensed in the UK in April and May this year alone. Going back 10 months earlier, the story makes known that the number of Nigerian-trained doctors jumped from 7,870 to 8,384 in less than a year. Granted, Nigerians can take some comfort from the fact that doctors trained in our country can still find jobs in the UK, Canada and other countries. But please bear in mind that these are doctors who graduated in earlier years when the deteriorating standard of education had not reached the extent to which it has since fallen. As an illustration, the daughter of a family friend who left one of our University Teaching Hospitals three months ago, had graduated from the Obafemi Awolowo University over a decade ago. So, it is cold comfort for anyone to luxuriate in the fact that medical training remains superb or up to par in the country. Beyond that however, is the fact that the brain drain in the medical sector is increasing at a time when the country needs to harness its human resources because of the fright and possibility of new pandemics. As this columnist repeatedly argues, wiser nations do not need emergencies before switching their preparation into high gear. Rather, they anticipate, build and rehearse scenarios ahead of time to be sure that they are at least one step ahead of emergencies. In this light, it will be tragic to dismiss the rising population of Nigerian doctors overseas as unimportant. Notice too, as the USAAfrica Dialogue story envisages, more professionals especially in the medical field may leave the country because of the raging insecurity and the call of some pastors and eminent citizens that families should ensure that they have a Plan B, in case no one comes up with any real solution to the crisis of senseless killings beyond excuses, explanations and condolences. Of course, it is possible for the brain drain to be turned into  brain gain if Nigeria recovers from its current state of anomie and frightening murders while basic services become, not a rarity, but something to take for granted. The painful thing, however, is that it is difficult to say that this is about to happen notwithstanding limited improvement here and there in a few areas. There is one other area in which regrettably we have fallen short of the ideals of June 12 and the spirit of free expression with which Nigeria is famously associated. Is it not a crying shame that several youths in some of our cities who came out on June 12 to demand real as opposed to imaginary change were tear-gassed by law enforcement agents in an attempt to abort the protest? By contrast, pro-government solidarity marchers in the Federal Capital Territory were given leeway and even encouraged in their activities. Obviously, it runs against the spirit of free expression   symbolised by the June 12 struggle to allow only those chanting ‘glory to the ruler’ access to an important fundamental human right. Indeed, in several cities and towns around the country, many citizens fearing that they might be brutalised, avoided outdoor activities, thereby detracting from the sometimes carnival-like atmosphere in which June 12 is marked All hope is not lost however. Government can use the little time and space available for governance to reorder events and slow down the free fall in the areas of insecurity, deterioration of basic services such as power supply and health, as well as rekindle hope in a brighter and greater Nigeria. If this happens, the labours of the heroes and martyrs of June 12 would not have been in vain. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com