Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong, has called on the residents of the state to increase surveillance in their communities so as to stop further attacks on them by gunmen. The Governor made the call on Monday when he visited some communities attacked by gunmen in Jos South Local Government Area of the state. This is according to a statement issued by the Governor’s Director of Press and Public Affairs, Makut Macham, and titled, ‘KURU KILLINGS: LALONG WARNS AGAINST ATTACKS ON INNOCENT CITIZENS, BEGS COMMUNITIES TO INCREASE SURVEILLANCE. ‘ The statement said, “Distressed by the killing of innocent citizens in Sabon Layi, Kuru in Jos South Local Government Area, Governor Simon Lalong has appealed to citizens to increase surveillance and intelligence gathering as well as collaborate with security agencies to foil such attacks which are carried out in a hit and run fashion by criminals who are bent on disturbing the peace of the state. “Governor Simon Lalong who expressed disgust over the murderous incident which occurred on Sunday night in Sabon Layi Kuru, in Jos South Local Government with 12 people dead and 5 critically injured, said these unprovoked and isolated attacks on soft targets must be stopped at all cost, as the government will never allow few criminal elements to create fear in the hearts of the citizens. “During a visit to the scene to commiserate with the families of the victims and the Kuru community, the Governor who was represented by the Secretary to the Government of the State, Prof. Danladi Atu, condemned the attack, describing those behind it as cowards who have no courage to face their victims for whatever grievances they might harbour against them. “He said irrespective of the motives behind the killings, the government is treating it as a purely criminal activity and has directed security agencies to swiftly investigate, pursue, and arrest the perpetrators who must face justice. “Atu who announced a donation by the government for the treatment of those injured and the burial of the deceased said the government is injecting more equipment into the security apparatus to enhance their rapid response in crime prevention and investigation. “The Secretary to the Government thereafter held a meeting with Gwom Rwei Kuru District, Da Patrick Mandung community and youth leaders as well as the Management Committee Chairman, Jos South Local Government Area, Hon. Gideon Danderen, who all appreciated the government for its quick intervention and visit, promising to intensify intelligence gathering and fully cooperate with security agencies in unravelling those behind the killings. “They said despite the ugly incident, the spirit of the people will never be broken and their hospitality and tolerance will not change as they remain a peaceful community who embrace all people irrespective of their backgrounds and harbour no grudge against anyone.”