THE Chief Jude Okeke-led faction of the All Progressive Grand Alliance, has expressed fears that the Independent National Electoral Commission may exclude the party from the November 6, 2021 Anambra Governorship Election should the party’s internal squabbles persist. The factional APGA Publicity Secretary, Ikechukwu Chukwunyere, stated this at a press conference, in Abuja, on Monday. He accused the Chief Victor Oye-led faction of the party of refusing to submit the statutory 21 days’ notice for the proposed Special Ward Congress to INEC. Specifically, Chukwunyere alleged that the Oye-led faction failed to notify INEC on the plan to hold ward congresses ahead of the governorship poll within the stipulated period as contained in Section 85 of the Electoral Act. Chukwunyere, who distributed copies of the INEC letter confirming the non-receipt of APGA’s 21 days notification, said the electoral umpire had communicated its position on the matter to the Okeke’s faction in two separate letters. In one of the letters, obtained by our correspondent, the commission addressed his position to the principal counsel of a law firm, Omas and Partners, who had earlier written and asked for the information while relying on the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act. The letter dated June 18, 2021 which was signed by the Secretary to the Commission, Rose Oriaran-Anthony, read, “This is to inform you that the commission did not receive the statutory 21 days’ notice for the nomination of APGA Anambra State governorship candidate from Victor Oye- led APGA.” The second letter, also signed by Oriaran-Anthony, and addressed to the National Chairman of APGA read, “Please refer to your letter dated June 16, 2021 forwarding the list of delegates for the nomination of APGA’s Governorship Candidate in the forthcoming Anambra State Governorship Election. “This is to notify you that the records of the Commission indicates that APGA did not duly notify the Commission of the date of the Congress where the ad hoc delegates were elected as required by Section 85 of the Electoral Act 2010 (As Amended) “Accordingly, the Commission is unable to confirm if the Ad hoc Delegates list submitted by your party is the outcome of a democratic process as required by Section 87(7) of the Electoral Act 2010 (As Amended).” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com