The Imo State Police Command, on Wednesday, disclosed that it had arrested members of a syndicate, who allegedly burnt down the country home of the state governor, Hope Uzodimma. The command in a statement issued by its spokesperson, Bala Elkana, said it equally arrested a native doctor, who prepared charms and concoctions for them. The statement said the suspects confessed to being members of the Eastern Security Network, which is linked to the Indigenous People of Biafra. The statement read in part, “On Tuesday, June 8, 2021, around 4.30pm, tactical teams of the command, through diligent and painstaking investigation, stormed Ukwuorji, Mbaitoli Local Government Area, along the Owerri-Onitsha Road, and arrested one Ezeugo Ordu, 65, a native of Ubachima, Omuma, Oru West LGA. “He confessed to be a member of IPOB/ESN and made useful statements to the police as regards the recent attacks on police stations as well as the residence of Governor Hope Uzodimma. “He also led operatives of the command to the IPOB/ESN camp in a bush close to the Njaba River. Nine persons were arrested at the criminal hideout, while planning another attack; assorted charms were recovered from them. “However, two out of the nine arrested in the hideout, Chinedu Nwakaire, aka One Door, 48, and Uzoamaka Ugoanyanwu, 40, their native doctor, were identified to be among the hoodlums, who attacked the private residence of Governor Hope Uzodimma and also some police stations; they confessed to the crime and also stated their roles during the operations. “The CP used the opportunity to reiterate the call on members of the IPOB/ESN, or any other criminal syndicate operating in the state, especially those who stole police arms and ammunition, to voluntarily surrender themselves to enable them get soft landing, or they will be arrested and face the full wrath of the law as the command will do everything possible to rid Imo State of crime and criminality.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com