Last week, leading fast-food brand, KFC Nigeria, opened its doors to the city of Port Harcourt at The Vineyard Shopping Centre – 88, Woji Road, New GRA. The new location is the latest in a long chain of KFC’s customer-driven restaurants. KFC Nigeria began its operations in Lagos, Nigeria in December 2009; and has since been fulfilling its promise of delivering delicious meals to the giant of Africa through rapid expansion to every geopolitical zone. In the last few years, KFC has gone from just a few restaurants in Lagos to several across Nigeria; and with the opening of this latest restaurant, has now made its home in the heart of the Niger Delta. This clearly demonstrates the brand’s unspoken creed: every Nigerian deserves a taste of the Colonel’s delicious chicken.  All crunchers within Port Harcourt and its environs will now be able to enjoy Colonel’s special recipes and special offerings all day, every day – at their regular convenience. As with all other KFC restaurants, the Port Harcourt brand builds on familiar offerings, including its 5-in-1, Streetwise, and Yamilicious meals, elevating fast food into a truly extraordinary experience for people, families, and friends. KFC Port Harcourt will carry on the Brand’s proud tradition of operating great restaurants over many years, with longstanding excellence evident in everything that is served. The Port Harcourt restaurant affords KFC the opportunity to serve even more Nigerians with the same quality and varieties of classic and appetizing KFC meals (all prepared fresh daily and directly on the premises). All crunchers within Port Harcourt and its environs will now be able to enjoy Colonel’s special recipes and special offerings all day, every day – at their regular convenience. As with all other KFC restaurants, the Port Harcourt brand builds on familiar offerings, including its 5-in-1, Streetwise, and Yamilicious meals, elevating fast food into a truly extraordinary experience for people, families, and friends. KFC Port Harcourt will carry on the Brand’s proud tradition of operating great restaurants over many years, with longstanding excellence evident in everything that is served.  The Port Harcourt restaurant affords KFC the opportunity to serve even more Nigerians with the same quality and varieties of classic and appetizing KFC meals (all prepared fresh daily and directly on the premises). Customers within Port Harcourt and environs can now enjoy the Colonel’s special recipes via dine-in, take-away and delivery, at The Vineyard Shopping Centre – 88, Woji Road, New GRA.