Being born in China as a girl or residing within the Chinese territories is indicative of a part of crossing life’s hurdle. Though the Chinese Communist Party crows about great economic growth in the fields of technologies and military, ministers in Beijing fail to build friendly relations with states and neighbours and the art of cultural values that bind men and women in a society and treat them as equal. Although the Chinese Constitution ensures gender equality, discrimination remains widespread. The government has no intention of doing anything about poor female political representation especial after female leadership in Hong Kong and Taiwan. Carrie Lam was Hong Kong’s first female leader. In Taiwan, Tsai Ing-Wen was elected as the first female president in 2016. Also, neighbouring countries like India, Nepal, Thailand, Myanmar, Singapore and others have had female leaders and presidents. The CCP is just doing talks to appear as a prominent global leader. Though men and women may excel in corporate, female politicians remain a rare breed in China. Also, with unpredicted crackdown on emerging female politicians and activists, China is extinguishing the nascent feminist movement. The presence of “strong son desire”, due to years long One Child Policy and the resulting uneven gains, imbalanced political representation and pronounced wage gaps have rigid gender roles for women in China and seeing and treating them as second-class citizens with purpose to bear and feed child. These discriminatory policies do not only part between men and women but also between Han women and Non-Han women. Prior to 2015, abolishment of the “One Child Policy” for the Han women meant a series of sex selective abortions, sexual assault and pressure to bear a son, granting the family a way to continue its name and a soldier to the Chinese Military. In China, one in every 10 new born girl becomes a missing girl and the disappearance rate remains about 10% until the girls turn seven years old. They are deprived of their basic rights, healthcare and nutrition and pure educational opportunities because of their gender. In the gender ration at birth assessment in the health category, China ranks last out of 145 countries. Also, in the last centuries, estimations indicate that 53,249,000 million women were missing, a figure equivalent to the population of Canada. Yaqiu Wang, China Researcher at Human Rights Watch, stated, “The Chinese government claims it’s committed to gender equality in employment, but even its own hiring practices are still deeply discriminatory.”  According to the Human Rights Watch, “for the Chinese government’s 2020 national civil service job, 11 per cent of the postings specify a preference or requirement for men which was 19 per cent in 2018-2019 and 13 per cent in 2017. As per World Economic Forum, China’s Gender Parity Ranking fell in 2019 for the 11th consecutive year, leaving China in the 106th place out of the 153 countries. The College Graduate Starting Wages survey (2015) pointed that it takes 3.7 extra months for a woman to earn what male graduates earn in one year. Also, after the end of the One-Child policy in China in 2015, working women have increasingly faced pregnancy-related discrimination. A number of lawsuits and arbitrations against employs have been filed who dismissed or demoted women or cut their pay after they become pregnant. Women’s personal safety at home is also challenged. More than 30% of married women in China are subjected to domestic violence. This is only the tip of the ice berg. Uyghur women genocide is an ongoing series of human rights abuse perpetrated by the government of China. The CCP targeting Uyghur Muslim women in Xinjiang is beyond the definition of heinous crimes. In the process of cultivating Han population uniformity, the CCP hands are filled with blood. Imposing the two-Child policy in 1979 on the Uyghur Muslim instead of two led to massive protests. When repressed, rules emerged with fines of Rs. 2,000 yums to Rs, 6,000 yums on violation of the Child Policy and the child to be separated from the family. After electing President Xinjiang in 2014, demographic genocides of the Uyghur were restarted by the CCP with full vigour. Xinjiang Party stressed on implementation of the family of planning regulations as per Article 15 of Chapter 3 of the Xinjing Uygur Autonomous region to stabilise birth rates. Though China abolished the One Child Policy in 2105, it kept a check on Uyghur women under its so-called initiative “re-educational camps” and led forced cohabitation, co-sleeping, rape, forced sterilisation of women, abortions, implantation of compensative devices, forced medication to stop menstrual cycle and commencement of forced re-education camps of Uyghur women. Uyghurs made up 75% of the region’s population in 1945, but make up only about 45 per cent today. With this approach towards women, Chinese men and the CCP will be doomed for eternity. Dr Chin Tsong, Virginia, United States Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com