The acting Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party in Anambra State, Chukwudi Umeaba, has annulled the governorship ward congresses of the party in the state. Umeaba, who was recently reinstated by an Abuja Federal High Court as the state acting caretaker committee chairman of the party, announced the annulment on Saturday at a press conference in Awka, the state capital. The party’s factional state executive committee led by Chief Ndubuisi Nwobu held ward congresses on Friday to produce its governorship candidate for the primary election on June 26. But Umuaba at the press briefing described the exercise as void, stating that the National Executive Council of the party would give a new date for the conduct of congresses. He said, “I hereby suspend the ward congresses of June 9 to elect a three-man Adhoc committee for the governorship primary. “I will contact the NEC of our great party to give me a new date for the ward congresses that will elect the three-man Adhoc committee for the governorship primary.” He urged the party members to remain calm and look forward to new developments that would ensure the growth of the party in the state. He said the party’s primary election would go on as planned, and would not be truncated by the change in leadership. A chieftain of the party, Samuel Anyakorah, who instituted the case that sacked the Nwobu-led exco, described the Umeaba-led party as the authentic leadership of the party, having been unjustly removed in 2017. He said, “I was the one who dragged the party to court because of that unjust act. We wrote to the then national vice chairman of South-East, Mr Austin Umahi and even to His Excellency Uche Secondus, but they ignored us.’’ “That was why we went to court, and thank God today, the authentic leadership of the party has been restored. You can see how happy everybody is. We hope that the party will move on now.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com