•Families lose patience over rescue efforts Seemingly in deference to the state motto of Florida, United States—“In God We Trust”—the loved ones of more than 150 missing residents of a 12-storey apartment building in the state that collapsed on Thursday united in hope that the ongoing rescue efforts would be fruitful. But for a moment on Saturday, that hope seemed to fade as a smouldering fire hampered rescue efforts and officials said they had not located any signs of life in the mountain of debris. The number of people unaccounted for remained constant throughout the day, meaning rescuers had not found any bodies or survivors. The 40-year-old high rise collapsed without warning around 1.30 am (local time) on Thursday as most residents slept. The cause remains a mystery. Video captured by a security camera showed an entire side of the building suddenly folding in two sections, one after the other, raising clouds of dust. Local officials confirmed that the building had more than 130 units, about 80 of which were occupied. Roughly half appeared to have collapsed. The children of Judy Spiegel, a woman who is still missing after a condominium collapsed in Surfside, Florida, who spoke to CNN about their mother and the pain their family is enduring while search and rescue efforts continue at the site. Spiegel’s teary-eyed daughter, Rachel, said, “My mum is just the best person in the world. She is so caring and loving. She calls my kids. Obviously, I was dealing with my own stuff but I also have to worry about my daughter. I have two daughters but one’s too little to really know or understand. “My daughter keeps asking. We told her last night that my mum is missing and we can’t find her, and she told me, ‘Well, she’s really good at playing hide and seek. So, she’s probably hiding in her house. Can I go there with you? I know where she hides.’” Officials said they too still harboured hope that some of the 159 people still unaccounted for might be found alive but acknowledged that a fire somewhere beneath the rubble was slowing rescue teams, filling the area with smoke and frustrating firefighters’ efforts to locate the source. Fire Chief Alan Cominsky said, “The biggest thing now is hope. That’s what’s driving us. It’s an extremely difficult situation.” Despite around-the-clock work at the site in Surfside, a shore town near Miami, search-and-rescue teams had not found any additional survivors as of Saturday morning, the Mayor of Miami-Dade County, Danielle Levine Cava, said at a press briefing. The death toll, officially at four, was certain to rise, according to Reuters, with each floor of the condominium stacked atop another like pancakes. Aided by dogs, cameras, sonar and heavy equipment, rescuers looked for any spaces that may have formed in the debris, leaving possible survivors air to breathe. In a related development, a newly released 2018 report showed that an engineer found evidence of major structural damage beneath the pool deck and “concrete deterioration” in the underground parking garage of the high-rise, three years before it collapsed on Thursday. The engineer’s 2018 report, released by town officials, was produced for the condominium board in preparation for a major repair project set to get underway this year. It was not immediately clear whether the damage described in the report was in any way connected with the building’s collapse. Levine Cava said officials had not been aware of the report, while the Vice Mayor, Tina Paul, called the structural issue described in the document “very alarming” in an email on Saturday morning. The engineer, Frank Morabito, warned that the waterproofing installed below the pool deck had failed due to a major error in design. Morabito wrote, “The failed waterproofing is causing major structural damage to the concrete structural slab below this area. Failure to replace the waterproofing in the near future will cause the extent of the concrete deterioration to expand exponentially.” In addition, he said concrete columns, beams and walls in the garage were showing “abundant cracking,” including areas underneath the pool with “exposed, deteriorating rebar.” Morabito could not be reached for comment. His firm submitted an 84-page document to the town in April detailing a “40-year building repair and restoration” plan for the Champlain Towers South condominium, which was built in 1981. Surfside Commissioner, Charles Kesl, told Reuters that an email from a building resident in April said the engineering firm, Morabito Consultants, had been hired to do the building’s recertification. The recertification application, due this year, had not yet been formally submitted, Kesl said. Kesl said the email, which he declined to share, mentioned the condominium was borrowing $15m for repairs on balcony railings and repairs that were unclear. “But $15m isn’t crazy extraordinary,” he said, noting that the condominium may have also been using reserves. The building was preparing to go through recertification this year, a safety requirement for buildings that reach 40 years of age in Florida. The mayor said the county would audit all buildings more than 40 years old within the next 30 days to ensure they have all been recertified. Governor Ron DeSantis said officials were weighing whether to evacuate the condominium’s sister building, which was constructed at the same time by the same developer. Satellite data from the 1990s showed the building was sinking between one and three millimetres per year, while surrounding buildings were stable, according to Florida International University professor Shimon Wdowinski. He said the data could suggest a structural compromise within the building, though it could also have signalled the building was settling into the soil. While local officials provided aid and comfort to the families, such as hotel rooms and food, search-and-rescue specialists worked on the disaster site on a rotation, with a limited number allowed at any one time to prevent further collapse. Teams from Mexico and Israel arrived to help relieve the locally based crews, many of whom have also travelled to disaster sites around the world. Harrowing escape Dozens of people were gathered at a reunification site at the Surfside Community Centre—a hectic scene with volunteers running around and people hugging to console one another. A survivor, Janette Aguero, her husband and her two teenage children had been staying in her mother-in-law’s apartment for vacation this week. Around 1.20 am on Thursday, she was startled by what felt like an earthquake, she said. Her family ran down the stairwell to escape. Aguero said, “A million things raced through my mind. I grabbed the kids and our phones. That was the only thing we could take because everyone was telling us we had to get out. The room where my children slept is only 15 feet away from the section that collapsed.” Chief of Operations, Miami-Dade Fire Rescue, Ray Jadallah, stated that rescuers had heard sounds in the rubble on Friday night, which he said could have been falling debris or people tapping. Officials did not report hearing more of those sounds during the day. However, US President Joe Biden approved an emergency declaration in the state of Florida and ordered federal assistance to supplement state and local response efforts, sending Federal Emergency Management Agency officials to the scene. “Our hearts go out to them,” Biden said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com