Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, has expressed shock that the Nigeria Football Federation has yet to sanction those that attacked and injured Edo Insurance players towards the end of their NPFL tie against Remo Stars in Ikenne, Ogun State on June 6. Several Insurance players and officials sustained varying degrees of injuries after fans of Remo Stars invaded the pitch, attacked them following their goalless draw in Ikenne, with the visitors jumping fences and running long distances to safety. Obaseki, his deputy,  Philip Shaibu, and Chief of Staff to the Governor, Osaigbovo Iyoha, at the weekend, visited the injured players at the Central Hospital, Benin City. “This is very barbaric and not in the spirit of sportsmanship. You can’t injure your colleagues like this in a tournament. Look at the way Insurance players were wounded because they went to play in a league match with Remo in Ogun State,” Obaseki said. “I am really shocked and very disappointed that more than a week since the incident happened, the managers of the league have not come out to punish those that perpetrated this dastardly act. “For now, we can’t continue with the league; we will suspend the participation of Edo Insurance in the league until NFF takes the appropriate sanctions against those who injured our players and also take interest in treating our players. We want to see that the right things are done in the league. This is the third time I understand Insurance players have been attacked.” The Governor said his administration would take legal action against Remo for the “dastardly act”, adding, “We have to take legal action against those that perpetrated this act. We will not continue with the league until NFF takes appropriate action. Our players are covered by our insurance scheme in the state.” On his part, Permanent Secretary, Edo State Hospital Management Board, Dr. Izilien Asogun, said, “Our players were freely attacked and wounded as the security could not check the attack; it was a mob action. “Ten of them were critically injured and hospitalised. Five players, two coaches, a team manager and two supporters were affected. Football is a friendly game, not war. Thank God they survived the mob attack.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com