“The metering industry is the ATM of the power sector. Once the subsector is intact, the survival of all power generation initiatives is assured.” – Ifeanyi Okeke (Holley Metering), Lagos, June 17, 2021. There are many reasons why renewable energy has yet to penetrate the Nigerian society, but the simplest of them is the fact that the country’s power sector is still wobbling forward without universal consumer metering. It is high time we connected the dots because even energy efficiency – the most basic of green power – cannot happen if consumers are still on estimated billing. Interestingly, the metering sub-sector has many other deliverables, both for the government and for the people. It creates employment and wealth, with technology transfer to boot. Last weekend, manufacturers of electricity meters under the aegis of Meter Assets Providers, after their meeting in Lagos, alerted Nigerians of the factors militating against their work. It will be recalled that the Federal Government in 2018 introduced the Meter Assets Regulations whereby private companies were invited to help the power distribution companies provide electricity meters for the Nigerian consumers. The aim was to end the universally condemned estimated billing. Then later, by 2020, the government followed up the drive with the National Mass Metering Programme, an initiative to bridge the metering gap in the country by making prepaid meters available to electricity consumers for free. The NMMP aims to meter the entire population by 2023. But, with what the meter providers have just revealed over the weekend, the 2023 Vision may become just another déjà vu. The regulatory framework on Meter Asset Provider (Regulation) issued by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission came into effect on March 8, 2018 and became enforceable on April 3, 2018. The regulation seeks to encourage the development of independent and competitive meter services, eliminate estimated billing practices, attract private investment for the provision of metering services, close the metering gap through accelerated meter roll out, and ultimately enhance revenue generation and improved customer service in the Nigerian electricity supply industry. Distribution companies were mandated to appoint or contract meter asset providers who would have the responsibility of providing metering services which may also include meter financing, procurement, supply, installation, maintenance and replacement. This is to enable the DISCOs focus on their core business which is the distribution of power while meeting their metering target through alliance with third party meter assets providers. In order to promote local content development, the MAPs are required to source a minimum of 30% of their contracted metering volumes from local meter manufacturing companies. This implies that at least 30% of the metering requirements of the national electricity supply industry will be met by the Nigerian domestic market. And this is where it gets interesting. Indigenous entrepreneurs and business entities have leveraged the MAPs regulation to elevate the country’s investment and job-creation ecosystem. One of the meter asset providers who spoke to journalists on the side-lines of the meeting, Ifeanyi Okeke, Executive Vice Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of Holley Metering Ltd and Celdon Group, said that his company had already set up two prepaid meter manufacturing plants in the country, where jobs have been created and foreign technology experts are on hand to transfer capacity to indigenous operators. To me, this is a value that can never be quantified in naira and kobo. While commending the Central Bank of Nigeria for funding the NMMP in order to close the metering gap in the country; he explained that the way to catalyse national economic revival and industrialisation was not only to make power available to the masses, but also to ensure that power produced is measured so that people could only appropriately pay for what they consume. “Any government that gets power right, gets the economy right. All over the world, power is a very strategic sector, but if power is not measured, how can the sector be successful? I am driven by a passion to help make this impact on the economy by supporting the government and reducing the burden on Nigerians who suffer under estimated billing,” Okeke said. I agree that the Nigeria’s power sector is suffering from a huge metering gap and closing this gap will definitely improve revenue collection, transparency, payment discipline, as well as improve customer satisfaction in the industry – both green and brown. I have a firsthand experience in the damage this huge lacuna has done to the renewable energy industry. Many years ago, in an international conference oversees, I met a big player in the green power supply business. When I asked him why he had not thought about coming to invest in Nigeria, he shook his head sadly, and said, “I am not sure of your Feed-in Tariff… Not sure at all. In fact, I am afraid it will take a long time for us to look at your country. I hear you guys are not even metered!” Metering infrastructure always features in policies that support greater investment in and adoption of renewable energy technologies. Let us look at two of such policy structures, Feed-in Tariffs and Net metering. Net metering enables residential or commercial customers who generate their own renewable electricity (e.g solar photovoltaic) to receive compensation for the electricity they generate. Net metering rules require electric utilities in the area to ensure that customers’ electric meters accurately track how much electricity is used on site or returned to the electric grid. When electricity generated on site is not used, it is returned to the grid; when on site generation is not sufficient to meet the customer’s needs, the customer uses electricity from the grid. In effect, excess electricity is returned to the customer at a later time when they otherwise would have paid for it. Feed-In Tariffs encourage the development of renewable energy by obligating electric utilities to pay pre-established above-market rates for renewable power fed onto the grid. These tariffs, which may vary depending on the type of resource used, provide renewable generators with a set stream of income from their projects. These features are now common in the developed world, and their citizens enjoy various benefits from green power. It is germane to look at some of the demands of the meter assets providers presented to Nigerians last weekend. The first one is the upward review of the current price of prepaid meter by NERC in view of rising inflation, continued upward movement of foreign exchange rates, associated increases in custom costs, increase in container freight costs, and the disruptions in the international supply chain, leading to a global increase in the prices of raw materials and components for the manufacture of prepaid meters. The second demand is that the Central Bank of Nigeria guarantee access to foreign exchange to local manufacturers and assemblers of electricity meters for the procurement of parts and accessories. The third demand is the removal of bottlenecks in the customs clearing process. The fourth is the change in the modalities for the implementation of the presidential waiver of the thirty 35% levy on fully built prepaid meters and extension up to December 2022. The most important demand in my opinion is the call for a combined stakeholders’ meeting: NERC, Federal Ministry of Power, Office of the Vice President, CBN, Federal Ministry of Finance, Federal Ministry of Trade and Industry, Customs, NEMSA, DisCos and the MAP/Meter Manufacturers and Assemblers to engage on the key issues in the sub-sector. However, the meter assets providers promised that there will be corresponding downward review of meter prices when there is a downward movement in foreign exchange rates and other cost factors. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com