The Federal High Court in Lagos has adjourned till September 29 the bankruptcy suit filed by Ecobank Nigeria Limited to recover an alleged debt of N4.1bn from the Chairman of Honeywell Group, Dr Oba Otudeko. The matter, which was scheduled for Wednesday, could not go on as the presiding judge, Justice Akintayo Aluko, did not sit. The court registrar gave the party September 29, 2021, as return date. In the suit, which was filed in 2015, Ecobank claimed that Otudeko was indebted to it following the alleged failure of his three firms – Honeywell Flour Mills Plc; Siloam Global Services Limited; and Anchorage Leisures Limited – to liquidate a loan granted them by the bank. The bank claimed that Otudeko personally guaranteed the loan obtained by his firms. It is, therefore, seeking “a receiving order against  estate, funds, investment, shares or other interest of the debtor principally in Siloam Global Services Limited and in Honeywell Group Limited; Honeywell Flour Mills Plc; Anchorage Leisures Limited; Honeywell Oil and Gas Limited; Uraja Real Estate Limited; Broadview Engineering Limited; Uraja Power Solutions Limited; Honeywell Energy Resources Limited; Hudson Power Limited; Pivot Engineering Limited and Pavillion Technology Limited, which interest is held either directly or through the said Siloam Global Services Limited and/or in any other company within and outside Nigeria.” The bank also prayed the court to grant it leave to “appropriate or otherwise utilise the investments, shares or other interests of the debtor (Otudeko) in all the companies listed above and in any other company/corporate entity in Nigeria or outside Nigeria in partial or full satisfaction of the debt due.” Ecobank prayed the court to command the businessman to immediately avail the bank his “statement of affairs, statement of net worth and other credible financial details requisite and in furtherance to the Bankruptcy Act.” But Otudeko filed a preliminary objection, urging the court to either dismiss the suit or stay proceedings “in deference to arbitration.” He described the suit as an abuse of court processes, contending that it was filed in gross violation of Section 7(1)(a) of the Bankruptcy (Proceedings) Rules Cap B2, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2010. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com