The poor condition of the Lagos-Badagry Expressway is discouraging local and international tourists from visiting Badagry thereby killing the toursim potential of the ancient town, Afeez Hanafi reports For months, I longed to visit historical sites in Badagry, Nigeria’s foremost tourism destination far-flung Lagos. I always looked forward to seeing monuments and relics of the transatlantic slave trade spanning 16th to 19th centuries. Those are signs of Nigeria’s history millions of people within and outside the country are curious to see. Sometime in February, I went online to read up on tourist attractions in the ancient town. I stumbled on the line of a tour guide, Anago Osho, and quickly phoned him for enquiries. We agreed on N8,000 entry fees even though he made me realise he charges as much as N15,000 including boat fares to Gberefu Island, well known as The Point of No Return, where Europeans shipped off enslaved Africans across the Atlantic Ocean to Americas. Osho requested that I choose a weekday when he would have enough time to take me round some historical sites excluding The Point of No Return. For weeks on end, I procrastinated over the tour. Each time I decided to set out, I was held back by the thought of the gruelling long journey on the largely decrepit Lagos-Badagry Expressway, Nigeria’s section of Trans-West African Coastal highway linking 12 West African coastal nations. On Tuesday, May 18, I finally conquered my worry. At 7am, I informed Osho I was on my way. I dreaded driving for two reasons: damage the lumpy road might do to my car and terrible traffic snarls Lagos is notorious for. I ordered a ride-hailing cab to Badagry Roundabout from one corner of my room in Ojodu. It was not long before a driver identified only as Sheriff reached out to me via the message box on the app. “Good morning,” he wrote.  “Good morning,” I replied abruptly. “Where are you going?” He asked, trying to verify the order. “Badagry Roundabout,” I confirmed to him. “Ok, no,” he said curtly and went offline. I called the driver to find out why he turned down the trip outright without a reason. Predictably, his excuses were that “the road is bad” and he might not get an order on a return journey. Sheriff said frankly that he would pick me only if I was ready for a N12,000 offline deal, about N6,000 higher than the N5,770-N7,570 fare charged online. After haggling, he billed me N10,000 which was way beyond my budget. I tried out another cab-hailing app and in no time, a driver’s name popped up with a fare tag of N6,800-8,300. The radar indicated that Olabisi Samuel would arrive at the pick-up point in four minutes with a stern warning, “Don’t keep your driver waiting!” I was excited. But suddenly the driver’s name changed to one Thompson. “What could have happened? Perhaps Samuel was busy or unwilling to risk his car along the pothole-laden expressway like me,” I imagined. I monitored keenly as the map showed Thompson driving towards my residence in a Toyota Corolla verso. But just a minute to the arrival time, I got another shock: “All drivers are busy,” the message read crisply, asking me to “search again in a while or select another type of ride.” I was running late and couldn’t afford to embark on another potentially futile search. I needed to leave home immediately if I must return that day as I didn’t plan to sleep over in Badagry. I dashed out without further delay to board commercial buses. No sooner had our bus left Berger for Mile 2 at exactly 7.43am than the bottlenecks began to manifest. About two kilometres into the journey, we ran into gridlock at the Lagos State Accident and Emergency Centre, Tollgate. It took 45 minutes before the traffic eased off at Ogudu, some seven-kilometre distance from the point it started. A few minutes to its final destination, the bus driver, who appears to be in his early 60s, pulled up at Cele bus stop. His conductor asked us to disembark and led us to another bus unperturbed by slurs of angry passengers. I arrived at Mile 2 at exactly 9.20am spending one hour 37 minutes – almost half of which was consumed by traffic. There was chaos almost immediately after our bus left Mile 2 for Badagry Roundabout at 9.30am. A bus driving against traffic nearly collided with ours and it led to a vitriolic exchange between the two drivers. As we journeyed through, sight of debris, mainly heaps of plastic bottles dotting the highway, and commercial motorcycle riders operating in clusters was ubiquitous. The Lagos-Badagry Expressway began to rear its ugly head when our vehicle bumped into potholes at Volkswagen bus stop and got trapped in long traffic afterwards. Time was 9.48am. A co-passenger beside me in the front seat craned his neck to catch a glimpse of the traffic flow but ended with a long hiss after noticing a line of vehicles. A passenger at the back complained of how he expended two hours within the axis some weeks back en route to Mile 2. Luckily, we spent 23 minutes covering less than a kilometre to Iyana Iba junction, close to the Lagos State University campus. The bumpy ride continued all through the LASU axis where construction work was ongoing at different sections of the expressway. We had a pleasurable ride from Iba to Agbara from where another rigorous manoeuvring started. Traffic moved at a snail’s pace as vehicles meandered through gaping holes. At intervals, our driver, a stout-looking man simply called Emeka, slowed down to weigh the risks of navigating through some bad portions. He complained bitterly of how he coughs up a substantial amount every week to fix his vehicle. He is either fixing the axles, absorbers or tyres. “Why is this road taking forever to rehabilitate?” One angry passenger thundered. “It’s been over 10 years now since the reconstruction started,” another lamented before Emeka joined the conversation. “The government is not serious about it. I doubt if they pass through this road at all,” he declared. “Rich people use choppers anytime they visit Badagry,” the middle-aged man sharing the front seat with me remarked. “This is an international road for God’s sake. They grade the potholes with sand every year but once the rain season starts, it (the sand) washes away,” he added, sounding furious. The reconstruction of the expressway from four lanes to 10 lanes was initiated in 2009 during the former Lagos State Governor Babatunde Fashola’s administration to ease traffic in the area and upgrade the infrastructure. Though a federal road, the project is being jointly executed by the state and the federal governments. More than 11 years after the project which includes a light rail line began, only limited portions of the road had been completed due to poor funding. In December 2020 the Federal Controller of Works in Lagos, Mr Olukayode Popoola, told the News Agency of Nigeria that section three of the project between Agbara and Badagry was gaining attention due to increased funding. He said in the 2020 budget, the project had about N4.5bn from Sukuk funding apart from N1bn budgetary allocation, adding that the contractor was slowed down by COVID-19 pandemic but was back to site. But a month earlier, in November, the state Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu while speaking at the unveiling of Hyundai Kona, Nigeria’s first locally assembled electric car, at Ojo along the expressway, attributed the delay to the government’s plan to build a first-class infrastructure that people would be proud of when completed. “We are doing a complete rebuild of the road, with bridges and interchanges. We are building a road that will last for 30 to 40 years for you. And because we know that this is an international gateway, it does not deserve anything less. We are building a first-class road infrastructure that all of you would be proud of,” the governor had said. During an inspection tour of the road projects in Lagos on April 3, Fashola, who is now Minister of Works and Housing, assured the public that the expressway was not abandoned but on the 2021 Sukuk funding priority list. He said that major drainage works were ongoing to upgrade the highway from its old status to ensure durable construction. The minister stated, “Lagos-Badagry Expressway is the real challenge. Again it is funding. We owe the contractor. That is why I said if we can expand the Sukuk this year, we are going to look at a few more roads to add into it. If we succeed, Lagos-Badagry Expressway is one of the top roads we are pencilling down for the Sukuk in 2021. If that happens, then the contractor will do his work.” While receiving the House of Representatives Committee on Works during a courtesy visit to the Lagos House, Ikeja, on Monday, Sanwo-Olu urged the Federal Government to provide adequate funding for the construction of the Lagos-Badagry Expressway, saying his administration had worked on 18 kilometres of the highway. He said, “Lagos-Badagry Expressway is one that I am aware of that doesn’t have sufficient funding. This is an international gateway. We heard that Ghana, the Republic of Benin and Togo have done their own; it is a trans-West African corridor which five countries pass through. But it is only the Nigerian part that has not been fully fixed, which is from the Seme border into Lagos and to the port.” Except for a two-kilometre smooth ride down to Mowo, a suburb of Badagry, the road is an eyesore from Agbara to our destination. The 75-kilometre journey from Ojodu-Berger terminated at 11.55am at Badagry Roundabout where Osho, my tour guide, had been waiting impatiently to receive me. We first went to an eatery, spending about 15 minutes to finalise the modalities of the tour, including payment. A tour to Brazilian Barracoon The tour began at Brazilian Barracoon, a museum owned by the late Seriki Williams Abass, a slave merchant and paramount ruler who died in 1919. Osho quickly regaled me with how Abass was enslaved for years by one Williams – a European whose name the monarch adopted – and later regained his freedom on condition that he would be assisting his master to buy slaves. A barracoon is a cell where slaves were kept while waiting for the arrival of the European ships at the Point of No Return. Brazilian Barracoon contains several dingy rooms with tiny burglar-proof windows that stifled ventilation and prevented slaves from escaping. “Forty slaves were kept in a room. Women were kept in separate rooms with their children,” Osho, the family’s historian, disclosed as he led me round the museum. He showed me a bottle of gin and a ceramic bowl Europeans gave middlemen like Abass in exchange for 10 human beings each. It was a trade by barter system whereby the slave masters solely determined the value of slaves, Osho stated. While we were at one of the oldest wells in Nigeria dug by slaves on the premises in 1847, I checked my time anxiously. It was already 1.30pm and there were more historical sites to visit. My mind raced as I thought of a nightmarish journey back home. “When tourists visit Badagry, they are always anxious to go back. Instead of enjoying the tour, the trouble they will go through on the expressway when returning home is what is in their minds,” Osho, who noticed my countenance, confirmed. His statement opened a can of worms as he lamented how the poor state of the road had dealt a huge blow to the tourism industry in Badagry. He told of how local and international patronage had diminished drastically in recent years due to the dilapidated highway. “The expressway has really discouraged a lot of tourists from coming here. It is recently that few people who are brave enough come by boats. Many people have a phobia for water. “In the last Eid-el-fitr holiday, we hardly had five tourists in a site in Badagry whereas before now, people would come in droves with vehicles parked everywhere,” Osho bemoaned. I later found out that Osho was echoing the grievance of a member of Lagos Assembly representing Badagry Constituency II, Setonji David. The lawmaker in a May 16 interview with NAN raised the alarm that the deplorable state of the expressway in the last six years had been killing tourism. “Badagry is a place for tourist attractions and it served that purpose when the road was good, but today, no tourist dares venture into that trip because it will end in regrets. What we have today cannot encourage anyone to go for tourism in Badagry. “Initially, the maximum time one would spend travelling on the Lagos-Badagry Expressway was 40 minutes, but now, one would spend between five hours to six hours to go through the road. This has really affected economic activities,” David had said. Cancelled bookings Joy lit up Idris Amao’s face as he saw Osho and I approaching Mobee Relics Museum where artefacts such as shackles and chains used on slaves are kept. I reckoned with his elation when he said I was the first tourist he received that day and in the last two weeks. Like Osho, he blamed the low patronage on the deplorable state of the expressway worsened by restrictions imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. “It is the poor condition of the road that scares people away from Badagry to see what we have,” Amao, the museum’s curator, remarked soberly. “Many schools had cancelled their bookings for excursions because of the road. Some schools would reach out to us for enquiries but would later say they cannot take their pupils through the road. This problem started about five years ago but COVID-19 came and worsened the situation.” Amao consequently led me into the gallery where I saw a set of heavy neck-locks usually tied round the necks of slaves arranged in a single file. “The chain was always around their necks for 18 hours every day,” Amao said as he began to show me each of the relics. “The mouth lock was fixed into a slave’s mouth to prevent them from communicating with one another while working on farms. The hand chain was used to tie two or three kids together to prevent them from disturbing their parents while working on the farm,” he explained. I was also shown a piece of iron with which European slave masters inscribed their names on captives after the object was heated, a bowl where slaves dipped their mouths to drink after returning from farms, and a cannon gun – a cylinder-like weapon that fired projectiles using the explosive pressure of gunpowder. “Europeans gave out a small cannon gun in exchange for 40 human beings while a big one exchanged for 100,” Amao concluded. Drop in patronage The frustration etched on Rev. Dainel Hudonu’s face was palpable. A supervisor and tour guide at the first storey building in Nigeria, he relived how the terrible condition of the expressway had paralysed tourism at the national heritage site. Completed in 1845, the monument comprising six bed rooms, two living rooms and four stores, birthed Christianity in Nigeria. He stated, “The road has affected tourism in many ways. Our major visitors are schools on excursion and foreigners. Many of them have stopped coming because of the bad road. “Not long ago, a school from Abeokuta (Ogun State) cancelled their trip. They left Abeokuta around 6am but they did not get to Badagry at 3pm. They had to return home because they wouldn’t have enough time for the tour and they didn’t plan to sleep over in a hotel. “We appeal to the government to speed up the reconstruction of the road so that tourism in Badagry can boom again. About seven years ago, between 5,000-7,000 tourists visited this monument annually. Now, we hardly record 200 people in a year.” Among others, Hudonu showed me frames of Agia Tree, where Christianity was first introduced in 1842 by Reverend Thomas Freeman, the first western education teacher in the first primary school in Nigeria named Nursery of Infant Church located at the site. I was also shown Missionary Cemetery where 230 missionaries were buried, Bishop Ajayi Crowther Bible’s store, his personal room, where he reportedly translated Bible from English to Yoruba and the first missionary well, the only drinkable water in the town then dug in 1842 and later renamed Miracle Well. Massive loss Time was 3.40pm when Osho and I got to the Badagry Heritage Museum managed by the Lagos State Government. It is said to be the oldest administrative block in Nigeria built in 1863 during the British colonial era to serve as the district officer’s office. The building was vacated in 1958, two years before Nigeria’s independence, and used for different administrative purposes before it was eventually converted to a museum in 2000. “Badagry signed the slave trade abolition treaty with the British government in 1853 though it still continued illegally before it was finally abolished. The museum is seen as an attempt by the state government to recapture that history so that the heritage will not be lost,” the curator, Peter Mesewaku, said. He was willing to share the history behind each of the items in the gallery but time was fast running out. Another four-hour strenuous journey through the expressway had already filled my mind like a plague. “It is an understatement to say that the state of the road is affecting tourism in Badagry,” Mesewaku chuckled. “Accessibility is a key factor in tourism because whatever you put in a destination, if it is not accessible, it amounts to waste. Tourism is our own oil in Badagry and if you take accessibility from it, then you have taken the soul of the industry.” Mesewaku said about a decade ago, between 150,000 to 200,000 tourists both from within and outside the country visited Badagry every year. The figures roughly translated into N1.2bn-N1.6bn in revenue going by the N8,000 fees I paid or N2.050bn-N3bn at the rate of N15,000 Osho usually charges per individual. Mesewaku added, “Badagry used to be a thriving tourism destination where both local and international tourists visited frequently. But today, it’s a different story entirely. Coupled with COVID-19, the patronage has reduced drastically. We now record about 20,000 tourists annually. “I was in a vehicle with a Ghanaian tourist who visited Badagry and was returning to the airport in Ikeja. She phoned her husband and told him she would never come to Nigeria again because of the expressway. It’s an international shame.” He told of how waterways would have been a viable alternative transportation means to boost tourism if it was properly regulated, maintaining that some local commercial boats were not safe. “I use them but that decision is born out of necessity. The life jackets are not of high quality. For now, it is not attractive to use the waterway.  The boats are not covered which means if it rains, one will be soaked. It is not convenient whereas tourism is all about comfort. The rail project will help tourism a lot. It is safer than any other means of transportation and it can take more people,” the official said. Mesewaku further disclosed that many locals whose livelihoods depend on tourism in the ancient community were smarting from the impact of the poor patronage. “Tour guides, souvenir sellers, hoteliers, among others are feeling the heat because tourists are no longer coming the way they used to,” he revealed. “We hope the government will expedite action on the road and complete it soonest.” Tourism and Nigerian economy Tourism is said to be the third-largest sector in international trade, accounting for 10.4 per cent of the global gross domestic product and supporting 313 million jobs worldwide, according to a 2018 joint statement issued by the United Nations World Tourism Organisation, the World Trade Organisation, the World Travel and Tourism Council and the International Trade Centre in Geneva, Switzerland. In 2014, WTO noted that the tourism and hospitality sector was one of Africa’s greatest assets with a market worth $50bn and $203.7bn untapped market potential. Records from Knoema, world data atlas, showed that the travel and tourism sector contributed 5.1 per cent to Nigeria’s GDP in 2016 and increased to 5.4 per cent in the following year. The figure dropped by 0.4 per cent in 2018 and picked to 5.1 in 2019. Also, between 2015 and 2017, Nigeria’s international tourism receipts – expenditures by international inbound visitors – recorded consistent growth at $461,000, $1.088m and $2.615m respectively. The earnings however slumped to $1.977m in 2018 and further slid to $1.471m in 2019, according to Knoema. In a February 2021 report, Statista, one of the world’s largest statistics portals, revealed that Lagos State made a $800m direct tourism contribution to the country’s GDP in 2006, $2bn in 2016 and projected an increase to $3.4bn by 2026. The Lagos State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Gbenga Omotoso, told Sunday PUNCH that the government was making efforts to develop infrastructure on the Lagos-Badagry Expressway to boost tourism and create employment opportunities. He said, “We are bent on seeing to the completion of that road. It is an ambitious project and we have to do it because our blue line rail (from Marina to Okokomaiko) is passing through that road. The rail line will be completed by December 2022. “We are also building two jetties in Badagry to serve those who want to travel by water and about 14 new boats will soon be launched. Tourism potential of Badagry is huge. We are collaborating with private sector to give the slave trade relics in Badagry a new phase. We are also doing something about other major tourist attractions in Badagry so that youths can find jobs.” A Professor of Archaeology and Tourism Studies at Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Ifeyinwa Emejulu, lamented that the government was paying lip service to tourist attractions in Badagry and other parts of the country. “If we are serious about tourism in Nigeria, we won’t be talking about the bad road. Tourism is a viable means of diversifying the economy. We have sites that should be earning us revenue but the government is not serious about tourism,” she maintained. Small businesses suffer Femi Matthew is a boat operator who drives tourists to Gberefu Island almost on a regular basis. But he has been idle in recent times, enduring the pain of low patronage. “I used to carry a lot of people to Gberefu Island,” he said, relishing the booming days when he made brisk money from the job. There were some days I realised N40,000 taking tourists across the water to the Point of No Return. Now, I hardly make N10,000 in a month.” The Chief Executive Officer of a bar located on the Badagry waterfront, Olaide Osoba, also said that tourism activities in the community had reduced, thus affecting his business. “The expressway is bad and there is a significant reduction in patronage. Water transport should be well developed to provide a reliable alternative,” he added. For Mrs Ayobola Ogabi, who runs a restaurant on Joseph Dosuwe Street, it is a double-edged impact – dwindling customer base on one hand and high prices of food items on the other. “The road is really affecting my business. When it was relatively good, white people on tourism visits came to eat here but we no longer see them even before the pandemic. “Drivers do not want to bring goods to Badagry and they always charge high fares. They complain that their vehicles get spoiled on the road. Now prices of drinks and other food items are higher than what it is in the city,” Ogabi, who is well known as Iya Sulia, stated. As of 5.15pm, four of the six sites on my list had been covered. As much as I would have loved to visit the remaining two, dusk was fast setting in. I left Badagry at 5.25pm and took Igbo Elerin axis to beat some of the bad portions and make the journey less stressful. I got home at 9.10pm, too tired to mesmerise my family with some of the beautiful memories at the sights. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com