The Olufi of Gbongan, Osun State, His Royal Majesty, Oba Dr Adetoyese Oyeniyi, Odugbemi 1, has called on the federal and state governments to intensify measures aimed at addressing the security challenges in the country. Oyeniyi, who made the call at the formal inauguration of members of the Board of Trustees of the Old Students Association of Gbongan Community High School, said Nigeria needed a strong and reliable security framework to enjoy peace and development. The monarch commended the old students association for the employment of 10 teachers for the school to support the government’s effort, renovation of several classrooms, and the award of scholarships to 15 indigent students among others. “God is not mocked. Whatever a man soweth, he will reap. Don’t say men do not recognise you. Once heaven does, it is finished. You have played a philanthropic role in this community. Generations unborn will remember your goodwill. “I want to thank you. The family of Oloba that gave us the land to build this school has been magnanimous. I also commend and congratulate the pioneer principal, Overseer J. O. Ojeleye. That Ojeleye is alive today to witness this ceremony is a miracle,” he added. Pa Ojeleye prayed for the success of the new board, which would be led by the chairman, a member of Mr Aderemi Louis Oyedele. Oyedele, a former lecturer at the Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ago-Iwoye, and a former editorial board member of Daily Times, said the inaugurated members would meet the expectation of the association. “We are committed to excellence. The oath has been administered. We implore all members to join hands together with us to build our Alma mater. You have given us the mandate and we will not disappoint you.” Also speaking, a representative of the Oloba family, Chief Rufus Olawuni, “In 1963, when I was in modern school, leaders of thought in Gbonganland approached my father, Chief Amos Olawuni for a portion of land to build this school and he gladly released several hectares to that effect. Who knew that the seed planted that day would bring forth such fruits today? You have done well.”