The Nigerian Institution of Surveyors has called on the Federal Government to produce maps that will show the infrastructural development pattern across the country. The President, NIS, Charlesye Charles, who disclosed this at the just concluded 55th annual general meeting of the institution in Abuja, said such a map would reveal the infrastructural gaps that should be filled. He said, “Yes, so much has been achieved but as hinted earlier, so much more still needs to be done. It helps when we have maps showing us our development growth pattern and the gaps that require filling. “There must be a connection in the growth of our rail and road infrastructure, their connection to the markets, power and health; and how they all coalesce to promoting the growth of the economy, our society, national security and the environment.” Charles said the NIS had continually strived to bring the value and relevance of the profession to the country repeatedly, as the institution invited the government, private sector and the public to increase their partnership with surveyors. He said, “Nigeria has a large stock of qualified and experienced surveying, geomatics and spatial information managers to help government drive its policies and programmes to successful conclusions. “It should be remembered that no meaningful or sustainable development could be achieved without the input and involvement of surveyors.” The NIS president urged the three tiers of government to upgrade, equip and provide appropriate materials in the various offices of surveyors-general. “They are meant to be the main point of surveying and mapping information. They are supposed to be advisers to the various units on all development matters that are necessarily land based,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com