More revelations have emerged on the bandit attack on Tegina town in the Rafi Local Government area of Niger State. Residents of the town, who spoke to our reporter, disclosed that three women were raped openly by the bandits. A resident, Danjuma Aliyu, who spoke to our correspondent on the telephone, said, “One of the women had a baby in her hands, but a bandit raped her in the open. After raping her, he left with the others. Two other girls were raped the same way.” It was learnt that several people were abducted alongside the Islamiyya schoolchildren, including a former councillor of the local government area. It was learnt the ever busy Tegina town was a ghost town on Monday as everyone stayed indoors and shops remained closed. Meanwhile the Niger State Government said it would not pay ransom to the bandits, adding that it would explore other avenues to secure the release of the children. The state government, in a statement by its press secretary, Mary Barje, said it was putting in measures to ensure the safe release of Islamic schoolchildren abducted by bandits in Tegina. Giving an update on the abduction to newsmen at the Government House, Minna, the state Deputy Governor, Alhaji Ahmed Ketso, disclosed that government was on the pursuit of the bandits and efforts were being put in place to identify the bandits. Ketso said though the number of kidnapped schoolchildren was not fully ascertained, efforts by security agencies to secure their release had been intensified. He assured that strategies were in place to secure the release of the abductees the same way those of Kagara boys were released, ruling out the option of paying ransom. “We don’t pay ransom to abductors. We are trying to negotiate to see how we can bring them back safely,” he added. He said that the government has made contact with some of the identified parents of the kidnapped children, assuring them of their safe return. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com