Analysts have stated that the global oil market faces huge supply risks if oil majors do not invest in new upstream projects as there is a large financing gap to cover to boost the market. S&P Global Platts reported that JP Morgan’s head of oil and gas research Christyan Malek stated recently at the FT Commodities Global Summit that the bank had identified a shortfall of $600bn of upstream investments needed between 2021 and 2030 to meet what he called a ‘muted view of global demand’. He said the financing gap would shift leverage toward core OPEC members such as Saudi Arabia but countries like Nigeria and Angola where global oil majors including Shell and Total were active may not be able to cover up the spare capacity. Malek was quoted as saying, “With record reductions in corporate oil and gas reserves, the course has been set for the concentration of output growth towards OPEC, oil price overshooting, particularly as non-OPEC supply falls short, and a high probability of capital expenditure increases or incentive for mergers and acquisitions.” In his statement at the same event, Trafigura’s co-head of oil trading, Ben Luckock voiced concern in underinvestment in upstream projects. He said, “The underinvestment is real. In the last seven years, we have lost two thirds of the exploration budget of the world.” Luckock said it may come back and bite the global economies before they transition into renewable fuels. “That six or seven million barrels per day that they’re holding back on at the moment, we’re going to need it probably sooner than we think.” Analysts from PwC told The PUNCH in an email that to meet global cumulative demand over the next 30 years, undeveloped and undiscovered resources totalling 313 billion barrels of oil needed to be added to currently producing assets. Temitope Yusuff, Associate Director and Jasmine Ejiofor, a senior associate, stated, “To match this requirement, Rystad Energy calculates that exploration programmes will have to discover a worthy-to-develop resource of 139 billion new barrels of liquids by 2050, an impossible task if this decade’s low exploration activity levels persist. “The world’s remaining proved reserves of 1.73 trillion barrels can cover 50 years of current production rates, BP estimates.” Meanwhile, the international crude oil benchmark, Brent, briefly crossed the $75 per barrel mark and then slipped after there were concerns that OPEC and its allies would increase output, Bloomberg reported. The OPEC+ coalition will meet next week and Russia, leading the alliance jointly with Saudi Arabia, was reported to be considering proposing that the group increase supply in August. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com