Mr Peter Akpatason is the Deputy Majority Leader of the House of Representatives and member, Ad hoc Committee on Constitution Review. In this interview with PETER DADA, he speaks on the ongoing public hearing on the amendment of the constitution Some people are sceptical about the constitution review, with the fear that it may be an exercise in futility at the end of the day. What is your take on this? To start with, I won’t blame Nigerians as to being sceptical about the possible outcome of the constitution review in the country, because over the years, we have done this repeatedly and we advanced to get to incremental changes that have not actually met the expectations of the people. We must be honest about it. So, Nigerians expect very serious changes that will impact on every aspect of the society. Yes, we have our challenges too. The composition of the different houses of the National Assembly is a fact to whatever that we are doing. Apart from that, the content of the constitution itself and the procedure for a review is also a factor that we need to look at. I recall that in the sixth Assembly, even though I came in, in the seventh Assembly, the National Assembly agreed to the complete independence of the state Houses of Assembly. The next phase was for the state Houses of Assembly to give endorsement and their governors asked them not to do so. And they actually rejected the proposal by the National Assembly. That was a failure that Nigerian people were not happy about. That wasn’t the fault of the National Assembly, but it was a failure because at the end of the day, even if National Assembly succeeded in passing it, provided that it didn’t scale through the other levels, it simply means that it was a failure. There are a lot of other issues to that. For instance, if you talk about derivation as a policy, it is easy to get people from the South to support the policy of derivation, but it wasn’t so easy in the past for other parts of the country to see that compelling need for increasing derivation and others like that. So, to push that through, you need to do a lot of lobbying. So, until we have a situation or an issue that the entire country seems to be comfortable with, we will definitely have that challenge of getting colleagues across board to support most the proposals made. And where two-third majority is required, for instance, if one full region or two regions are not in support of it, definitely you can be sure that it won’t scale through. That has being the challenge in the past. However, the situation we have in the country now is one that is capable of compelling people to think across the borders of those sentiments and begin to look at issues from more nationalistic perspective. I believe because of that, it is going to be easier for us to get things done much better now than in the past. The country is in a dangerous state. And I want to believe that even those who thought that they were in a safe haven and untouchable in any form seem to have realised that if the situation in the country deteriorates beyond what it is now, and if no remedy is found soon, there may be no safe place for anybody. With that fear and concern in the minds of many people, I’m sure that people will be more realistic and more practical about the situation than we have had in the past. I believe that with that, it will be much easier for us to come up with far reaching reviews than previous exercises. Some of the memoranda submitted call for a unicameral legislature and reduction in the number of legislators. What is your take on this as a federal lawmaker? It is time we start taking Nigeria issues more seriously than ever before. The issue of cost-cutting is very important at this point in time. However, we don’t do it at the expense of quality and effective representation. I’m not opposed to unicameral legislature. I actually don’t see the reason why we have two committees to oversee a ministry at the same time, it’s duplication. The argument that it is more effective, for me, is a very weak argument, because a single committee that is serious and well composed can supervise a ministry more than multiple committees that are poorly composed. I think we can do unicameral legislature and it will save some costs, but cost is not always the reason for doing things. If saving cost is what we can achieve at the detriment of effective representation, then, we need to look at it very objectively. As regards reducing the number of legislators, if you say 360 is much and you want to reduce it, you have to change the whole lot to achieve that. But I wonder if that is going to add any value. So, we should rather focus on how we can get the legislature to be more effective by getting the right people and reviewing our electoral processes, particularly our party politics and election. The election that brings people onboard, both at the executive and legislature level, at present is not as credible as it ought to be. It is very susceptible to manipulations for so many reasons. The cost of election itself is monumental; a lot of people cannot afford it. We also have to look at the role of the electoral umpire and the judiciary, because all of them add to the cost. If we are able to address all those, we will have a more credible system. If it brings in a few people, you’ll be sure that you are bringing in the right people. But there is a call for the total change of the constitution rather than its review as many say the 1999 Constitution was foisted on Nigerians. Do you share this view? The parliament, I’m not sure is in a position of totally conveying the process of bringing about a complete new constitution. We have the power to review existing constitution. I’m not sure that clause gives us the power to convene a conference that can debate a completely new constitution. It is a thing that the nation has to do through national resolution like the Jonathan’s government did to set up a conference that would debate a fresh way forward. But what we can do at the level of parliament is to review what exists and bring about changes to it. Why is it difficult for National Assembly to work on the 2014 Confab report and get a new constitution for the country? I’m not sure the issue is whether it is difficult for the National Assembly or not. The 2014 Confab was an executive document. It belongs to the executive. It’s their responsibility to dust it and look at it. However, in the course of this review, I think it is also possible for us to look at what is contained in that document and see how much we can pick from there. But in terms of implementing it, I’m not sure it is the National Assembly that can push for that, but we can borrow a leaf from what is contained in it. You know what happens in this country, that document came towards the tail end of the Goodluck Jonathan administration. In the end, it was not implemented by the same administration. And often times, when things like that happen in Nigeria, we don’t find anybody coming back to it, which is a very unfortunate practice. I think I support the idea of extracting as much as we can get from that document. As an APC leader, what has gone wrong with the committee set up by your party on restructuring headed by Governor El-Rufai? I don’t think there is anything wrong with that committee. That is a political party committee. The APC is not Nigeria as a whole. The APC is a party. A ruling party cannot impose options on the whole country. A ruling party can make contributions and that was what the APC did. It came up with a position, which has been distributed to various interest groups across the country. That is the position of the APC. That position is not necessarily the position of non-APC people and that is the majority in the country, because there is no party whose membership is up to 40 per cent of the population of the country. At best, what the APC did can be a contribution to a general process. It cannot be taken for a new constitution. Now, as we are doing our review, we are looking at that document too just as we are looking at previous documents and we will extract whatever we can extract from those documents. How optimistic are you on the possible outcome of the ongoing exercise? I’m very optimistic that this is going to be one of the best constitution review exercises we have ever had. Is it because you are one of the major participants? No, not because I’m a participant. This is not the first time I’m participating. This is the third time. The circumstances are just compelling just now. It is only the deaf and dumb or the blind that will not see and cannot feel what is happening in the country today. I can assure you that we don’t sit comfortably in our offices any more. Nobody is comfortable in the National Assembly. We are all sitting on the edge, believing that anything can happen to anybody, including those of us who are there, particularly those of us who are in government today. So, I’m not sure we need Jesus or Muhammed to come down and solve our problems for us or to remind us that we need to do our best at the moment. We have compelling circumstances, pain and agonies that are compelling enough to force anybody to do the right thing more than ever before. Don’t you think the constitution review is coming rather too late considering the agitation for self-determination in some parts of the country? The process actually started before we got to this phase. So, it is not coming too late. It is never too late.  It is a normal process that has its own cost before the security and socio-economic situation is where it is just now. It is more important now than ever before. But if you ask that due to the belief of some people that the constitution review cannot solve the problem, whether we should therefore discontinue or not, my answer will be no, we shouldn’t discontinue. Let us do the best we can to make our own contribution. If that saves, good for Nigerians, but if in the end it is not able, we would have at least satisfied our own consciences that yes, we didn’t go to slumber when the situation got to this level. Is there any possibility that the exercise will be concluded before the 2023 elections? I thought you were going to say two to three months from now. How can it be delayed more than this year? I don’t think that is realistic. I don’t think so. With the suspension of the exercise in the South-East, are you not worried that governance is collapsing in a particular zone of the country? To be honest, I’m one person who is sad about the Nigerian situation right now. It’s frustrating, I must tell you. It’s very frustrating; particularly for those of us who are out there making a very strong case for good governance and people who believe that Nigeria must continue to move on. But today, we see Nigeria crawling, retrogressing and sliding actually into a very dark situation. A situation we never dreamt of in our lives; a situation where you are not sure of your next 24 hours. Nigeria is not safe for anybody just now, let’s not kid ourselves. It’s unfortunate, I must tell you. Don’t you think that the process will be delayed because the exercise is not taking place in a part of the country? It may not. The exercise is just one out of the several steps we have taken. Going out there to listen to the people is an aspect. But before then, opportunity has been given to make input. I can assure you that about 75 to 80 per cent of those who want to make contributions have already sent their inputs and we will continue to use every means possible to get to the grassroots to get more information as much as we can. If there is an opportunity, how will you advise the President on the way out of the current quagmire the country is in? What I would have told the President if I had the opportunity is what we have been saying on the floor of the House and in committee meetings as well as exercises like the one that is going on.         ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com