While COVID-19 has taken more than 2,000 lives in Nigeria this year, cardiovascular diseases —including heart attacks, heart failure, and strokes—cause an estimated 250,000 deaths annually. Many deaths from heart disease could be prevented by treating high blood pressure, also known as hypertension. High blood pressure and other chronic conditions may also increase the risk of death and serious complications from COVID-19. In Nigeria, one in four adults has high blood pressure. And that number is rising, as the population gets older, with more people living in urban settings and pursuing unhealthy lifestyles. Lifestyles are increasingly characterised by decreased physical activity and increased consumption of packaged and processed foods. Without concerted nationwide efforts to prevent and treat high blood pressure, it is no surprise that hypertension poses a growing threat to the health and economic well-being of people in Nigeria. Many cases of high blood pressure persist for years because people are unaware that they have it. Of those who are aware of their high blood pressure, many are not treating it with the proper medications or necessary routine care. This is likely not only because hypertension almost always has no symptoms until it causes permanent damage from strokes or heart attacks, but also because long-term treatment may be inconvenient, with care only being offered by specialists at health centres far from people’s homes. The Nigeria Hypertension Control Initiative aims to reduce deaths from cardiovascular diseases by providing effective treatment for hypertension and is currently being implemented in 24 facilities in Kano and Ogun states, with about 3,500 patients enrolled in treatment. A companion project managed by the University of Abuja supports an additional 60 facilities in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja currently serving over 9,000 patients. The NHCI and University of Abuja programmes both focus on bringing care closer to patients by moving hypertension diagnosis and treatment to the primary care level and making treatment available for hypertension at primary care centres. This means that at full rollout, effective screening and treatment for hypertension could be extended to 30,000 primary care centres across the country. High blood pressure needs not be managed by specialists or doctors at hospitals; other types of health care workers, such as nurses, can effectively manage hypertension at the primary care level, where most people get their health care. Supporting health workers like nurses to diagnose, treat, and monitor hypertension at the primary care level care can alleviate the burden on the limited number of physicians and allow patients to receive the care and support they need to manage blood pressure successfully. This concept of task sharing – working with different types of health workers to provide comprehensive care for a patient rather than relying primarily on physicians to provide all care for blood pressure management – has been successfully used in many other countries, especially for patients with less complicated cases. Task sharing allows nurses to care for the high volume of patients with uncomplicated hypertension who require only basic treatment and monitoring and improve patient outcomes in both high-income and lower- and middle- income contexts. It also improves consistency of care, reduces costs on the health care system and makes treatment more convenient and accessible to patients. Task sharing alone is not a magic bullet for improving blood pressure control; it works best when used with other proved strategies. Drug and dose-specific treatment protocols simplify treatment, which reduces costs and ensures the provision of consistent quality care. Programmes must supply blood pressure monitors and medications that meet high quality standards to provide accurate diagnosis and effective treatment. Patient-centred care, where treatment is responsive to and directed by a patient’s needs, allows can reduce patient burden, off-load health systems, and improve patient adherence to their treatment. Information systems (for example, to track patient status and outcomes) enable quality improvement in care and streamline follow up with patients. These proved interventions should be developed in collaboration with key stakeholders like health insurance schemes and patient groups, and must be supported by adequate funding in both the public and private sector. 2021 is the World Health Organiation’s Year of Health and Care Workers —a recognition that health care workers are essential not only to responding to the COVID-19 pandemic, but also to all the care needed to keep people healthy. The potential for task-sharing care to improve the management of high blood pressure is a perfect example of the ways that all types of health and care workers—not just physicians— reduce preventable death to create a healthier society. By implementing task-sharing broadly across Nigeria’s primary health care system, we can expand and strengthen treatment for hypertension and other non-communicable diseases, improving cardiovascular health Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com