The House of Representatives, on Wednesday rejected a call for the reopening of Nigeria’s land borders, saying the security of the country superseded the economic implications. Some members had earlier moved a motion to decry how closure of the borders had crippled economic activities in the border communities. Titled, ‘Urgent Need to Reopen Idiroko Border and Other Land Borders in Nigeria,’ the motion was jointly sponsored by lawmakers across regional and political lines, namely Messrs Kolawole Lawal, Umar Kamba, Babatunde Humpe, Sada Soli, Sarkin Adar, Abdullahi Salame, Daniel Asuquo, Awaji-Inombek Abiante, Olajide Olatunbosun, Isreal Goli and Michael Etaba. The sponsors had prayed the House to urge the Federal Government to reopen the Idiroko and other land borders to boost economic activities and revenue generation to the nation’s economy. They had also prayed the House to also urge the Federal Government to invest in better border security. Lawal, who presented the motion, recalled that before closure of the borders, the Nigeria-Benin Republic border at Idiroko in the Ipokia Local Government Area of Ogun State alone generated annual revenue of N6bn. He noted that “while the Seme, Illela, Maigatari and Mfun borders had since been reopened, others have remained closed.” Lawal said, “The House is concerned that since the closure of Nigeria’s borders in August 2019, residents of Idiroko in Ogun State have witnessed a massive economic downturn. “The House is also worried that inhabitants of other border communities across the country have had it rough since the border closure and have had to take desperate measures to survive, thus exacerbating the insecurity situation of the country. “The House is further worried that if Idiroko and other closed land borders across the country are not urgently reopened, the people will further suffer and, considering the growing agitation as a result of the closure, may resort to aggravated crimes to survive as the country continues to lose huge revenue.” But the Deputy Speaker, Ahmed Wase, warned against reopening the borders, noting that the closure was declared by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), for security reasons. Wase said, “The closure has reduced trans-border movement of arms and ammunition which has consequently reduced crime rate in the country.” Another member, Beni Lar, also argued that the closure had helped the country’s agricultural sector. The Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, asked those calling for reopening of the borders to also consider the benefits. He also noted that businesses can only thrive when the country is secure. When Gbajabiamila put the motion to voice vote, majority of the lawmakers voted against reopening. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com