Hyundai Motors Nigeria Limited has launched its all-new Creta vehicle in Nigeria with a redesigned SUV model. The company said the second-generation Creta had been transformed into the ultimate sub-compact SUV for any terrain. The Head of Sales and Marketing, Mr Gaurav Vashisht, at the launch in Lagos, said, “The latest and fresh-look SUV stands out on the road with enhanced improvements to both exterior and interior. “The car is bigger in size and boasts state-of-the-art technology, the Creta offers premium experience with more space, comfort and convenience features.” He described the new SUV as a tremendous improvement on the success of the first model. He said, “The fresh-look Creta is more spacious, boasts improved features and utilises state-of-the-art technologies to meet the complete needs of working professionals, young peer group and families.” According to the sales head, central to Hyundai’s vision of delivering a superior experience is performance and the Creta is installed with highly evolved powertrain engines, bringing incredible power and cleaner emissions. “The all-new Creta comes with a choice of three engines. The Smart stream G1.5 (maximum power of 115ps/6,300rpm and maximum torque of 14.7kgf.m/4,500rpm) and the Kappa 1.4T-GDI (140ps/6,000rpm and 24.7kgf.m/1,500-3,200rpm) are both gasoline engines, providing better fuel economy on the roads. “The 2021 Creta offers the diesel U2 1.5 VGT engine, which has a maximum power of 115ps/4,000rpm and a maximum torque of 25.5kgf.m/1,500-2,750rpm.” While responding to questions from journalists, Vashisht said the design for the car was launched in 2020 and produced in 2021. He also said that the company was in talks with one of the commercial banks in the country on an easy payment structure for interested buyers. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com