The Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offence Commission, the Nigerian Shippers’ Council, Nigerian Ports Authority and other ports agencies have inaugurated a Port Standing Task Team in the Eastern ports of Port Harcourt and Onne. The ICPC in a statement on Thursday disclosed that the team was made up of officers of ICPC, NSC, NPA and the Directorate of State Services and was charged with ensuring that standard procedures were followed in carrying out transactions at the ports. The statement said it was part of an ongoing collaboration to ensure the full implementation of the Nigerian Ports Process Manual. ICPC Head of Investigation, Prince Hassan Mohammed, representing the chairman, charged the team to be diligent in carrying out their duties, stating that the team’s activities were geared towards reducing corruption in Nigeria, the statement said. Zonal Director, South-South, Nigerian Shippers’ Council, Mr Ogor Israel, explained that the basic aim of setting up the task team was to ensure efficiency and make Nigerian ports some of the best places to do business. He assured that soon, insecurity at the ports would become a thing of the past. Acting Managing Director of NPA, Mr Mohammed Koko, said the NPPM was fully funded by the NPA as part of its contribution towards creating a transparent and efficient port system that aligned with the concept of the presidential order on the ease of doing business in the Nigerian port sector. Terminal operators and cargo owners promised to support the team with information and reports of any observed infractions. The highlight of the event was the inauguration of the team comprising three officials from the ICPC, five personnel from the DSS, three staff members of NSC and two staff members of the NPA. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com