Kano Pillars moved to the summit of the Nigerian Professional Football League on Sunday following their 2-1 win over Enyimba Of Aba at the Ahmadu Bello stadium in Kano on Sunday, The PUNCH reports. Goals from Rabiu Ali in the 52nd minute from the spot and another from Ifeanyi Eze in the 76th minute cancelled out Victor Mbaoma’s eighth-minute goal for Enyimba. The win also extended Pillars’ unbeaten run in the NPFL to 10 games. The Sai Masu Gida last defeat in the league was a 4-1 defeat away to Abia Warrior on March 14. In Bauchi, Akwa United forced Wikki Tourists to a 2-2 draw. Stephen Gopey gave the hosts the lead after 33 minutes but parity was restored four minutes later by Salisu Saidu. Eight minutes after the restart, Charles Atshimene made it 2-1 for Akwa United before Gopey bagged his second of the game scoring in the 70th minute to earn Wikki a share of the spoils. The draw extended Akwa United unbeaten run to 15 games (eight wins and seven draws) so far this season. Elsewhere, a goal in each half from Abubakar Ibrahim and Muhammed Zulkifilu helped Plateau United secure a 2-0 win over Adamawa United their ninth away from home. Lobi Stars also beat Dakkada 1-0 thanks to a 38th-minute strike from John Lazarus. The win was Lobi Stars eighth away from home. In Ilorin, Kwara United thrashed Jigawa Stars 3-0 to move third in the NPFL log. A brace from Wasiu Alalade and another goal from Nosir Afeez secured a 12th league win of the season for the club. Kwara United are now third with 43 points from 24 games – five points adrift leaders Pillars who have played a game more. Abia Warrior and FC IfeanyiUbah and played out a 1-1 draw in Umuahia just as MFM held Enugu Rangers to the same scoreline. Warri Wolves moved out of the relegation zone with a hard-fought 2-1 win over struggling Sunshine Stars at the Ozoro Polytechnic stadium. Mark Daniel gave Wolves the lead on the stroke of halftime before Walter Ighoakpokire doubled the lead in the 79th minute. Fuad Ekelojuoti scored a consolatory goal in the 90th minute. Wolves are now 16th in the log with 27 points from 25 games. Katsina United also defeated Nasarawa United 2-1 while Heartland were held to a 2-2 draw to home to Rivers United. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com