RP Global, an independent power producer in the renewable energy sector, has highlighted the benefits of alternative energy to businesses and the economy. The firm said the impact of alternative and renewable energy on businesses could not be overemphasised, describing it as a unique opportunity to meet climate goals while fuelling economic growth, creating new job opportunities and enhancing human welfare. According to a statement issued by the firm, RP Global and Oolu, an off-grid solar firm in West Africa, have come together to launch Westa.Solar, a commercial and industrial solar venture in West Africa to address the energy need in this market. It said Westa.Solar had delivered a 500kWp solar installation in Kano State, Nigeria to supply Solar PETRICHOR Industries Limited with almost a quarter of its energy needs as well as improve its resilience against frequent power outages. The statement said it would also enable the company to minimise its reliance on diesel generators, thereby reducing both its overall energy costs and carbon footprint. It said the project was jointly financed by Westa.Solar and a grant from the UK Foreign & Commonwealth Development Office. Westa.Solar’s Nigeria Country Manager, Kolawole Akinboye, said, “This is the first of what we hope to be many solar power projects for our C&I company in Nigeria. This Solar PV installation is projected to help PETRICHOR generate savings of over N235m over the next 10 years and support its long-term growth ambitions. “Our solar hybrid systems are a great solution for businesses with high energy needs. Ranging from 50kW to 5MW, our systems are fully customised to meet client demand. “By providing a reliable supply at a competitive price, we offer greater financial predictability and contribute to decarbonising the Nigerian energy mix.” According to him, alternative and renewable energy is one of the reliable ways to ensure business growth and clean energy for Nigerian modern businesses. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com