Gospel singer, Adeyinka Alaseyori, has been in the news lately after her colleague, Tope Alabi, criticised people who refer to God as ‘Oniduro Mi’, which means ‘guarantor’. Alaseyori, among other gospel singers, have waxed records where they referred to God as ‘Oniduro Mi’. In a video, which has since gone viral, Alabi stated that although she was not condemning the songs, she believes God is bigger than an entity to be described as a guarantor. However, her opinion did not sit well with many people and her comment has since sparked a debate among gospel music lovers. More so, Alabi has faced backlash online over her comment. For days, Alaseyori, whose version of ‘Oniduro Mi’ song is most popular, had kept mum until today when she took to her Instagram account to sue for peace.
In the post, the sonorous singer shared a word of prayer calling for peace as she said, “May we all come to the real knowledge of God and his power.
“If you love God, please in God’s name, don’t comment otherwise. May the peace of God and the God of peace fill our hearts. May we receive grace to rise above all weakness. May the hand of God wrap and shield us all. May the power of God do the unimaginable in our lives. May the mercy of God speak forth where we have lost our voices. May the love of God return to our hearts and Altars. “May the fresh fire of revival of the spirit not elude us. May we all come to the real knowledge of God and his power. May we receive help to remain in the secret place of the Most High. May the unity of faith be achieved in my own lifetime. May we not pray and praise amiss. May we begin to tap into new realms of glory.
“May the gate of hell not prevail against the church. We receive help not to submit to the will of the flesh. All in Jesus name I pray and believe. Please share and pray along. #PeaceBeStill.”
Alaseyori’s post elicited positive reactions from her fans. For instance, ace Nollywood actor, Funsho Adeolu, taking to her comment section, wrote, “It’s your time Evangelist Yinka, thread it with God. When God’s time is here, everything will work for your upliftment, even your mistakes can’t stop it.”