The Federal Government on Monday said that it would tighten security in its international land and maritime borders with seven countries through effective policing. While assuring that it would “never compromise an inch of Nigeria’s integrity”, the government also sought the cooperation of relevant borders management structures in Nigeria and integration of traditional rulers in the border communities to realise the mandate of ensuring security. The decision came amidst a reported influx of foreigners who were said to be fuelling banditry, killing and other forms of insurgency in Nigeria. The Director-General of the National Boundary Commission, a parastatal of the Presidency, Adamu Agaji and Director (International Boundaries), Mustapha Ribadu, stated these during the celebration of the 11th edition of the African Border Day with the theme: ‘Arts, Culture and Heritage: Levers for building the Africa we want.’ During the event, Ribadu acknowledged the working relationship with the various security agencies in Nigeria. According to him, the work of the commission in the determination of the border would, no doubt, provide the security agencies, “with clear limits of Nigeria’s territorial borders for effective policing and defence.” Ribadu said, “Let me assure you that the NBC would never compromise an inch of Nigeria’s integrity. However, we are committed to respecting the international laws and treaty obligations as enshrined in Nigeria’s constitution. “As agreed by African leaders in the 1964 Cairo Declaration on the principle of inviolability of the African borders, Nigeria has the obligation of respecting the colonial treaties as inherited from the European powers at the time of independence.” Adaji acknowledged that Nigeria, as a sovereign nation shared international land and maritime borders with seven countries, adding that the presentation on the status of Nigeria’s international borders by Ribadu had provided insights into our activities along Nigeria’s international border with each neighbouring country. He said, “No doubt, providing effective policing across the length of these expansive territorial birders requires not only the commitment of Nigeria’s security operatives but also the support of relevant border management structures in Nigeria and integration of our patriotic traditional authorities in the borderland communities who are the gateways to the nation. “These borderland communities, through their cross border socio-cultural platforms as homogenous communities, would obviously play an important role in securing Nigeria and building the peaceful and prosperous Africa we want.”