There was tension at Ashaka in Ndokwa East Local Government Area of Delta State as over 20 unknown gunmen on Sunday attacked a police station in the community with explosives believed to be improvised explosive devices (IED). PUNCH Metro gathered that the gunmen who were repelled by the police operatives, however, burnt down the station. Though no life was said to have been lost in the attack, the hoodlums, however, set ablaze the operational vehicles of the command. Confirming the incident, the command spokesman in the state, DSP Bright Edafe said the attack happened in the early hours of Sunday around 1am. He said, “Some enemies of the community and that of the police, all armed men numbering about twenty, stormed Ashaka Police Station. “They threw IEDs at the station, shot sporadically, and set the police station that was built by the community/DESOPADEC ablaze, and also burnt down patrol vehicle also bought for the police division by good people of the community just to ensure that police presence is not felt. “It is pertinent to state that no life was lost and no arm was taken away. However, the police will not relent in ensuring that law and order are maintained in any community.” Edafe said unprovoked attacks on the police will not deter the Force from providing the needed security in any community in Delta State, stressing that the hoodlums who perpetrated this dastardly act will certainly not go free, as serious efforts were on to arrest them and bring them to book. In another development, a police joint team killed six suspected armed robbers/kidnappers during a serious gun duel. According to the PPRO, on Friday, acting on a tip-off, the Commissioner of Police, Delta State, deployed joint tactical teams of the command who stormed the hideout of suspected armed robbers/kidnappers, engaged the hoodlums in a serious gun duel He said the joint team in the process killed six of them, while others fled with gunshot injuries into the bush. One Ak-47 rifle, one pump action gun, one AK-47 magazine with 25 live ammunition were recovered. “In the same vein, on Friday, the men of Delta State Command while on stop and search duty along Patani-Bayelsa Road intercepted a Sienna bus with Reg. no. LSR 813 XL with four occupants. “On sighting the police, they quickly tried to manoeuvre in a bid to escape. The police went after them, and on searching the vehicle, one locally made Barretta Pistol was recovered, and four suspects – Efe Oyenikoro, Felix George, Emmanuel Job and Joan Yapiteghe were arrested,” he added.