The Chairman, Scib Nigeria and Company Limited, Olabode Ogunlana, who is the doyen of the insurance industry, speaks to NIKE POPOOLA on how partnerships can help grow the insurance industry, among other issues How can insurance boost the economy? The main purpose of insurance in an economy is to protect and conserve the wealth of the nation and create additional wealth. Concomitant with this is the creation within the nation of the awareness of risk management and maintenance culture. These are the areas that should engage the attention of the Nigerian insurance industry, aided by a body such as the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The COVID-19 pandemic has brought a lot of changes globally. How can the insurance industry fully adjust to the changes? It is good and great that we have survived thus far the ravages of the monster called COVID-19 pandemic. It is invisible; no one has seen it. But the whole world is feeling the effect of the changes. Change is an essential part of life. We must partner with change to ensure that we are well-positioned at all times. New times are evolving. We need to change with them. Time there was when we heard sayings such as ‘Not all secrets should be revealed to the young’; ‘Let us keep our secrets secret’; ‘Wait your time to play the master’. Whether we like it or not, post-COVID-19 period will dictate that we re-examine sayings such as these. We need to change our mindset. Being too secretive may be dangerous for coming generations. Thorough training of followers makes the transition smooth and ensures a better future. Insurance penetration is still low in Nigeria; how can this be addressed? As at now, insurance penetration of the economic and social life of the nation is abysmally low. This is where the task of breaking new frontiers should begin. How many individuals in Nigeria know what insurance and its values to homes and to the society as a whole are? The first frontier to cross is market penetration. In doing so, the Nigerian insurance industry should not look up to the governments or other sources. The responsibility falls squarely on its shoulders. You need to walk your talk. Do less talking, intensify your walking. The insurance industry did that 70 years ago. The Nigerian insurance industry should become more marketing-oriented such that school children, university students, workers, both in the public and private sectors, as well as market women, would appreciate the importance of insurance and what it means to the economy. The Nigerian insurance industry needs to be more innovative, resourceful and determined. You have been in the insurance industry for almost 70 years. What were the methods adopted by the underwriters many decades ago to grow the sector? If you dust the old records, you will discover what our grandparents did 100 years ago. They had mutual help in doing farm work but were not confined to farm work. It was used as well to finance small businesses such as ‘Esusu’, a scheme where several persons pool their money, each paying a fixed sum weekly or monthly, and each participant drawing out the total in rotation. Lagos Friendly Society, of which I was a member, did that in the 1960s. The LFS went further; its participants took term life assurance, which ensured that if a member died before the completion of the cycle, the insurer would pay so that no one suffered any loss. In the 1950s and 1960s, two or three insurance companies had industrial life assurance policies, with collectors going to markets and worksites to collect the premium. The proceeds of the policies were used for meeting expenses of burials or starting small businesses. We also had life endowment policies for homeownership. With information technology and other new innovations, you can improve on and modernise these innovations. The sky is the limit. Why did you move to other things after many years in the insurance industry? After 50 years of slugging in insurance, to be precise June 2002, I veered off into a new area of interest: the study of Yoruba culture. This might have been due to Maslow’s theory of needs. By 2002, I had satisfied the lower needs of life. Between then and now, I have made eye-opening and mind-boggling discoveries in Yoruba culture. Yoruba philosophy has revealed to me aspects of Yoruba culture hitherto unknown to me and others which I had glossed over or neglected. Our forebears had distilled and encapsulated a lot into the culture by way of proverbs. The proverbs have much to say about the nation-state; how to live well and in peace; how to pull together, notwithstanding differences in the various cultures; how to gather and utilise wealth without becoming beggars or subservient. I am also aware that many of the other Nigerian cultures have a similar stockpile of knowledge. These are the mainstay of society. The insurance industry is partnering with bodies like the LCCI to explore opportunities during the pandemic. How can partnerships help to boost insurance penetration? The Nigeria insurance industry is looking at breaking new frontiers. My understanding is that the industry intends to identify and use the new opportunities which the post COVID-19 pandemic will bring. If my understanding is correct, we are back to what we harped on last year. The impact of the past on the present is as important as the impact of the present on the future. I wish to ask: is the Nigerian insurance industry battle-ready? The future in which we plan to break new frontiers is the post-COVID-19 period. We do not need a soothsayer to tell us that the period will throw up many changes. But we need not be frightened at the prospect. The permanence and relevance of change in life are indisputable. With determined efforts, they can be tackled. At this stage, I want us to look at an analogy. Let us examine a tree. A tree has roots, trunks, stems and branches. It produces fruits, which are eatable. It also provides oil and juices that are also edible. It has saps for medicinal and other uses. The tree needs the soil to enable its roots to stand firm and to draw nutrients. The well-being of the tree depends on the nature of the soil, climate and many other factors. All these together produce a good tree with a healthy trunk, stems, branches, leaves and fruits. The fruits, the oils, the saps and juices – that is, the produce of the tree – reflect the health of the tree and everything else that flow from it. The tree is not unlike a nation-state. Its regions and states are the stems. The latter in turn produces the communities – be they cities, towns, districts, villages and so on. In our own situation, the LCCI is the stem from which the Nigerian insurance industry and other sectors from commerce and industries – that is, branches – draw their nutrients. The governments at federal and state levels are the trees. They have stems and branches dependent on them for life. Significantly, these relationships are in many cases reversible. Like the LCCI, bodies such as the Nigeria Employers Consultative Association and the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria obtain nutrients from their members. Whereas, the universities and other comparable bodies derive their nutrients from governments at federal and state levels. The two trees in the analogy, the nation and LCCI, need to remain healthy for their stems and branches to produce wealth, their mainstay, and vice versa. Many individuals and institutions seldom stand back to examine and/or sit down to meditate on these relationships, which as I previously said in many cases, are reversible.  The LCCI – the stem – cannot beat its chest with glee and proclaim its success to the nation without the success of the Nigerian insurance industry and other industries, which together constitute the branches. It is from them that the ‘shine and thrive’, which enables LCCI to puff its chest, are derived. Here I am referring to its good health and fruits – the profits made by its members, on which its continued existence and relevance depend. Similarly, the success of the nation-state is dependent on those of its stems and branches. What is the way forward for the Nigerian insurance industry? The problems of tomorrow cannot be solved without the experience of today; our today will be extended to next year as we battle the changes which post-COVID-19 will dictate. If we as an industry get our acts together and break the frontier of market penetration; if all the sectors within the industry – reinsurance, insurers, brokers, and loss adjusters, among others, provide a seamless service, the industry will make giant strides to the benefit of the national economy. How can the industry boost its capacity to reduce capital flight from the country? Let us go back to the analogy of the tree. If the tree is firmly embedded, if the right climate is provided by a resilient financial system, if other necessary factors are put in place to provide risk management and maintenance culture with the ultimate objective of conserving and increasing the wealth of the nation, all will be well. If the new recapitalisation programme of reinsurers and insurers is completed with robust manpower/technical training and development of the insurance market, it will be enabled to retain more premium. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com