DENNIS NAKU takes a look at the tension in the Niger Delta over the non-constitution of a substantive board for the Niger Delta Development Commission and the grievances of Ijaw youths and major stakeholders in the region The protests by youths under the auspices of the Ijaw Youths Council Worldwide calling for the inauguration of a substantive board for the Niger Delta Development Commission have dominated discourse in the crude oil and gas rich region in the last couple of weeks. The NDDC comprises nine states namely: Abia, Imo, Rivers, Delta, Bayelsa, Edo, Akwa Ibom, Ondo and Cross River, spanning 185 local government council areas. From the outset, the rule guiding the establishment of the NDDC is that the President will compose the board and forward members’ names to the Senate for confirmation. Under this arrangement each of the nine states was to be represented on the board of the commission, while state offices would be established. The interventionist agency had hitherto function this way and things were going on somewhat smoothly until in the recent past when the commission’s leadership was headed by people with strange appellations, such as acting managing director, Interim Management Committee and sole administrator as is presently the case. These have come with different modes of operation where whoever is the head at a particular point in time wields so much power, having to hold sway without a properly constituted board, but only answerable to the appointing authority. Under such an arrangement, the commission is bound to derail from its original mandate, part of which is to train and educate youths from the Niger Delta to stem the myriad of agitations there and bring about a regime of massive infrastructural development and ultimately a breath of fresh air to the proverbial goose that lays the golden egg. But there is no gainsaying the fact that things have gone from the sublime to the ridiculous under the latest arrangement with issues of corruption on the front burner, a scenario that resulted in the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) to order a forensic audit from 2000 when the federal agency was established to date. Various stakeholder groups in the region have called on the Federal Government to constitute the NDDC board, a plea which seems to have fallen on deaf ears. The clamour for the board assumed a new twist recently, when the IYC took over the demand with the exuberance, which now seems to be brewing tension in the Niger Delta. The IYC President, Peter Igbifa, did not mince words when he gave a 30-day ultimatum to the Federal Government to constitute a substantive board for the commission or risk the shutting down of the region. While the deadline approached, Igifa raised the stakes at the annual Boro Day celebration in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, when he gave the International Oil Companies seven days to evacuate their workers from all oil installations in the region. Igbifa also urged other oil companies owned by Nigerians to prepare to leave the Niger Delta, saying the safety of the IOCs and their Nigerian counterparts could not be guaranteed after the ultimatum given to the government to constitute the NDDC board expired. As the youth mobilised to begin what they termed the mother of all protests following the expiration of the deadline on May 25, 2021, news broke that Igbifa was kidnapped by masked gunmen on his way to the Port Harcourt International Airport to catch a flight, with the police saying it had deployed all its tactical units to ensure that he was released/rescued unhurt and reunited with his family. But Igbifa sent out a message about his kidnap and directed the youth to go ahead with the protest. Like predators waiting to strike at a prey, the youth went to work, undeterred by his abduction. On Wednesday May 26, 2021, the ijaw youths came out en masse and shut the Bayelsa State office of the NDDC before proceeding to block the Mbiama end of the East-West Road, signalling the beginning of the mass action. Travellers and motorist plying the ailing East-West Road, which links Rivers, Bayelsa and Delta states to other parts of the country, were stuck in the ensuing gridlock, as the youth played loud music and danced with placards bearing several inscriptions and hoisted the IYC flag, a situation which repeated itself thrice that week. Few days after he regained freedom, Igbifa claimed that he was taken to several places by his abductors, which he did not know because he was blindfolded, pointing out that the kidnappers did not want the protest to hold. He, however, insisted that the protest must continue and lauded his troops for holding the forth vociferously. The IYC boss gave life to his resolve in a statement in Port Harcourt, where he declared that the ongoing #OccupyNigerDelta protest, which according to him is beyond anybody’s personal interest, would continue. He further said the action was initiated to ensure justice, equity and fairness in the activities and management of the NDDC. Igbifa also appealed to the parent body, the Ijaw National Congress, to rise up and caution their sons and daughters in his executive committee, who held a meeting with the Minister of the Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, while he was in captivity, saying he never authorised the parley. He said the protest would continue until Akpabio and the Federal Government inaugurated a substantive board for the NDDC, adding that an all-inclusive board was a catalyst for the empowerment of the Niger Delta youths. Igbifa stated, “When we took the decision to embark on this protest, we knew that pressure would come; we knew that some politicians, who want this evil status quo to continue, would roll in their cash to divide us. I promise that I will not collect money and betray this course. “We want to reiterate that we are not against the ongoing forensic audit, but it should not give birth to the worst injustice of running the NDDC like someone’s personal company. We need a board and we need it now.” On Friday, May 28, Ijaw youths shut the NDDC corporate headquarter at the Marine Base in Port Harcourt, while singing and dancing for several hours. The Information Officer of the IYC, Eastern Zone, Jim Samson, who spoke during the protest, said the NDDC was being monopolised by Akwa Ibom State, which is where Akpabio hails from, alleging that the planted his kinsman, Effiong Akwa, as the sole administrator. He stated, “The NDDC, which is made up of nine states, is presently occupied by just one state. That is Akwa Ibom, and we want a representative government and not an autocratic government. “Therefore we are asking the Federal Government to as a matter of urgency and good governance provide us with a substantive board, where the nine states will be equally represented, so that development can cut across board.” Similarly, the Rivers State office of the NDDC along Olu Obasanjo Road, Port Harcourt, and the temporal office headquarters on Aba Road, also in Port Harcourt, were also shut and staff members chased out. The Ijaw youth also shut down the NDDC offices in Delta, Akwa Ibom and Cross River states, while reiterating their demand for a board to be inaugurated. With the protest assuming a frightening dimension, the commission’s offices across the states remained sealed off; Akpabio had to jet out to Delta State to meet with the former militant leader, High Chief Government Ekpemupolo, popularly known as Tompolo, to prevail on him to calm frayed nerves. This was after Tompolo boosted the protesting youths with a seven-day ultimatum he issued to the Federal Government to inaugurate the NDDC board. Tompolo, who is the Ibe-Ebidouwei of the Ijaw nation, said in a statement, “I wish to call on Mr President, members of the National Assembly and security agencies to work towards the constitution of the substantive board of the NDDC within a few days to avert a total breakdown of law and order that will equally affect crude oil exploration and exploitation activities in the region.” Obviously perturbed by Tompolo’s message, the minister sought the intervention of prominent traditional rulers in Delta State and the political class, but met a brick wall, as he was reportedly told that the ex-militant leader neither spoke twice nor spoke with both sides of his mouth. Determined to douse the tension and impress Buhari, Akpabio intensified efforts and eventually had a meeting with the Ijaw youths in Delta State, where he reportedly pleaded that they should give the Federal Government another two months to tidy up the forensic audit, which he said would pave the way for the constitution of a substantive board. But his plea was rebuffed with disdain, but Tompolo had shifted ground and gave till the end of June for the NDDC board to be inaugurated. The ex-militant leader further bent over backwards and endorsed the outcome of a consultative meeting between traditional rulers from the Niger Delta, the Delta State Government, the Ijaw National Congress and Akpabio. The meeting, which held at the traditional headquarters of the Gbaramatu Kingdom, Oporoza, had in attendance leaders from Itsekiri, Urhobo, Isoko, Ndokwa and other nationalities, all of who agreed that they should give the government till June and July for the inauguration of the NDDC board. Akpabio, who spoke after the meeting, promised that the process of constituting a substantive NDDC board would be expedited. He stated, “We had a robust discussion and consultation. The meetings have been fruitful. The consensus of stakeholders is that there is a need for more representation in the NDDC and so, a board needs to be constituted. “We have also looked at what is affecting the region. The youths applauded, but they want to see more progress and more employment opportunities.” Tompolo said in a statement that he did not want anything to disrupt the relative peace the citizens were enjoying in the region, adding that the government monkeyshines must be put away, as constituting the NDDC board was very dear to the people of the region. He said the ultimate goal of the ultimatum was for the minister to abide by the promise he made to start the process of constituting the NDDC board. The ex-militant commander thanked all traditional rulers for the fatherly role they played in the matter, especially Chief Edwin Clark, as well as Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, his deputy and other notable figures in the region for their contributions. In a sudden reaction, which gave vent to Tompolo’s stance, his former ally and now a monarch in Rivers State, Chief Ateke Tom, backed the seven-day ultimatum given to the Federal Government to inaugurate a substantive board for the NDDC, even as he accused Akpabio of insincerity. Tom, who is the Amayanabo of Okochiri Kingdom in the Okrika Local Government Area of Rivers State and former leader, Niger Delta Vigilante Force, stated this in a statement issued in Port Harcourt on Friday, June 4, 2021. Tom, in the statement signed by his Chief of Staff, Tamunokonba Akaluogbo, said he was backing Tompolo due to the continued insincerity and open deceit allegedly adopted by the Niger Delta Affairs Minister, Senator Godswill Akpabio, in handling the affairs of the NDDC and the region at large. While reiterating calls for resource control, true federalism and state police, Harry re-echoed the call for the NDDC board to fast track development in the crude oil and gas rich but impoverished region. He said, “Records available show that over $40bn have so far been expended. So, this forensic audit report and possible prosecution of the indicted persons will serve as a deterrent to others. In the coming days, all that is needed is for the Federal Government to match words with action by constituting the substantive NDDC board, which stakeholders say should have representation from each of the nine NDDC states and fast track development, failure of which may truncate the fragile peace being enjoyed in the Niger Delta region, with the disruption of oil and gas activities which will bring the Nigerian economy to its knees. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com