Experts have raise doubt over the announcement by the Federal Government that it would raise the country’s generation capacity to 25 gigawatts in five years. The PUNCH had reported that the Special Assistant on Media and Communications to the Minister of Power, Aaron Artimas, had said that the government was working with Siemens to increase power generation to 11000 megawatts by 2022, and achieve 25 gigawatts in five years. The Nigerian Electricity Supply Industry currently has installed capacity of 12522 megawatts but has only been able to generate a peak of 5,377 megawatts, according to the Transmission Company of Nigeria. The 25 Gigawatts announcement from the ministry has raised questions among industry watchers if the projection could be pulled off. In a telephone interview, energy expert, Prof. Adeola Adenikinju, shed some light on the history of the power sector. He said, “I was part of the team in 2005 under President Olusegun Obasanjo when we created the Power Sector Development Plan for Nigeria, and it was a very publicly transparent process as it involved the private sector, government stakeholders, and the academia. “The estimate we had at that time was that by 2026, if we did things right, we should be able to have about 40,000 Megawatts and by 2030, 58,000 megawatts. That would have made us a little better than where South Africa is now.” He said the problem with Nigeria was not a lack of resources or demand but poor execution. Adenikinju said, “As people have estimated as the potential of the industry, we aspired to have 20,000 megawatts by 2020, but we have been seeing 3000, 4000, 5000, 7000, after how many years and billions of dollars in investment that have been spent already. “On the current plan, we can bring in foreign investors, attract foreign capital and use our capital, but whether the environment is conducive enough for people to come and invest their hard-earned resources is something else, entirely. It is something we should be able to do ideally, but within the current circumstances, it looks very unlikely.” Bala Zakka, a power sector analyst, said comparing the previous years and now would easily reveal that the country would not be able to generate 25 Gigawatts in five years. He said, “In comparative analysis, there is a principle called trend analysis or ratio analysis. If from the time we came into democracy in 1999 and we are now in 2021 we have not been able to generate 13000 megawatts of electricity, it is very clear from the trend analysis that there is no way we will be able to generate additional 12500 megawatts in five years. “The reasons can be explained. Nigeria is a country that refused to take advantage of its gas reserves, build gas infrastructure, then use the gas to drive the turbine and generate electricity for more than 22 years.” “To that extent, Nigeria can’t unlock 25 gigawatts in five years. All of us are still aware of the scandals of the P&ID that took place: a company was alleged to have come in and wanted to use gas to generate electricity, and everything ended in shambles.” He added, “It goes back to lack of creativity. We are hell-bent on privatisation which can simply not work as Nigeria is an emerging economy that needs strong government involvement. We just need to eliminate corruption and things can move smoothly.” Renewable energy expert and Chief Executive Officer, All-On, Dr Wiebe Boer, told The PUNCH that there were regulatory and operational challenges that would make it impossible to key solar power in on-grid large scale power generation, even though it could help the government achieve its aim. Boer said, “Currently based on regulation and poor transmission infrastructure and other related issues with the on-grid segment of the power sector, large utility-scale solar is not possible at this time. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com