THE Delta State chapter of the People’s Democratic Party has suspended the Senator representing Delta North in the National Assembly, Peter Nwaoboshi over alleged anti-party activities. This was contained in a statement issued by the State Publicity Secretary of the party, Dr. Ifeanyi Osuoza, in Asaba, on Wednesday. The statement read in part, “The State Working Committee of the Delta State Chapter of the PDP, rising from an emergency meeting, suspended the Senator representing Delta North Senatorial District in the National Assembly, Senator Peter Nwaoboshi, for a period of one month. “This action has become necessary against the backdrop of the recent romance with an opposition Party, verbal recklessness, and unprovoked utterances of Nwaoboshi, particularly against the person of His Excellency, Senator Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, the Executive Governor of Delta State, which the PDP State Working Committee views strongly as totally unacceptable, disturbing and unbecoming of a politician and party member of his stature. “The PDP State Working Committee is in no doubt that the rash, unguarded, confused and heavily noxious, and vitriolic attacks by Senator Nwaoboshi, a serving Senator and a very recent chairman of our great party, are potentially inimical to the peace and harmony of the party and tantamount to causing discord and disaffection among loyal party members.” Nwaoboshi had castigated Okowa administration on Sunday when he played host to some of his supporters at his country home in Ibusa, Oshimili North Local Government Area, saying, “Urhobo and Itsekiri governors performed credibly well than our own Anioma (Delta North) governor. “What has the Anioma governor done for Asaba people to show that he loves Asaba more than the Delta Central people?” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com