My troublesome friend, Mr Chukwudi Nwachukwu, who is a software engineer, spoke with me on how he used the leaves of java apple that he read about in one of the national dailies to treat his migraine in the late 90s. He told me he got the tender part of the leaves and started cooking and drinking. He said he has not had migraine up till date. People call the fruit water apple or local apple. Syzygium samarangense (Java apple) is a species of flowering plant in the family Myrtaceae. Common names in English include wax apple, Java apple, Semarang rose-apple and wax jambu. It is in the same family with Malay apple (Syzygium malaccense), water apple (Syzygium aqueum) and Rose apple (Syzygium jambo). Java apples are rich in nutrients such as protein, vitamin C, thiamin, niacin, dietary fiber, vitamin A, protein, calcium, phosphorus, citric acid, calcium, iron, sulfur and potassium. Vescalagin, a chemical compound found in Syzygium samarangense has anti-hypertriglyceridemic and anti-hyperglycemia activities which are helpful in reducing blood sugar as well as triglyceride levels. It is one of the best fruit for diabetes patients. The fruit also contains an alkaloid called jambosine found to be effective against diabetes by regulating the conversion of starch into sugar, controlling sugar levels in the body and helping people with reduced pancreatic activity. The plant possesses anti-fungal and antibiotic activities against Staphylococcus aureus and Mycobacterium smegmatis. The fruit is rich in fibre, so it helps in resolving constipation. It helps in hydrating the body because of its high water content. At the same time, it is helpful for the digestive process, in addition to lowering cholesterol. The extracts of the flower and bark have potent free radical scavenging, antioxidation, anti-mutation and anti-cancer activities. The leaves are used as tea and are proposed as a possible supplement for type II diabetes patients. The plant has been studied for its numerous pharmacological properties such as antioxidant and anti-diabetic properties, anti-inflammation and anti-nociceptive activity, wound healing activity, anti-ulcerogenic effect, anti-bacterial and also its potential as an uterotonic agent. The ripe, pink fruits of Java apple are bell-shaped, sweet and can  be  eaten fresh or cooked as sauces,  jams, jellies desserts, wines, liquors, and vinegars. The fruit can be used to treat high blood pressure and several inflammatory conditions, including sore throat and can also be used as an anti-microbial, anti-scorbutic, carminative, diuretic and astringent. In Malaysia, the green fruits are eaten raw with salt or cooked as a sauce. The whole plant has a variety of medicinal uses which range from dermatological, digestive, head and throat to endocrine remedy. In Malaysia, powder from the dried leaves is applied on cracked tongue, while a preparation of the roots is used to cure itching, given to alleviate swelling, to treat dysentery and it serves as an emmenagogue and abortifacient. In Taiwan, people make java apple soup with crystal sugar to treat cough without phlegm. The fruit is also served as a cold dish on banquets to relieve the effects of alcohol. Let us examine more of its benefits: Detoxifies the body: Java apples are special in such a way that they contain water, vitamins and minerals that serve as detoxifiers. This implies that they help to clean up the body system naturally by removing toxic substances or the resulting effects from the body. It improves skin health: The presence of certain components with anti-fungal and microbial effects in the apple makes it useful in preventing and  curing skin infections. The leaves can be squeezed and rubbed on the skin as it provides cooling effects on skin conditions such as smallpox and itching. Its vitamin C content has an effective role to play in collagen synthesis. Repairs body tissues: Regular consumption of this apple can help repair body tissues or damaged cells in the human body because it has a high amount of vitamin C content. Maintains a healthy heart: The flesh of the apple contains epicatechin that contributes greatly to lowering high blood pressure. Prevent attacks from free radicals: It has antioxidant properties that help to protect the body from free radicals attacks. These antioxidants also help to mop up all the free radicals that already exist in the body and terminate chain reactions in order to prevent damage to important molecules. Maintains bones and teeth: Necessary for bone health because they contain calcium to a certain percentage which helps to maintain healthy teeth and bones as well as prevent osteoporosis. Magnesium, phosphorus, and potassium which play vital roles in bone formation and keeping the teeth healthy are also present in reasonable amounts. Good for body hydration: Hydration is the major process that sustains human life because potential loss of fluid can be life-threatening. Java apple helps to keep the body hydrated due to the amount of water content in it. By hydrating the body, it keeps the body temperature normal, flushes waste products from the body because of good urine production and keeps the body always lubricated. Java apple helps keep pregnant women hydrated. There are inevitable health conditions such as nausea and vomiting which can cause dehydration. Conclusively, it contributes to maintaining fluid balance which is the major aspect of homeostasis in living organisms. The analgesic, antidepressant and anti-inflammatory properties were investigated in a study titled, “Evaluation of analgesic, anti-inflammatory and CNS activities of the methanolic extract of Syzygium samarangense leaves,’’ by Mollika et al. The results of the experiments show that the methanolic extract of Syzygium Samarangense leaves may be used as an alternative or supplementary herbal remedy   analgesic, anti-inflammatory and anti-depressant. In another study titled, “Syzygium samarangense Volatile Oil Inhibited Bacteria Growth and Extracellular Protease of Salmonella typhimurium,’’ by Folorunso et al, an assessment was done on the volatile oil of Syzygium samarangense to see if it can  inhibit  bacteria growth. The reports from this study show the promising benefits of the volatile oil extracted from the dried leaves of S.samarangense as an antimicrobial agent. In a study titled, “Anti-proliferative and apoptotic activities of syzygium samarangense (wax apple) fruits extract against human a549 lung cancer cell lines,’’ by THAMPI et al, the methanol extract at different concentrations were tested against A549 human lung cancer cell lines for cell viability or cytotoxicity. The methanol extract, through morphological analysis using PI staining procedures, showed that the extract was able to trigger cell death through apoptosis even at low concentrations. When it is in season, it is always a mixture of Malay apple (Syzygium malaccense), water apple (Syzygium aqueum) and Rose apple (Syzygium jambo). Whichever one you see, eat. They are all good. Do not forget that the leaves are also medicinal. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com