There are indications that the South-East security outfit, Ebube Agu, may still be elusive as the five governors in the region have yet to agree on its operation. The Chairman of the South-East Security Committee, Major General Obi Umahi (retd.), had on June 4 resigned his position, citing the failure of the governors to fund the committee. Umahi in his letter of resignation disclosed that apart from the refusal of the state governors to fund the security committee, the committee, which was expected to recruit operatives for the outfit, had no office. The apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, expressed disappointment at the “lackluster attitude of the South-East governors” towards ensuring that the security outfit was operational. A spokesman for Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief Alex Ogbonnia, who spoke in a telephone interview with The PUNCH on Wednesday, called on the governors to immediately roll out the outfit that would assist the police and other security agency in crime fighting. He recalled that the group had at various fora advised the governors to roll out Ebube Agu, but regretted that about one year after, the governors had failed to work together. “We are not happy. This is a setback, which is very disturbing. I am sure that it will not continue to be like that; something has to be done,” he added. Ogbonnia, however, explained that Ebube Agu was meant to help in creating uniformity in the operation and coordination of security in the region. The Anambra State Commissioner for Information and Public Enlightenment, C-Don Adinuba, said though he had not been briefed on the security outfit, the state was peaceful, especially with the presence of vigilance groups working “effectively” with the police to protect the people. Also, a member of the Anambra State House of Assembly, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told The PUNCH that no bill on Ebube Agu was before the Assembly. He said, “What is Ebube Agu? Do we need a central security arrangement to protect our state? Do we have Fulani bandits in any forest in Anambra State? So, what are we doing with Ebube Agu? “Ebube Agu and Amotekun are all emotional things. Is Amotekun jointly financed by the governments in the South-West? So, we are not doing anything about Ebube Agu at the Assembly.” Speaking on the matter, the Imo State Government through its Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Declan Emelumba, said, “It is not right to say that the South East governors are not funding Ebube Agu. “The security outfit is newly formed, and it is not good to compare it with the Amotekun, which has been in existence for a long time. There are processes it (Ebube Agu) has to undergo to enable it to fully take off and these include legislation by the different Houses of Assembly in the South-East.” But the Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra dismissed the position of the state governments, saying they were afraid of the reaction of the Federal Government. The National Director of Information of MASSOB, Samuel Edeson, who spoke with The PUNCH, said, “The problem is that our so-called leaders are cowards. They are afraid of the cabal, the people who say they own Nigeria. For an example, if the Governor of Enugu should form Ebube Agu and it begins to operate in Enugu State, he will be queried from Abuja. “Some of them (governors) have political ambition in 2023, so they would not want such ambition to be jeopardised. They are afraid of the government in power, especially the Fulani cabal, because they are the people who decide what happens in the South-East.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com