Freight forwarding associations at Ports and Terminal Multipurpose Limited, Tin Can Island Port Complex, Lagos, have expressed support for the review of handling charges at the terminal by 50 per cent. PTML is a roll-on-roll-off terminal in Nigeria handling a sizable number of vehicles imported into the country. In a communiqué after a meeting with the Managing Director of PTML, Ascanio Russo, and his management team, the associations said special consideration must be given to PTML because it had not reviewed its charges for almost a decade. They also argued that the terminal operator must be supported to generate sufficient income to sustain the high quality of service being rendered at the facility. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents led by its PTML Chapter Chairman, Samuel Obe and Sunny Ugorji; the National Association of Government Approved Freight Forwarders, represented by its PTML Chapter Chairman, George Okafor and Thomas Alor, while Emma Ohambele and Chinedum Ogueke represented the Association of Registered Freight Forwarders of Nigeria. The communiqué said, “That the initial plan of 100 per cent from Grimaldi was considered but due to the effect it will bear on the importer it was agreed for 50 per cent increase. “After a thorough explanation from the management of Grimaldi Agency (owners of PTML Terminal) on the urgent need for this increase, 50 per cent was considered to be reasonable. That the acceptance of this increase is based on the ever increasing high cost of operations as can be seen by everyone in the industry. “Grimaldi undertook to increase their drive towards the provision of world-class logistics services to Nigeria and to provide more equipment and human management urgently where it is required. “Grimaldi assured the stakeholders that once they get the promised rebate from Nigerian Ports Authority as promised during the COVID-19 peak period, more provisions of equipment will be made that will lead to reduction in operational cost. “The representatives of the various associations enjoin members to go about their business peacefully as always and are assured that subsequently no increment will be made at the command without an interactive meeting.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com