The article written by the United States ambassador to Nigeria, H.E Mary Berth Leonard, with the above title and published in some newspapers is curious, because the distinguished ambassador certainly knows why “Taiwan remains excluded from international organisations such as the World Health Organisation…” The passionate advocacy of the U.S. envoy canvassed in the article with a spurious claim that “to prevent Taiwan’s participation in the WHA,” would “leave the world, the World Health Organisation, and Nigeria worse off”, does not ring true, especially in light of the fact that over 150 countries, including Nigeria, explicitly support the One China Policy and the fact that the WHO is an international organisation of only sovereign countries and Taiwan is not a sovereign country. Since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, the US was among the few countries to seriously turn down international cooperation to contain the pandemic and even walked out of the main international institution, the WHO, whose core mandate includes mobilising global solidarity in response to the pandemic. The US was among the first countries to evacuate her citizens out of the former epicentre of the disease, Wuhan and slammed border closure against all others. This early poor, hysterical and politically motivated response to the pandemic made the U.S. to pay an unnecessarily and obviously unavoidable high price for the rampaging pandemic. Now playing the Taiwan card is an extension of the U.S. politically motivated response to the pandemic but this more insidious and toxic variant, which aims at undermining sovereign and territorial integrity of a key member of the international community is dangerous. Nigeria would certainly not fall for it and this is why. Even though there is a wide room for extending the frontiers of China-Nigeria bilateral cooperation, the relation between the two countries is currently at its historic best. Nigeria took the firm and responsible position to reaffirm its One China Policy in 2017 when it expressly directed the Taiwan trade office in Abuja to relocate its office to Nigeria’s commercial hub in Lagos, after it was discovered the trade office was engaging in surreptitious political activities that undermined Nigeria’s One China policy which explicitly recognises that there is only One China in the world and that Taiwan is an inalienable part of China and that if there is any issue between the central government of the People’s Republic of China in Beijing and its region of Taiwan, it is the internal affair of China. Nigeria, however, has a trade agreement with Taiwan just as several Nigerian states have subsisting trade agreements with other countries in the world but without an iota of pretence to diplomatic representation. The 24 million residents of Taiwan are Chinese and if as a result of history leftovers, there are issues between the central government and the region, the Taiwan Island, that does not mean that both people across the straits are of different nationalities. Nigeria through its well-thought-out One China policy recognises that the 1.4 billion on the mainland and the 24 million on the island are of one Chinese nation under the sovereign state of the People’s Republic of China with its internationally recognised government in Beijing. However, a clique of extremely ambitious politicians in the Taiwan region of China seeks desperately to undermine the broadly shared sentiments among all Chinese people by canvassing an independent Taiwan. And the article of the U.S. ambassador to Nigeria seeks to lend support to the creation of two Chinas or One China, One Taiwan which offends not only the Chinese people across the straits but also global consensus on the One China policy, which the US affirmed in the joint Shanghai communique signed on February 27, 1972. Nigeria, as General Murtala Mohammed wrote to the U.S. President Gerald Ford in 1976, has come of age and can wisely decipher international issues and take a well-informed stand and the One China policy which has subsisted for more than 50 years is a deliberate practice of Nigeria’s foreign policy. If the US has decided against the trend of contemporary international system, which is essentially cooperation, to engage China in a Cold War as the body language of Washington indicates and the article of the U.S. ambassador suggests, Nigeria should make it known that the country does not intend to become any such theatre. To glamourise separatist activities anywhere in the world and even using Nigeria’s hospitable disposition to advance it, is to demonstrate insensitivity to the country’s current challenges which include separatists’ agitations. Nigeria and China’s pragmatic cooperation for elaborate practical and tangible outcomes has become part of the crucial fabrics of the respective national life of the two countries and therefore, obviously not available for disruptions. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com