Worried about the deteriorating security situation in the nation, a university professor and friend asked me a question:  “With Buhari as President, why is the security situation what it is?” He regularly asks me questions because he wants to hear the view of a journalist with a background in Political Science. This time, my initial response was, “The situation can’t be different from what it is because we don’t focus on what we need to as a nation.” My friend had stared at me, waiting to hear my reasons. What I state below is part of what I explained to him, and it includes observations I’ve made over the years about how we run our nation. Now, we see public officials make efforts to deal with the current security challenges. We hear as the President, Major General Muhamadu Buhari (retd.), explains to Nigerians what he’s been doing. We see the state governors too, when they do their bit in their corners as much as the constitution permits them. It’s only a person who imagines that a fellow human being can perform more than a human being can who wouldn’t sympathise with these office holders regarding their current dilemma. They may not have got it right, but we cannot state that they’ve not made moves. One must admit that there are security challenges we didn’t prepare ourselves for as a nation, and it’s when they happen we start to think of how to tackle them. That has its consequences, which we’re seeing. Also, there’s the manner we did things before this time. There’s a culture – culture of impunity, of corruption, of disregard for merit, standard, disregard for rules and regulations, tribalism, a culture of not recruiting people with passion for the profession into the security forces, rather those who want a job. These things have a way of affecting any effort a nation makes in its hour of crisis such as this one.  They affected us over the years but we ignored them, continuing in the path we did until the current security challenges arose. Now that we have an unusual challenge on our hands, caused by internal and external factors, I notice that we still don’t turn away from the manner we were doing things before. We don’t consider that this is part of the reasons we make moves with regard to our security challenges but we don’t get lasting results.  It means we are building new solutions to the current challenges on an old structure; it doesn’t matter who the leader is, we’ll get the same old result. I shall concentrate more on that second segment of my submission, and I will address it by using diverse examples. Over the years, government officials assured us that security equipment to combat insurgents were on their way from Western nations. They normally give details of what this involves: The time it takes manufacturers to make the equipment after request is made. The time it takes to deliver the equipment. The time it takes to train our men to use the equipment, etc. The last time President Buhari gave this explanation on the premises of the State House, it was obvious he wanted citizens to understand the reasons. That is, the reasons we have insecurity and Nigerians continue to live at the mercy of lawless elements. Critical minds though would ask questions, and probe what the President said. As the President spoke on that occasion, it occurred to me that he had regularly emphasised purchase of equipment needed to combat insecurity. But there are other aspects to combating insecurity. We know human beings use the security equipment purchased. The equipment are as effective as the men who use them. Combating crime is as effective as the men who engage in the combat. The condition of our security personnel requires a surgical operation. Considering the current dire situation, we aren’t seriously addressing this. We know the issues these officers have that negatively impact their dedication to duty. We have a serious systemic problem with regard to how their wellbeing is handled, but we carry on as though we don’t. The same bolts and nuts that should hold our security structure together and make it achieve are overlooked. State governors too are fond of purchasing operational equipment, and like the Federal Government they leave out the quality, the training, orientation, mentality and discipline of the men who combat crime. I don’t need to go into the details of the wellbeing of the nation’s security personnel. For a former president once visited a police college and his comment on the appalling condition there was what many of us debated on the pages of newspaper at the time.  However, the reader meets police officers, sees their condition, knows their plight. Officers say they have to tax road users in order to have money to take the corpse of their fallen colleagues to the village for burial. They tax to fuel operational vehicles. They tax to purchase stationeries for use in their stations. You report an offence and they tell you to provide the means of transporting them to the crime scene. They use their personal money to get to their station, and use personal money to get to their duty posts across town. New recruits are poorly trained in poor condition for three months, after which they’re sent onto our roads to start collecting bribes. The police force isn’t configured to handle anything beyond the ordinary. They operate like the typical civil servants – come to office, close, and go home. No intelligence gathering, no strategising, no plan for offensive attacks against criminals before they can strike, and officers are posted to other states before they utilise whatever local knowledge they’ve acquired.  Police operational vehicles are rickety, disused.  As for the army, the other week, new army recruits fresh from their training location, were transported in a convoy of rented commercial vehicles across town.  Even the Nigerian Army couldn’t afford decent means of transporting our boys who have signed off their lives to protect the rest of us. Soldiers once protested over poor welfare at the battlefront in the ongoing fight against insurgents.  That’s how we treat men we use in combating insecurity. Public officials are silent about these things, rather they talk about the fancy equipment they procure for police and the Joint Task Force Teams. The reader may imagine giving a new cloth to a hungry and angry man. If the recipient doesn’t sell the new cloth in order to get money to eat, they’ll keep it at the bottom of their box while they search for what to eat. The same day my university professor friend asked me the question, he had earlier told me of an encounter he had with a member of one of the security formations. He explained that the man said any new vehicle that found its way into the premises of the security formation was likely to lose its new engine, new tyres and anything sellable on it. No wonder security personnel are given shining new operational vehicles today, and they don’t have any roadworthy vehicles three months later. State governors know this to be true. But some of them are happy to keep quiet about it because the no-operational-vehicle excuse is an opportunity for them to purchase new ones. We know what accompanies purchasing anything in our public sector. The reader who knows the poor condition in which our security personnel operate would realise that we’re building something on nothing when we purchase equipment without improving the wellbeing of the men who will use them in the fight against crime. This has impacted morale and professionalism. Yet, we recruit regularly, make officers to suffer the same known indignities during training, after which we send them to combat criminal elements while we expect a different result. With the kind of determined lawless enemies we are faced with at this time, can we get results different from what we get? The alternative is for us, as usual, to wish the current state of insecurity will just disappear and we continue in our old ways. This can’t happen considering the external realities around us stretching from Libya to West Africa. As such, the President needs to find the neglected bolts and nuts and add them to his strategy. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com