A pupil of Bridge International Academy, Badagry, Emmanuel Avoseh, has been given a N15m Supreme-Bridge Full Scholarship Award for his secondary education. Speaking during the award presentation ceremony which was held at the Bridge Nigeria’s support office, the principal of Supreme Education Foundation Schools, Mr Iheanyichukwu Akwitti noted that Avoseh was outstanding in both the Supreme scholarship entrance examination and subsequent interview process. He said, ”The Supreme Education Foundation scholarship scheme is designed to bridge educational inequalities resulting from geographic and socio-economic differences and give deserving students the opportunity to attend SEF which provide world-class education in an exciting learning environment. “Emmanuel, who currently is in primary six sat for the Supreme scholarship examination with other brilliant pupils across Lagos before earning the coveted slot.” Akwitti noted that the scholarship covered Emmanuel’s full boarding, tuition, books, uniforms and other resources for his secondary education at the Supreme Education Foundation school. The managing director, Bridge Nigeria, Ms Foyinsola Akinjayeju, stated that Bridge believed that a child’s potential should not be limited by their socio-economic status. She added that it was for this reason SEF decided to support low income families with access to life changing education and scholarship opportunities. Akinjayeju said, “The scholarship will no doubt go a long way in the life of Emmanuel and his parents, and inspire other pupils who aim to achieve such a feat.” Emmanuel’s mother, Mrs Oluwakemi Avoseh who is a single parent said the scholarship would greatly reduce the financial burden of training her four children single-handedly. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com