The Nigeria Labour Congress may reactivate the strike which it earlier suspended in Kaduna State over the sacking of workers by Governor Nasir El-Rufai. The NLC expressed regret that after signing a memorandum of understanding with workers, the Kaduna State Government had allegedly gone ahead to impugn all the clauses in the agreement freely entered with it. The President of the NLC, Ayuba Wabba, raised these issues in a letter to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), through his Chief of Staff, Prof Ibrahim Gambari. The letter titled ‘Re: Refusal of Kaduna State government to honour and respect the MoU signed at a meeting brokered by the Minister of Labour and Employment,’ was obtained by journalists on Friday night. The infractions included the refusal of the Kaduna State Government to honour the MoU signed at a meeting brokered by the Minister of Labour and Employment, continuous violation of workers’ rights as provided in the labour laws, and the punitive transfer of the state chairperson of NLC. Others were sacking of workers who partook in the warning strike, violation of a “no victimisation” clause in the signed agreement, and non-adherence to and disrespect for the rule of law. Wabba said, “Your Excellency, Mr President, the National Executive Council of the NLC on May 25, 2021, resolved that in case the Kaduna State Government remains adamant and recalcitrant or continues to pursue the path of war, threats and punitive actions against workers and their interests, it had given the National Administrative Council the power to reactivate the suspended strike action in Kaduna State and also call for the withdrawal of services of all workers in Nigeria without any further notice. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com