The Lagos State Government has applauded the innovations exhibited by the Girl in Tech Bootcamp programme, stating that the initiative will help fast track the digitalisation of the state’s operations and fuel technology-driven innovations to transform it into a 21st century digital economy and smart city. The Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwolu, said the initiative by the Eko Innovation Centre aligned with his administration’s six strategic development agenda namely, Traffic Management and Transportation, Health and Environment, Education and Technology. According to a statement issued by the centre on Friday, Sanwo-olu said this during his visit to the second edition of ‘Girls in Tech Bootcamp Lagos’. The governor was quoted to have said, “Technology will give us the opportunity to leapfrog.” He said that empowering women would greatly help transform the state considering how they were dedicated to work and how their impact were always felt when they embarked on a task. Speaking at the special event, Founder of Eko Innovation Centre, Victor Afolabi, said achieving a smart city and inclusion of more women in technology was the aim of its partnership with Africa Agility on Girl in Tech Bootcamp Lagos. Afolabi said, “Eko Innovation Centre is an innovation hub committed to accelerating the growth of businesses, leveraging technology at the core of their operations. “So, we are positioned as an accelerator within the tech ecosystem. We help startups develop and accelerate their go to market strategy. “For this year, we have partnered with Africa Agility to equip the Nigerian female youth with the necessary digital skills they need to access opportunities in tech and business. We trained 100 girls last year and another 100 this year as part of the Girls in Tech initiative. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com