As rescuers search through the debris of a deadly South Florida condo collapse for a sixth day on Tuesday, families and friends of those still unaccounted for are desperately seeking information about their loved ones and investigators are trying to figure out the cause. CNN reports that at least 11 people have died in the partial collapse of Champlain Towers South in the beachfront community of Surfside, and 150 remain unaccounted for following the tragedy. More than 136 people have been accounted for, according to Miami-Dade Mayor Daniella Levine Cava. The deceased range in age from 26 to 82. “It’s hard to stay composed,” Shelly Angle, whose friend Elaine Sabino lived on the building’s top floor and has not been found, told CNN on Tuesday. Angle said she is holding onto “the glimmer of hope that just maybe somebody survived.” As the search and rescue effort continues, the safety of emergency workers at the site is raising concerns. Surfside Mayor Charles Burkett told CNN’s John Berman on Tuesday that debris had fallen from portions of the building that remain standing. “Overnight they did have some stuff falling down from the building that’s still standing and that’s going to have to be addressed,” he said. A six-person team of federal officials from the National Institute of Standards and Technology — consisting of scientists, structural engineers and a geotechnical engineer — is conducting a preliminary investigation of the collapsed building’s materials, history and applicable building codes at the time the condo was built, the ground surrounding the building and numerous other factors, according to an agency official. As investigators converge on the scene, questions are being asked about the building’s structural integrity. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com