One Ekemimi Akpan, a resident of Ibesikpo Asutan Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State has been rescued by security operatives after they had foiled a robbery attack on the Drainage View Hotel located in Ibesikpo Asutan LGA. A black Toyota 4 Runner Hilux with Reg. No. BWR 561 HK and one OPEL car with Reg. No. KEF 306 AA belonging to the rescued victim were recovered at the scene. The attack was foiled by the combined team of the Quick Intervention Unit and the Anti-Kidnaping Squad of the Ibesikpo Asutan Division. A statement by the command’s Public Relations Officer, Odiko Macdon on Tuesday titled, ‘Akwa Ibom Police command repelled robbery Operation,’ said the hoodlums on sighting the operatives took to their heel and escaped through the high gate. The statement read in part, “On 1st June 2021 at about 12.00am, based on a distress call received from Command Control Room of an ongoing armed robbery attack at Drainage View Hotel, Nung Oku in Ibesikpo Asutan Local Government Area, Operatives of Ibesikpo Asutan Division, Quick Intervention Unit and Anti-Kidnapping Squad were swiftly mobilised to the scene which was invaded by unidentified hoodlums. “On sighting the Police Operatives, hoodlums started shooting and escaped through the back fence and abandoned a black Toyota 4 Runner Hilux with Reg. No. BWR 561 HK reported to have been stolen at gunpoint at Ultimate Filling Station, Ibesikpo Asutan Local Government Area, on 29th May 2021 at about 11.45am. “The Operatives also recovered one OPEL car with Reg. No. KEF 306 AA belonging to one Ekemini Offiong Akpan of Ikot Akpan Abia Village in Ibesikpo Asutan Local Government Area who was shot on his left hand in an attempt to snatch the said vehicle from him. The victim was rescued by the Operatives and taken to the hospital for treatment.” The statement quoted the command as assuring members of the public that it would spare no effort in ensuring that peace and tranquillity reign in the state “The Command wishes to assure members of the public that it will spare no resources in ensuring that there is continued peace and tranquillity in the state and will make the state too hot for criminals to hibernate and perpetuate their nefarious activities.” It further called on owners of the said recovered vehicle to visit Ibesikpo Asutan Divisional Police Headquarters with proof of ownership for identification and collection.