The Synagogue Church of All Nations has promised to sustain the legacy of its late founder, Prophet Temitope Joshua, aka TB Joshua, adding that his humanitarian works will not die. The church also said since the televangelist’s death was announced, it had received tributes from 195 countries, adding that its followers on Facebook had increased by over 600,000. The SCOAN asked the public to disregard reports about anyone succeeding the charismatic leader, saying there was no such development yet. The church stated these in Lagos on Tuesday during a press briefing to officially announce programmes for his burial. The briefing, led by a Briton, Dr Gary Tonge, also had members of the church, Ayodeji Olabiwonu, Col. Andy Aniboli and Ugochi Aluka in attendance. TB Joshua died on Saturday, June 5, 2021, just seven days to his 58th birthday. Tonge, who is a friend of the ministry, said TB Joshua’s death was by divine will. He said, “His supernatural home call was met with an outpouring of millions of testimonies and tributes from 195 countries – representing every tribe, every tongue and every nation on the face of the earth. “The news of his departure also led to an increase of 600,000 followers on the TB Joshua Ministries Facebook Page, reaching a total of 6,200,000 — the largest of any religious figure in Africa.” While fielding questions from journalists, Tonge described Joshua as a passionate and single-minded man who followed Jesus Christ. “If you want to know how he impacted me the most, it was his refusal to be distracted by whatever the situation around was, whether it was criticism. He made the decision that he would stay through to God with whom he had a covenant and that had a massive effect on those around him,” he added. According to the burial programme released by the church, there will be a candle light procession in honour of the cleric on July 5, followed by a tribute service (July 6) and a service of songs (July 7). The lying-in-state is slated for July 8, from 11am to 5pm, and the interment will be in Lagos the following day. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com