In a video which went viral on Saturday, a notorious bandit operating within the precincts of Zamfara forest boasted about his operations and exploits against the Nigerian military. The bandit, identified as Dankarami (meaning ‘Small’ in Hausa), was seen holding a rifle while surrounded by a crowd and granting an interview to some persons. In the video which lasted four minutes and 40 seconds, the dreadlocks-wearing bandit was seen boasting about some of his exploits, especially ambushes against military convoys. It was not clear when the video was shot but it is believed to have been shot a few months ago. The amateur video is believed to have been taken in Zurmi forest, where Dankarami holds sway. He told his listeners, “My strength and that of Allah gives me success. Fire! Anyone who touches it knows that it’s not sweet. I swear, they left us alone. That is why I came here. “I called the Emir, who was removed and now lives in Gusau. I told him to let us live in peace. I told him I did not come back home for terrorism. “I came home to live in peace with my parents. If he hears there is trouble anywhere and I’m involved, he should call our parents to speak to us, but his reply was that he could never live with a terrorist. Was that not so? “I switched off my phone, removed my SIM card and since then, I only use the phones of my boys to call.” Dankarami further said, “After three months, they brought in soldiers and took them to Dumburum. I allowed them. My house was under the road they passed; I let them. “I relocated my wives and stayed alone with my boys. One evening, on the fourth day, on their way from Gusau, I dealt with them (soldiers). “They sent another team and I killed half of them. Another evening, they ambushed my brothers who were bringing me supplies and seized their motorcycles. They joined forces with Niger State. I dealt with them. I’m still here till tomorrow. “No one can arrest me unless I let them. Whatever they (my boys) want to do, they won’t do until I say so. The other day, they went to Zurmi and kidnapped children, small children. I was sleeping at home; they said there were 40 people. I took them back. Since our parents pleaded with us to return the children, did we collect a single naira? Did anyone give us anything? “So, if I give my word to a person, if the person rejects or accepts it, it’s fine, I don’t care. I can only say this: no love exists between me and those people across the road to the North. Everyone knows, I have no business with them. My boys don’t operate along Jaja, where they kill innocent people. We don’t kill innocent people.” It was not clear if Dankarami’s claim of some children was in reference to 40 children kidnapped alongside 160 others from a school in Niger State in May 2021. For the past five years, the northwestern part of Nigeria has become engulfed by attacks carried out by bandits, who have carried out vicious attacks on local communities, killing scores of people, and kidnapping as many as they can for ransoms. Zamfara, Katsina, and Kaduna states are the epicentres of the growing crisis. In the first half of 2020 alone, at least 1,126 people were killed by bandits in northern Nigeria, according to Amnesty International. In the last six months, hundreds of students have also been kidnapped in at least five separate incidents. In some cases, students have been killed by their kidnappers even after ransoms were paid. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com