The Nigeria Football Federation says it will help championing the fight against misinformation and fake news in the country. NFF president Amaju Pinnick stated this during the inauguration of the federation’s Media and Publicity Committee in Abuja on Wednesday. Pinnick, who was represented by a member of the NFF Executive Committee, Ibrahim Gusau, charged members of the committee to be in the forefront of the fight against fake news. He said the biggest battle nowadays was tackling fake news and half truths spread mostly on social media. “You are all veterans in the profession and we believe you have the capacity to tackle the demon of misinformation and project the many positives of the NFF and the national teams, and Nigerian football at large. I promise that the NFF will support you in coming up with feasible plans and programmes to achieve your mission,” Pinnick said. NFF General Secretary, Dr Mohammed Sanusi, also pledged the secretariat’s full support for the committee. “Our responsibility is to work closely with your committee to achieve your aim and objectives. Never hesitate to request for any information you need from us. We will back you to the hilt to always counter misinformation with the true position of things and escalate globally the positive developments around Nigerian football,” Sanusi said. Committee chairman, Aisha Falode, promised that they would give their best to support the federation’s activities. Also at the inauguration were Alhaji Ahmed Yusuf Fresh, member of the NFF Executive Committee; Kunle Solaja (member); Toyin Ibitoye (member); Dapo Sotuminu (member); Promise Efoghe (member); Niyi Alebiosu (member) and Ademola Olajire (secretary). Other members of the committee are Felix Anyansi-Agwu (vice chairman); Tony Ubani (member); Shuaibu Mungadi (member); Gowon Akpodonor (member) and Nasiru Zaharadeen (member). Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com