The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority has cautioned pilots against unfriendly weather, especially during the rainy season. According to the NCAA, the caution is a follow up to the advisory circular with reference number AC: NCAA-AEROMET-31 addressed to all pilots and airline operators and signed by the Director General, Captain Musa Nuhu. In a statement issued by the authority on Wednesday, the regulatory body noted that pilots have been cautioned over severe thunderstorms and other hazardous weather which hamper flight operations especially within the rainy season. It said, “This is coming on the advent of the Seasonal Climate Prediction released by the Nigerian Meteorological Agency for the year 2021. “NIMET has predicted early/late March as the commencement of the rainy season in the Southern states, while late April/June 2021 is the commencement of the rainy season in the Central and Northern parts of Nigeria.” The statement noted that the weather advisory circular was essential in managing the effects of rainy season on safety and efficiency of flight operations. According to the statement, air traffic controllers may temporarily close the airspace when the conditions warrants. It said pilots were to exercise maximum restraint whenever adverse weather was observed or forecast by NIMET. Pilots and flight crew members were also to obtain adequate departure, enroute and destination weather information and briefing from NIMET Aerodome Meteorological Offices prior to flight operations. It said, “The Authority enjoins all passengers to exercise patience and understanding during this period of heavy downpour.” It added that strict compliance to the warning was expected from all stakeholders as maximum sanction would be imposed for non-compliance. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com