Popular Nigerian entertainer, Denrele Edun, has revealed one of the worst moments of his life. The eccentric TV host, via his verified Instagram handle, relived the moment his mother caught him pants down with his then-girlfriend. According to Edun, the incident happened in 1999 when he was 18 years old. Sharing one of his throw back pictures, he wrote, “1999. I was 18. When it comes to my list of sex nightmares, my mum walking in on me probably tops d list! I was dating one of the hottest girls in my hood (Ebute Metta) then, but my Mum was unimpressed! She just couldn’t stand the sight of the girl but I didn’t give a flying f**k! I was 18 and damn well was gonna enjoy adolescence. “One fateful Tuesday (after so much strategic planning), I had arranged for this chic to meet me up at d house. 6:30 PM sharp! My Dad and younger sisters would have gone to choir practice; my Grandma and evil cousins were at Bible Study and my Mum would have gone to her MFM Prayer Warrior Service. “Baby girl and I were going to do the ‘Deed’ after weeks of endless ‘petting’, ‘making out’ and ‘groping genitalia’!”(sic)
Recounting the incident, Edun, said that his mother entered the dimly lit room where he was making out with the girl and caught them in the act. “Long story cut short; We were going at ‘it’ in the dimly lit living room when my Mum walked in on us. ‘Shit!’ as we jumped off each other. Me scrambling to wear my pants and my babe covering her full breasts to my Mum’s glaring disapproval and disgust. “‘So, this is what you’ve been coming to do in this house’, my mum said calmly at her. (Tiwa Savage style).” (sic)
The TV host turned actor noted that he had to ‘defend’ his lady when his mother caught them naked together.
Edun continued, “Omo, I stood tall and faced her. I was 18. I could talk back. ‘She came to greet me. Why aren’t U in church?’, I retorted. My mum muttered something in her Indian dialect and left. I knew trouble was brewing but HIAN! “Baby girl, on the other hand, was shaking so bad. Saw her off to the junction & she went home.” (sic) Although his mother did not react to the incident that day, Edun revealed that when his mother decided to react weeks later, she embarrassed him in public, in the presence of all his friends and schoolmates. He said, “Fast forward to a few months after; I had planned a massive party in the area with another friend of mine (late Abass, RIP) and as it was my 1st year in UNILAG, turnout was MADT! Peeps were photocopying the I.Vs and we were feeling FLY! “Halfway into the rave, my Mum walked in and I could sense something was amiss but was caught up rocking babes on the dance floor. My mum took the microphone from the DJ and faced the crowd. Omo, she finished me that night! She spoke about my bedwetting back in the day, my lazy antics… In short, she open my yansh, De-REP me FINISH! I was so embarrassed. “Her parting shot; ‘You have 5 mins to finish whatever nonsense you’re doing here and come wash the dirty dishes u left at d backyard!’. I’m laughing now but Mehn, it wasn’t funny then!”(sic)