Insecurity is posing a risk to telecommunications infrastructure in Nigeria, stakeholders in the industry have said. A former President of the Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria, Olusola Teniola, highlighted the threat in a telephone interview with our correspondent. He said, “There is heightened insecurity. The reasons MTN recently gave had to do with personnel. It is something that has been well understood in the industry. “During the height of the Boko Haram bombings, there was destruction of towers in Borno. When I was president, the industry was very careful in sending personnel to areas with security challenges. “Insecurity is the concern of the industry as a whole, not just MTN. Insecurity has escalated beyond what is normal, and telco infrastructure will suffer.” Reuters recently reported that MTN said insecurity challenges was going to cause a disruption in its services. A message purported to have come from MTN said, “Sadly, we must inform you that with the rising insecurity in different parts of Nigeria, service delivery to your organisation may be impacted in the coming days.” In an official statement, MTN said it was only informing customers of potential disruptions in a timely manner, whether due to maintenance on the network, outages due to faults or other circumstances that may pose a risk, enabling them to plan appropriately and put in place business continuity measures. However, a telecommunication engineer who pleaded anonymity said there had been unreported cases of kidnappings and in some cases killings of telco engineers. He said, “There have been instances of kidnappings of telco engineers, but they are unreported. I don’t know how they resolve this issue. “Even though the NSCDC accompanies engineers to site, it is still not enough. I had gone with military personnel to sites in Delta. Basically, telcos perform security assessment before we go for any assignment in the North especially. “They also ask their engineers to be on the lookout for anything suspicious. If it a high prone security area, the telcos waive off the project. “Once it is a security risk area, the project is waved off, and service disruption occurs. Most times, the telcos source for an indigene to do the work. But in most cases, the infrastructure is left alone.” Reacting to this, the Deputy Commandant General in charge of Critical National Asset and Infrastructure for the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corp said, “I am not aware of any kidnappings. If there has been any, it was unreported. “Generally, we provide protection for the assets of the telecoms industry. We provide protection for telecoms facilities.” He added that telecommunication infrastructure had been classified as critical national infrastructure. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com