The Iyalode of Yorubaland and Egbalnd, Alaba Lawson, tells DAUD OLATUNJI about her career, how she wished to be a stage actress, her chieftaincy titles, business and other issues You were once the president of Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture. What were your duties? My duty was to monitor the chambers of commerce throughout the country and make sure that their activities, as they relate to trade and other areas of the economy, were protected. Also, being with NACCIMA being a voice of the organised private sector in Nigeria, we were saddled with making sure that things worked well economically. You were the first female president of NACCIMA. What legacy did you leave behind? I was the 19th president and that made me feel proud. It made me to work hard and I thank God that I was able to leave a good legacy. Just last week in Abuja, I was given an award of excellence for my achievements in NACCIMA. Part of my achievements was the creation of ‘NACCIMA Youth Entrepreneurs’. Youths are the future leaders of our great country and we must be able to teach them and carry them along in anything we do. By the time the older generation leaves the stage, they (youths) would be able to fit in. That was what inspired that initiative and I ensured it was replicated throughout the country. As part of my achievements, I made sure I put certain things in place at our headquarters in Lagos. By the time the place was completed, everybody knew that things had changed. The building is in a water-logged area and any time there was rain, we would be unable to access the office. However, that is now in the past. Everywhere has been taken care of. I was also the global convener of the NACCIMA Business Women Group, which was created in 2005. We travelled around the country, making sure that women were well exposed. In what practical ways is NACCIMA contributing to the betterment of society? NACCIMA has contributed a lot to the economy of this country in terms of engaging in dialogue with the government, even up to the level of the National Assembly. We exchange ideas on policies with the government and have regular meetings with them. As Iyalode of Yorubaland, you are the president pro-tempore of the Forum of Female Traditional Rulers in Nigeria. What does this entail? It entails a lot of things, traditionally and culturally. We ensure women are treated properly and that they take their rightful places in society. Also, we form women cooperatives to ensure that they (women) can help their communities. Women play very important roles in society, so we make sure that in case of any eventuality, they are equipped to face whatever challenge comes their way. We rarely have female traditional rulers in Nigeria. Do you think that situation can change? I don’t think it will change. In most places, except in few parts, female kings only sit on the throne pending when another male is ready to take over the throne. However, I really don’t know why that is so and I am still asking questions. With my titles as Iyalode of Egbaland and Iyalode of Yorubaland, I am like the ‘king’ or ‘prime minister’ of women. Different names were attached to my title but I feel the most important thing is to provide opportunities for women, so that they can look after their families and contribute to society. You attended St. Nicholas Montessori Teachers’ Training College at Prince’s Gate, England. What stirred your interest in academics? My foray into academics was divinely orchestrated. When I left school, I actually wanted to become a stage actress. I had gone to England to have a baby. But, while at a recreational park, a group of children came in and they were talking to one another. Somehow, it struck a chord in me. I tried to shrug it off but it never left my mind. I have come to realise that when God wants one to do something, it would eventually work out.  44 years after I established my school, we are still waxing stronger. What can you recall of your time at Queen’s Gate Montessori Nursery School and Mill Hill Nursery and Junior School, where you taught in the UK and how is the system there different from what obtains in Nigeria? It is different because they have teaching materials for children in different age groups. Things like that make children learn easily. That is one thing that can make a difference between learning here and there. Another one is the number of children in classes. There should not be too many students in a class. That is a way of bringing children out of their cocoons to learn. Also, the (UK) government supports children from birth till when they are 10 years old. The government gives them milk and eggs, which helps to develop their brains properly. Those are basically the differences between the systems of education in both countries. What were the challenges you faced when setting up your school? One of the challenges was posed by people that came (for inspection) from the Ministry of Health. I had to uproot all the flowers in the school’s premises then. They (health officials) said it was poisonous to the children. I felt reluctant and I told them we could teach the children not to touch those flowers but they insisted that the flowers should be removed. Also, I thank my brother-in-law, the late Chief Adeyemi Lawson, for being a good mentor to me because he gave me that property to use. Today, the rest is history. How were you able to build the school to the height it currently is? In every aspect of my life, God has been so good to me. While I was at the teaching college, the testimonial given about me was that I was outstanding in my studies and that I had the ability to keep the children working together. They also stated that they were looking forward for what I was going to accomplish with young children in Nigeria. They must have seen certain qualities in me, which resulted in that testimonial. A lot of young people don’t like to study Education or become teachers. What do you think can be done to change that, considering the importance of quality teachers in society? The system of teaching in Nigeria needs to be changed because what they are doing now is a sort of crash programme for teachers. I think we need to go back to the days of ‘grade two’ teachers, who went through theoretical and practical training. After they had been taught in classes, they would go to different schools for practical training. It is the feedback from those practical sessions that would make one a good teacher. Personally, I would prefer to hire a grade two teacher than a graduate because the former must have gone through practical training. Whatever one learns during practical sessions usually stick to one’s brain. One would also know how to present one’s subject to students and the pace at which to teach so that the children can fully understand what is being taught. As regards young people no longer interested in teaching, it is because they believe that teachers are poorly paid. However, that is no longer the case. What changes would you like to see in the country’s education sector? I would love a situation where all stakeholders (in the sector) are carried along. We (educationists) just hear about policies. They (government) don’t even care about carrying other stakeholders along. We need to work together as a team. It is those of us in the system that know what should be done because we are on the field. What were your contributions as the Chairman of the Moshood Abiola Polytechnic’s Governing Council? The first thing I did was to talk to the students in groups, and it took me almost three months to complete that task. I also worked assiduously with my team to eradicate cultism in the school. And, during my tenure, there were no cases of cultism. I emphasised it to the students that cultism destroys lives. Another thing I did was to make sure that lecturers were up to date because one cannot give what one does not have. Also, by God’s grace, my team and I were able clear the 11-year backlog of graduations. In addition, I felt fulfilled that we were able to build a hall that could accommodate 1,500 students. However, one thing I started that I would have loved to complete was the boarding house we were building for the students. Unfortunately, the project is still at the stage where we left it. We also had a daycare centre and we bought new buses to make transportation easier for students. I also want to give kudos to a former governor of the state,  the late chief Olabisi Onabanjo, during whose tenure the large expanse of land for the school was acquired. It shows that they had foresight. Do you agree with the government on ending the disparity between polytechnic and university graduates? It depends. Before they ‘marry’ both of them, the government needs to weigh the pros and cons. I think they are trying to change the scenario where one is made to seem inferior to the other. At the end of the day, it is the quality of graduates that matters. Considering that you already had a school, why did you decide to establish Capricorn Stores Limited? I was actually managing that business before I established the school. But, immediately I started the school, my father took over the management of the store. That way, I was able to dedicate enough time to the running of the school. It is better one faces one thing at a time and since I liked the school better, store faded away gradually. What do you regard as your greatest achievements as the President of the Ogun Council of Chambers of Commerce? I thank God for my life. When it comes to achievements, all glory belongs to God. I would rather other people talk about my achievements, so it does not seem like I am bragging. I had the opportunity of having the joint Odua Trade Fair and I was also able to establish the Ota/Agbara Chamber of Commerce. How would you describe your experience setting up Abestone Microfinance Bank? It is to help people in the grassroots, especially women who don’t need more than N20,000 or N50,000 to run their businesses. Women entrepreneurs, traders and other people have benefitted from the bank. However, I want to appeal to the Central Bank of Nigeria to think twice about the re-capitalisation of (microfinance) banks to N200m by next year. What do microfinance banks need that type of money for? We only serve our immediate community. I don’t think it is a wise decision for any government to raise the capital base from N20m to N200m. What are the most important business lessons you’ve learnt over the years? One needs to be tolerant and trustworthy. One’s integrity must also be maintained despite all odds. Who are your role models and people you admire? They include Iyalode Esther Tejuoso and Madam Kuti. I also have a role model in my mother, Mrs Ruth Jiboku. You were reportedly deposed as the Iyalode of Egbaland. How did that make you feel? Nobody deposed me. I challenge you to produce any letter where it was stated that I was deposed. I am still the Iyalode of Egbaland. I was installed on August 7, 1999, by the then Alake of Egbaland, Oba Oyebade Lipede. I have never been deposed and I still go to the palace to perform my duties. There was a time a rumour was carried that Titilayo Ajanaku had been installed as the new Iyalode but I don’t listen to gossips and I don’t gossip too. You have quite a number of chieftaincy titles. Why do you love them so much? There were some chieftaincy titles I rejected, while I accepted some. I strongly believe that whatever God has destined for my life would surely come to pass. It is not that I am so in love with chieftaincy titles. But, when I’m giving such titles, they must have seen something in me which they decided to honour. You are a well known socialite. How did the COVID-19 pandemic impact on your social activities? With my work as an educator, I should have people around me. But, at the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, especially during the lockdown, people were not able to go out. But, the situation is better now. At least, there is vaccination for the virus. Before COVID-19, how many parties and events did you attend monthly? There is time for everything. There was a time when there wasn’t any title and I was raising my children. But, time changes everything and now, my children have grown up. So, I have time to do whatever I want to do. I took good care of my children and I am happy with how they have turned out. I thank God for the way He helped me to bring them up with the necessary discipline in a Christian home. I have six sons and I thank God for their lives. They are all doing well in their various endeavours. How do you feel not having a daughter? I don’t query what God has given to me. I strongly believe that all of God’s plans for my life will be fulfilled at the appointed time. What are the fond memories you have of your childhood? My late father, Pa Emmanuel Jiboku, had the nickname, Tonatona (someone who puts on the light) because he worked with the then-Electrical Corporation of Nigeria for about 39 years. My mother was from the popular Aderupoko family. I really thank God for the lives of my parents. I grew up like a normal child and I was not born with a silver spoon in my mouth. However, the education they gave me is more important to me than anything else. What were your childhood ambitions? I actually wanted to become an actress. While in school, I was always on stage mimicking people and I was popular for that. I loved acting on stage because it gave me the opportunity to showcase my talents. However, I became an educationist and I don’t regret it. It is a huge responsibility to teach children and mould them into the leaders of tomorrow. How do you relax? I like listening to Christian music, especially when working in my garden. I used to love cooking when I was younger. I also like visiting elderly people, listening to their vast experiences. However, time does not permit me to do that again. How do you like to dress? I love blue and white, and what I wear depends on where I am going. What is your favourite food? I am a good cook and I like cooking a variety of meals. I particularly love eba and rice with ewedu. Ewedu is popular in Ogun State where I come from. What advice do you have for young girls as regards securing their futures? They need to work hard and prepare for the kind of future they want to have. They also need to know that integrity matters a lot. As females, they should always compose themselves in a disciplined manner, with etiquette and good character. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com