The Registrar and Chief Executive Officer of the Pharmacists Council of Nigeria, Dr Elijah Mohammed, has said the recognition of the pharmacy consultant cadre by the Federal Government will boost the services rendered to patients by pharmacists in the country. Mohammed said during a one-day sensitisation workshop organised by the Nigeria chapter of West African Postgraduate College of Pharmacists in collaboration with the PCN on the implementation of the pharmacist consultant cadre in the country. “Before now the practice of pharmacy in Nigeria and West Africa has been product-focused, but with growth in the pharmaceutical sciences, the new concept now in pharmaceutical care is patient-focused, in the sense of the impact of the drug on the patient. “What we are trying to do is to redefine pharmacy practice to be patient-focused. If you are getting a drug and you are making it available to a patient you need to know what impact it is going to have on that patient.  If this concept and doctrine are infiltrated into the mind of everyone, then the issue of fake drugs will not come up,” he said. The PCN boss said the goal of the Council was to redefine pharmacy practice to be specialised adding that generalisation of the practise was outdated. “You have to specialise, and when you do, you now become a consultant and you will have information on specific areas. You must zero down on the impact of that drug on the patient and that is why we are getting specialists in various areas to become consultants. “The consultant status can let them know this is specialists and can advice the patient and other health care providers on better service delivery,” Mohammed said. The Chairman of the Governing Council of the PCN, Prof.  Ahmed Mora, said the impact of the consultant cuts across public, private, and community practice. “This programme is to sensitise the public about the recently released circular by the Federal government recognising the pharmacist consultant cadre in the civil service. “It is to bring to the consciousness of the pharmacy Fellows that should benefit from the consultant cadre, their roles responsibilities, and expectations from them, and to educate other pharmacists who may want to join and enroll in the college,” Mora said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com