Wheelchair-bound victim of police brutality, Nduka Ekweke, 34, tells GODFREY GEORGE why he initially rejected the N7.5m compensation given him by the Lagos State Judicial Panel of Inquiry and Restitution for victims of SARS-related abuses and other matters What’s your name? My name is Nduka Ekwekwe. I am 34 years old. I am currently in a wheelchair, because of what operatives of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad did to me in 2018. I am from Abia State. My parents brought me to Lagos, and my dad, when he had health challenges, moved back to the village with my mother. What business were you into before the incident happened? I sold video CD for a while. Then, I moved on to learn a trade from a brother. We dealt in phone accessories. I served him for a number of years and my boss gave me some money to start up my own business. I started with a shop at Alaba International Market, and my business grew in leaps and bounds. I sent money home and was living quite comfortably. People knew me as a ‘strong hand’ in the business because I was doing very well, making good sales. What really happened on the day operatives of the disbanded Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad came to your shop? I was just at my shop taking stock of new goods worth over N8m, which came in from the wharf, when I saw about 20 men in front of my shop. I thought they were customers, so I went out to enquire from them what they wanted. They surrounded me and brought out a pair of handcuffs to cuff me. I asked them who they were and what I had done. I told them to come in and search my shop, that what I sold was not illegal, but they didn’t listen. Just as I was saying this, one of them slapped me and pushed me to the floor. People came from neighbouring shops to ask who they were, because they were not in uniform. That was when they brought out their jackets and donned them. The jackets had “F-SARS” boldly written on them. It was as if putting on the uniform was a kind of empowerment for them. They brought out teargas and threw it into the air to scare people away, while at the same time, they kept beating me so much that I could hardly breathe. They said they would take me to their station because they had an ‘intelligence report’ on me and my line of business. I followed them to their car as I knew I was innocent. On the way to Igando, the car stopped. I used the opportunity to bring out my phone to call my people, to tell them where I was and what was happening to me. That was when I knew that there was a very thin line between death and life. What happened then? Their commander seized my phone, smashed it to the ground and stepped on it. He used a dagger to stab me in the hand and my back and I began to bleed. I was brought to my knees. Some of his men were kicking me on the stomach, while others gave me heavy slaps on my back.  I had never known that much torture in my life; I am sure even criminals are not treated that way. The commander collected the N58,000 I had on me and put it in his back pocket. Sincerely, I didn’t know if they were SARS officials anymore or kidnappers, because the way they acted raised serious suspicion in my mind and I was wondering if I had entered into the hands of criminals. They pinned my head to the ground and hit it with the butts of their guns severally. I passed out and when I regained consciousness I saw myself at SARS headquarters in Ikeja. Were you given any medical care at their station? Medical care? (Snickers) They just dumped me in one of their cells and the torture continued once I regained consciousness. All my life, I had not had a cause to visit a police cell, because I obeyed all government laws. We were packed like sardines in an overcrowded cell. They did not even ask how I was faring, meanwhile the bleeding had not stopped. I was wondering whether someone sent them to assassinate me, because the torture was just too much. In the morning of the next day, they brought me out and began to cross-examine me. They asked about my car and my laptop and where I kept my gold jewellery. I told them I didn’t have a car and I didn’t even know how to use a laptop, as I am not literate enough to do so. I told them that I was trying to build a house for my family in Aba, Abia State, and buying a car would be too much of a luxury for me. They said I was uncooperative and the torture became worse. They took me to a different hall. What I saw them do to people, I cannot say – despicable things. What happened next? They stripped me naked and began to torture me again. And there was no provision for medical care considering the fact that you were bleeding? You sould have even asked me if I ate anything for those two days. I was hung and one ruthless officer used a club to hit my head. I kept telling them the same thing, because that was the truth – I didn’t own a car, a laptop or gold jewellery. One of the suspects in the cell told the SARS operatives to shoot me but they said it was not time for me to be killed yet. By evening, they handcuffed my hands and chained my legs and said we were going to my shop. Before we got there, about 20 men who were not in uniform were already there waiting with hammers. What time of the day was this? It happened at about 8pm, when it was dark and most shop owners were retiring home. What happened at the shop? They broke into my shop and looted my goods right in my presence. I tried to shout for people to come to my aid and help me stop them. My three shops and warehouse were filed with goods. They looted all the goods in my shops and warehouse. As I was shouting, their commander told them, “Keep him busy!” They then resumed beating me. My shops were on the second floor of a three-storey building. In the process of struggling to turn, to see if I could recognise the people carting my goods away, the SARS men pushed me from that second floor and I landed on the ground. If not for the way I was handcuffed from behind, I would have held something so that the fall would not be too bad. But I broke my back and that was how I ended up in this condition (in a wheelchair). How were you eventually released? My mother will be the one with details of my release. She traced me after someone told her that her child was being taken away by SARS operatives. Before they let her see me at the hospital where they dumped me, they demanded that she pay N50, 000 bribe to them, which she did. It was after the payment that they brought her to Ikeja Clinic, where I was dumped. How much have you spent in total to get yourself treated? From my last estimate, I have spent over N30m. I have sold everything I had – the building materials I bought to build my house in Aba, the remaining goods in my home and all my other properties. I used up all of my life’s savings. I have tried a lot of bone doctors, who came and promised me that I would be okay in two weeks or less. There was a physiotherapist from the Lagos University Teaching Hospital who came twice a month to help, and anytime he did, we paid him N12, 000. He came for two years and stopped when my condition was not improving. I tried another, who came and charged N60,000 for three months; the other collected N120,000 for a few months, too; another came and got N200,000, and when she saw she couldn’t do anything, she asked me to pay N300,000, which I did. That was the last time I saw her. She disappeared. I have indeed suffered. Everything I ever laboured for is gone. I even used our family land as collateral to lend money from thrift collectors, and they are threatening to take possession of this property as we speak. What are the doctors saying about the condition? Are you going to be able to walk again? Well, the doctors said I will be able to walk again. They said the SARS operatives told them that I was a notorious criminal, which was why they didn’t want to do their jobs as professionally as they should have. I was surprised when they said this before the #EndSARS panel. But if I can access a good sum of money, I can seek medical help abroad. You were called up by the Lagos State #EndSARS panel and given compensation of N7.5m, which you initially rejected. Why did you reject it? The truth is that the money will not even be enough to pay up the debts I have incurred, because of this condition. I am the breadwinner of my family. My father is in the village, suffering a partial stroke. My mother is with me in Lagos, taking care of me, since I am in a wheelchair and cannot care for myself.  My life was much easier when I was running my business. I was not a lazy person, and I am not used to sitting down at a place. My business was moving smoothly and I had begun a building in Abia State, where, I planned to rest whenever I visit the village on holidays or for occasions. So, you will understand why it is like I am in hell fire at the moment, because of this condition I have been in for over three years. All the money I had saved up over the years, I have spent on this condition. I really appreciate the efforts made by the Lagos State Government and I thank God that I have been vindicated that I am not a criminal as I was labelled by SARS. But I must tell you that the N7.5m will not do anything for me. The trips to the panel’s sittings for my case cost me nothing less than N500,000. How come you spent that much money just to get to the panel’s sitting? Well, the distance from where I live is far from the venue. I stay in Jakande. You know I am in a wheelchair and it wouldn’t be easy for me ‘jumping’ taxis or buses, like others. Whenever I was going for the hearing I chartered a vehicle which conveyed me to and from the venue. I have doctors, physiotherapists and caregivers who also come around to assist my mother, because it is not everything that she can handle on her own. She is over 60 years and she’s getting weak. We paid the lawyers too. How much did you pay them? We gave them N10,000, and sometimes N12,000 for their transportation. If you calculate all these expenses, it should be more than the N500,000 I just told you I spent. So, when I was offered the N7.5m, I did a quick calculation in my head and I knew that I would be back to square one if I collected the money, as it won’t be able to foot my piled-up hospital bills. The N7.5m to me was like I was offered N70,000 or N70. That was why I rejected it. It was not like I am not appreciative. I am. So, how much do you think you should have been offered? My lawyer said I need help from well-meaning Nigerians, because the government may not be able to do it alone. At least, money that will be able to take care of my medical bills and set me up in a business, so I can stand on my feet again. This is an appeal to Nigerians to, please, come to my aid. I cannot do this alone. I am not married. I have no children. I am my family’s only hope. I really need help. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com