The incessant violence in the South-East has continued to make residents panic. In Anambra and Ebonyi states, some of the residents who spoke with Saturday PUNCH expressed fear over the development. The assailants have attacked cops, police stations and burnt offices belonging to the Independent National Electoral Commission. Reacting to the situation, a lecturer at the Department of Mass Communication of the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Dr Henry Duru, described the situation as catastrophic. He said, “The insecurity in the land is becoming unusual. It compels one to fear that we may be heading to a catastrophic climax. I feel this way because these attacks appear unprecedented in this region both in terms of style and persistence.’’ He suggested rejigging of the security apparatus and gathering of intelligence from communities. “Again, communities should be engaged as they are in a better position to help furnish intelligence. Security agencies should work with volatile communities to fish out criminals as against intimidating and attacking the communities. This is the only way to earn their trust and secure maximum cooperation.’’ Killing and injuring people in a community could turn residents against the security agencies and they may develop sympathy with insurgents, further fueling the crisis. A public commentator residing in Nimo, in the Njikoka Local Government Area of the state, Jude Atupulazi, predicted a looming anarchy. He said, “The attacks in the South-East are assuming an alarming dimension which can only result in the total breakdown of law and order. But that is if such hasn’t already happened. When attacks are targeted at security personnel who are supposed to protect the citizenry, the result is that society becomes porous, with no one or nowhere to run to. Those behind these attacks are only extending an invitation to anarchy.’’ A rights group, The International Society for Civil Liberties and Rule of Law, blamed the rising insecurity in the region and its South-South neighbours on what he called the brute force often exhibited by security operatives in the area on the people. The group’s chairman, Emeka Umeagbalasi, said, “This led to killings, abductions and disappearances or feared unlawful execution…’’ A lawyer, Uchechukwu Nwafor, while condemning the attacks on security personnel and facilities in the area, said the situation would need extreme caution, diligence and professionalism to tackle. Maintaining that the command’s operatives had been professional in handling affairs with the public, the state Public Relations Officer, Ikenga Tochukwu, said in line with the directive of the acting Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba under “Operation Restore Peace”, measures had been put in place to stabilise security in the area. Tochukwu said, ““The operation will be carried out by operatives of the force in collaboration with the Armed Forces, the intelligence community and other sister security agencies. Also, the state Commissioner of Police, Chris Owolobi, had promised that the police would clamp down on criminals and forestall their activities in the state to restore peace in the area. Besides, an Ebonyi resident and social media activist, Nwoba Chika-Nwoba, said that the situation had affected farming and could further create a state of anarchy in the state if not urgently addressed. Chika-Nwoba, “This situation has affected farming in the zone with killer herders also causing mayhem.  I blame all these on leadership failure.’’ Thirty-year-old media practitioner, Samson Nwafor, noted that the development had created fear in the people, adding that nobody could go out freely to engage in their business anymore. He also said that popular markets in the South-East no longer opened for business because of the alarming situation. “This situation has caused fear in the people and because of that nobody goes out to do his business freely anymore. I fear that if this is not addressed we will have a state of anarchy and in anarchy, nothing works and people live in fear. I pray our leaders tame the situation quickly,” Nwafor added. Also, a public affairs commentator and Chairman, Media and Publicity. Bureau of Alaigbo Development Foundation, Chief Abia Onyike, also blamed leadership failure for the situation. Onyike noted that the situation was worrisome, adding that the trend portended doom not only for the state, but also the entire region. He said, “We appeal that we should return to genuine federalism. Of course, everybody is worried. Everybody is in fear about what the future portends for not only the South-East but also for the entire nation.” The state Commissioner for Police, Aliyu Garba, who condemned the attacks, said, “I urge officers and men of the command to remain calm and continue to manage the situation professionally.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com