Operatives of the Kaduna State Police Command have foiled bandits’ attempt to abduct an Indian national at Dankande Village in Igabi Local Government Area of the state on Monday night. However, one of the bandits was killed during the operation and the body recovered by a joint team of the Nigerian Army and the Police who combed the area on Tuesday. The state Police Command’s Public Relations Officer, Mohammed Jalige, gave a detailed account of the incident in a statement on Tuesday, He said four AK-47 rifle magazines fully loaded with one hundred and twenty rounds of live 7.62 X 39mm ammunition and a mobile phone were recovered from the lifeless body of the bandit. According to the police spokesman, the body of the bandit has been deposited in the morgue while the forensic analysis of the recovered phone is being carried out. Jalige said, “On the 21st June 2021 at about 2133hrs, while on escort duty of an expatriate to Plan Farm Phase at Dankande Area of Igabi LGA, Police Officers ran into an ambush laid by suspected armed bandits who, in their desperate attempt to kidnap the expatriate, shot indiscriminately at the officers which, however, was met with stiffer resistance from the operatives. “The gun duel lasted for some time but the operatives were able to repel the bandits and secure the Indian expatriate unhurt. Meanwhile, the bandits fled into the forest with bullet wounds. “A joint team of the Police and Military personnel, while on the search of the area today 22nd June 2021, recovered the lifeless body of one of the bandits, four AK-47 magazines fully loaded with one hundred and twenty rounds of live 7.62 X 39mm ammunition and a mobile phone. “The recovered body has been deposited at the morgue while forensic analysis of the said phone is being carried out with the view of getting more details on the gang, their activities as well as location for a possible dislodgement of their camps.” Jalige quoted the state Commissioner of Police, Umar Muri, to have commended the gallantry of the operatives while urging them to keep up the good job.