The Governor of Ondo State, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, on Saturday, said the only way to resolve the ongoing challenges facing the country was to adopt a true federal system of government. Akeredolu, however, noted that the challenges were surmountable provided that everyone in the country was sincere in tackling and finding a lasting solution to the problem. He stated this at the commemoration of the 28th anniversary of the annulment of the June 12 Presidential Election won by the late Chief M.K.O. Abiola. The event was held at the International Centre for Culture and Events on Saturday. According to him, the size and diversity of the country make it inappropriate to have too much power centred at the Federal Government. He said, “It is incongruous to have just a police command in a federal state such as Nigeria. The sheer size of the population, coupled with our diversity, makes this arrangement problematic. Every federating unit should have its own police for effective security. “Local government administration is the closest to the people and it is, ironically, the most withdrawn from the people it is created to serve. The Federal Government should have no control, whatsoever, over how a local government is run in a state of the federation. Local government cannot be autonomous, absolutely, within a state. Let every state determine the number of local governments it wishes to have for effective administration. “The civil service must respond to the current realities for relevance. Let the extent of wealth creation form the basis of establishing local administrations. It does not make any economic sense to create as many local governments as the politics of revenue sharing will permit. “Governors must be Chief Executive Officers answerable only to the people indeed. The law must empower them to harness the resources in their respective states for the benefit of those who voted for them. They must not be subjected to any external control as equal partners in a federation unless when it is absolutely necessary. “They must be able to mobilise the people for socio-economic activities with minimal interference from the government at the centre. This will enhance their ability to protect their people from rampaging marauders and other criminals who wreck their peace in perpetuity.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com