The valuation of six top Nigerian players has drop ahead of the summer transfer window, The PUNCH reports. The summer transfer window for 2021 will be reopened on July 1 and closes August 31. The players, who have already seen their market values drop significantly are Alex Iwobi, Victor Osimhen, Samuel Chukwueze, Alex Iwobi, Samuel Kalu and Henry Onyekuru. According to Transfermarkt, Osimhen, who joined Napoli for €81.3m, saw his valuation drop (by 38.5 per cent) to €50m. The 22-year-old scored 10 goals and made three assists in 30 games across competitions. His compatriot, Iwobi, who will be in his third season at Everton, also saw his valuation drop by 31.25 per cent from €32m to €22m. The 24-year-old scored once in 30 appearances last season and has bagged four goals in 64 games since his debut for the Toffees. Villarreal midfielder Chukwueze’s market value also dropped by 33.33 per cent from €30m to €20m, while Kalu’s valuation is now at €7m from €10m – a reduction of 30 per cent. Onyekuru, who spent the final part of last season on loan at Galatasaray, also saw his value crash down by 46.15 per cent (€13m to €7m). Speaking with our correspondent on the drop of the players’ valuation, football agent, Marshal Mbre, said it was down to their performance in the outgoing season and the effects of COVID-19 on the European economy. “This is down to two reasons – the players overall performance and the harsh economy in Europe at the moment,” Mbre told The PUNCH. “But with fans returning to the stadium in Europe now, I believe their valuation will increase again so long they improve on their performances at club level. “At the moment we can only boast of few players who were outstanding last season for their clubs. Wilfred Ndidi, Paul Onuachu, and Kelechi Iheanacho towards the end of the Premier League season are some of the players who did well; Iheanacho particularly, considering how he finished the season as Leicester City’s second top scorer with 12 goals, three behind (Jamie) Vardy following a poor start to the campaign.” Another Nigerian football agent based in Portugal, Paul Onomano, also shared Mbre’s thought. He said, “It’s just down to their performances, that’s all. Onuachu’s value rose because he shone for Genk last season, scoring goals, same goes for Marcus Abraham – a player who was valued at €100,000 and now a €1m player just because of his performance with CD Feirense.” Abraham, who made his debut for the Super Eagles in an international friendly against Cameroon last month, scored 11 goals in 26 games for Feirense in the Portuguese second division before his first Nigeria game. “Look at Chukwueze, for instance, his form has dropped, so will his valuation. His goal ratio has reduced from the time he broke onto the scene three years ago. The Villarreal winger scored five goals and made eight assists in 40 games – a far cry from the 10 goals and eight assists he recorded in his debut season with the Yellow Submarines in 2018. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com