The Federal Government on Tuesday inaugurated the National Research and Development Foundation Draft Executive Bill Committee, with a call on members to propose legislation that will ensure robust knowledge. Inaugurating the 11-man committee in Abuja, the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, lauded the Tertiary Education Trust Fund for coming up with the NRDF initiative. Adamu, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, Sonny Echono, said the committee would undertake one of the most important and meaningful assignments on behalf of the ministry and the country as a whole. “The task of preparing a draft Executive Bill is not an ordinary job. It requires the best to do it and that is why some of our best and tested lawyers, academics and industry leaders have been called upon to do this assignment,” he said. While calling on members of the committee to live up to expectations in carrying out the assignment, the minister said boosting efforts in research and development holds the key that will redefine the nation’s path to a knowledge economy. “It is expected that your committee will fashion out the legal framework that will define the place of Research and Development as the main parameter for measuring the strength and sustainability of our GDP, which size adds up to nothing without injection of knowledge through problem-solving research,” he added. The minister said the committee, which is chaired by Auwal Yadudu, has four weeks to complete its assignment and produce a report to be considered by the Ministry for “transmission to the Federal Executive Council and expectedly, the National Assembly, that is to approve the Bill for presidential assent”. Earlier, the Executive Secretary of TETFund, Suleiman Bogoro, said the nation’s intellectuals must take up its responsibility by promoting ideas that would fast-track the development of Nigeria, particularly in the area of Research and Development. “While the military is fighting insecurity and while the politicians are addressing the larger issues through the constitutional amendment, we the intellectuals must do the right thing to remind them that we are there, that we can chart a path for this nation. That is why we asked you to join us in this exercise,” he said.