THE Ogun State Government on Monday, urged residents living in about 24 flood-prone communities in 10 local government areas of the state to relocate immediately to safer zones so as to prevent them from impending flood. The government stressed the need for the people to make personal preparation apart from its efforts in order to avert flood disaster that had been predicted to take place in the state between July and September 2021. The Special Adviser to Governor Dapo Abiodun on Environment, Ola Oresanya, gave this advice during a press briefing held in Abeokuta on Tuesday. Oresanya explained that the Nigerian Hydrological Service Agency in its metrological report predicted that the state would experience serious flooding this year. He noted that the temporary relocation would forestall loss of lives and damage to properties that could result from the impending flooding. According to Oresanya ,the flood prone areas mentioned included Gbangba, Ijaye, Ijeun-Tuntun, Isale-Oja Kuto, Amolaso, Ijeja in Abeokuta South LG area of the state. He added that in Abeokuta-North Local Government Area, residents of Adedotun, Ago-Ika, Enugada, Totoro, Onikoko should relocate. Residents of Adigbe, Ofada, Magboro in Obafemi Owode LG and people living around Owa River Course and Yemule River Course in Ijebu–Ode LGA were also advised to relocate temporarily. Other affected areas according to him, are Isheri, Wawa, Arepo, Akute, Alagbole in Ifo LGA and Obantoko, Arakanga river in Odeda LGA. Also affected are residents living around the tributaries such as  Ewekoro, Ado-Odo/Ota, Sagamu, Ijebu-East, and Ogun Waterside, who were also asked to vacate their homes for the raining season. He added, “This is targetted towards intimating members of the public on the weather outlook in the coming months as regards the rainy season that is upon us and its implication for the environment. “As we approach the climax of rainy season this year, the Nigerian Hydrological Service Agency metrological report predicted that Ogun State would experience flooding this year. “Knowing the devastating impact of the previous flood disaster in the state, residents of the state are advised to prepare for flash flood during the month of July, especially between 8th and 15th July, 2021. “ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com