The management of Chrisland Schools has reiterated its commitment to promoting Nigerian languages and cultures among its pupils. The Principal of the schools, Mr Eric Van Der Merwe, stated this during the 2021 Language, Arts and Culture Day organised by the schools in Lagos. Van Der Merwe explained that the event, with the theme, ‘One root, many branches,’ was part of efforts to celebrate the country’s rich cultural diversity. The occasion featured pupils aged between seven and 11 dressed in indigenous attires representing the six geo-political zones of the country. The principal explained that the event would help students develop an appreciation of arts and language as well as different cultures. “Nigeria has one of the best cultures in the world and this is what has kept me back in the country for the past 11 years. As a school, we have discovered that a lot of students are not in touch with their background and culture, hence the reason for this occasion. “This is an event the school has successfully done each year as a way of keeping students in touch with their roots,” Van Der Merwe was quoted as saying in a statement titled, ‘Chrisland Schools celebrate language, arts and culture day,’ on Saturday The statement also quoted the special guest on the occasion, Olufunke Hassan, from the Onigbongbo Local Council Development Authority as saying, “We must highlight and promote our culture, not just as a matter of individual preferences or styles but collectively as our national identity. I applaud the organisers, Chrisland Schools, for serving as custodians of our rich cultural legacy, which is one of our resources.” The occasion featured pupils aged between seven and 11 dressed in indigenous attires representing the six geo-political zones of the country. The principal explained that the event would also help students develop an appreciation for arts and language as well as different cultures. “Nigeria has one of the best cultures in the world and this is what has kept me back in Nigeria for the past 11 years. As a school, we have discovered that a lot of students are not in touch with their background and culture, hence the reason for this occasion. “This is an event the school has successfully done each year as a way of keeping students in touch with their roots,” Van Der Merwe was quoted as saying in a statement titled, ‘Chrisland Schools celebrate language, arts and culture day,’ on Saturday The statement also quoted the special guest on the occasion, Olufunke Hassan, from the Onigbongbo Local Council Development Authority as saying, “We must highlight and promote our culture, not just as a matter of individual preferences or styles but collectively as our national identity. I applaud the organisers, Chrisland Schools, for serving as custodians of our rich cultural legacy, which is one of our resources.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com