THE Peoples Democratic Party is weighing its options following the nullification of its Anambra State delegate congress by a Federal Capital High Court, Abuja, on Thursday. It was gathered that the party leadership has scheduled an emergency meeting to deliberate on what step to take next. Earlier, an FCT High Court, nullified the party’s delegate congress. Delivering ruling on the matter, Justice Olukayode Adeniyi declared that all the acts of the party’s Executive Council after the court’s June 9 judgment on the matter in question were void. The court had sacked the state PDP Executive Committee after it found merit in a case questioning their legitimacy filed by aggrieved party members. Adeniyi held that the PDP went ahead to conduct the delegate election on June 10 and 11 in spite of a subsisting court order as such, all actions taken were in the eyes of the law null and void. Two chieftains of the party, Ndubuisi Nwobu and Uchenna Obiora, had prayed the court for an order to stay the judgment of June 9 pending the determination of the appeal. However, the court turned down the application, stating that they have not provided sufficient grounds for the court to do so. Adeniyi said, “The first applicant (PDP), which is the principal party, has maintained in the face of this court that its judgment is null and void for want of jurisdiction. The same party cannot, at the same time, seek equitable reliefs from the same court. “A party that has no regard for the judgment of a court and described it in derogatory terms to the whole world, as shown in Exhibit C, cannot quietly return to the same court to seek equitable relief to stay the same judgment that it defied and defiled. “An assessment of the totality of the circumstances that have been presented before me by the instant applications leads to only one conclusion, which is that the applicants do not have an iota of respect for the authority of this court, they issued a release to embolden their members not to reckon with the judgment of the court and followed it up by taking of definite contemptuous steps in disregard of the court’s judgment. “For them to come back with a motion for stay of execution and injunction pending the determination of their appeal, in my view, is a clear afterthought. “I there say that no court worth its authority will grant any such application, no matter how well presented and argued.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com