THE Cross River State Commissioner for Water Resources, Dr Godwin Ettah, has resigned. His resignation was contained in a letter titled, ‘Letter of Resignation,’ dated June 14, 2021, which he addressed to the state Governor, Ben Ayade. Ettah wrote, “Please accept this letter as a formal notice of resignation from my appointment as Commissioner. “May I use this medium to specially thank you for the rare opportunity you gave me to work with you as Commissioner for Education and Commissioner for Water Resources respectively. “It was indeed a great pleasure working with you, given your high intellectual ability to inspire a rising generation. My prayer for you is that God grants you success in all your future endeavours.” Also in his resignation letter, another aide, Wilfred Inah wrote, “I write to resign my position as Secretary of State Primary School Management Board. “As an ethical politician and a firm member of the Peoples Democratic Party with a clear understanding of the party’s core vision and mission for our dear country and who has enjoyed several privileges under the party, I cannot afford to jump boat to another party which ideologies do not align with and which views are widely considered by Nigerians as not being democratic and innovative enough to move our country to her expected destination. “However, having the opportunity to serve in the Board has helped broaden my experience in governance and will be readily available for more opportunities that can help us build a better Cross River State in the future.” Meanwhile, as these resignation letters were being made public, a press release by the Special Adviser Media and Publicity to the governor, Christian Ita, announced their sacking. The press release read in part, “The state governor, His Excellency Prof Ben Ayade has approved the relieving of the following persons of their appointments: “Dr Goddy Ettah, Commissioner for Water Resources; Ntufam Gabe Odu Orji, Commissioner for Infrastructure and Moses Onoh, Special Adviser, Budget. “His Excellency thanks them for their services to the state and wishes them well in their future endeavors.” Governor Ayade defected to the All Progressives Congress on May 20 and his aides who refused to defect with him were asked to resign or get sacked. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com