The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has said that the Federal Government, with the support of the United Nations, Global Fund and Civil Society Organisations, has enrolled almost 1.5 million Nigerians on life-saving HIV treatment. He said this at a United Nations General Assembly High-Level Meeting on HIV/AIDS to review the progress on the commitment to end the deadly disease by 2030 and provide recommendations to guide and monitor response in countries. Buhari who addressed the meeting in a video message expressed delight that Nigeria has moved from a data-poor to a data-rich country with the results of the largest AIDS Indicator and Impact Survey, conducted in 2018. This was contained in a statement on Tuesday by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, titled ‘President Buhari: We must eliminate HIV/AIDS by 2030.’ The statement read in part, “Apprising the meeting of Nigeria’s response to control the disease, the President expressed delight that the country ”has moved from a data-poor to a data-rich country with the results of the largest AIDS Indicator and Impact Survey, conducted in 2018.’ “He added that the result of this survey has enabled Nigeria to set realistic targets and identify those who were not being reached with the necessary services. “This has further enabled Nigeria, through the support of the United States Government, Global Fund, Civil Society and other partners, to enrol almost 1.5 million Nigerians on life-saving HIV treatment. “We have recorded tremendous growth in our treatment programme. Especially over the past two years.” The President, therefore, called for a renewed global action to decisively address the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the African region and eliminate the disease by 2030. He also pledged Nigeria’s full commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals and other international and regional initiatives towards eliminating HIV and AIDs in the world within the set goal, saying, ”We will continue to work with fellow Heads of State and Government across the continent to ensure sustained high-level political engagement in achieving these goals. ”I want to reiterate Nigerian Government’s full support for a clear and ambitious Common African Position and New Political Declaration that can help to reduce the public health threat of HIV/AIDS, strengthen resilience to end the disease, and in addressing current and future health emergencies. ”We further commit to urgently translating all new and agreed Political Declarations into country action as a means of decisively addressing the HIV epidemic in the African region.’’ Buhari assured those in attendance that Nigeria had made good its commitment at the High-Level Meeting Side Event at the 72nd Session of the UNGA in September 2017, to commence placing 50,000 Nigerians living with HIV on treatment annually, using national resources. ”Furthermore, I personally granted an exceptional waiver for the use of competitive international tender facilities to procure antiretroviral medicines at more than 30% cost efficiency, enabling more Nigerians to be placed on life-saving antiretroviral treatment within the same budget.”