The Oyo State Police Command has arrested three suspected armed robbers who allegedly attacked a resident of Ibadan, Ben Ama, at his residence. The hoodlums reportedly robbed Ama of some of his valuables and dispossessed him of his ATM card which they took to a POS kiosk and used it to withdraw   N572,000 from the victim’s account. The victim was said to have been held at gunpoint by one of the gang members while the other went out use the ATM. The Commissioner of Police in Oyo State, Mrs Ngozi Onadeko, said this on Thursday while parading some suspects arrested for various crimes. Recall that some armed robbers who invaded Alaafia Estate at the Ojoo area of Ibadan on Monday were said to have used POS machines to steal victims’ money from their bank accounts. They were said to have gone away with victims ATM card after obtaining their PIN when the POS could no longer work due to network issue. Speaking on the arrested suspects, the CP said, “Discreet investigation by operatives of the command’s Monitoring Unit led to the arrest of Akeem Ishola (49) and Mutahiru Animasaun (37) in connection with the crime. Upon interrogation, one Sherif Salawu (37), a co-worker with the victim, confessed to have masterminded the plot along with his cohorts. Investigation is still in progress.” The CP also said the command arrested two members of Aiye Confraternity who were also armed robbers terrorising students of the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology living at Under-G area of Ogbomoso. The gun-wielding hoodlums, who were armed with guns, reportedly attacked a student of LAUTECH, identified simply as Bode, robbed him of his phone and stole N1m cash from his bank account. The CP identified the suspects as 28-year-old  Oluwanisola  Quadri and  Olapade Oladimeji, 30. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com