Team Nigeria athletes will not wear Puma kits at the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games, a top sports ministry official has informed The PUNCH. On Tuesday, newly reelected Athletics Federation of Nigeria president Ibrahim Gusau announced that the federation had taken delivery of the consignment from Puma International for its athletes and officials ahead of the Tokyo Games, and expressed satisfaction with the timeliness of the delivery. He said, “Having these kits on ground before the Olympic Games is really a morale booster. The Federal Government and the AFN can now focus on other things in their quest to get the best out of the athletes at the Games. “This has been one of our cardinal points when we came on board in 2017 with a promise to reduce the direct financial demands on government. Having Puma on board is massive and we hope to build on this in future.” However, the Puma kits have been a subject of criminal investigation, with Gusau and Sunday Adeleye, ex-AFN Technical Director, alleged to have signed the deal on behalf of the federation without the knowledge and signature of the Secretary General, the body’s Chief Administrative and Chief Accounting Officer, saying it contravened Article 4.4.2 of the National Sports Federations Code of Governance 2017. Last year, factional members of the AFN petitioned the Inspector-General of Police to investigate the deal. The petition, signed by Secretary-General, Adisa Beyioku, accused Gusau of signing the deal without the knowledge and approval of the board of the federation. “The Puma kits are a subject of criminal investigations. The Inspector-General of Police has charged those involved to court for criminal conspiracy and theft and abuse of public office over the AFN Puma kits deal. These Puma kits are the disputed ones,” a top ministry official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said. “These Puma kits worth over a million dollars were kept in a garage for almost two years. Team Nigeria will not use Puma kits. Our relationship with Puma is severed for now until the perpetrators face prosecution.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com