…faults Okowa’s election Former Vice President of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria, Olamide George, has denied congratulating Shehu Gusau after he was reelected as the federation’s president at an election held in Birnin Kebbi on Monday. Another election in Abuja same day also produced another AFN board with the Chairman, Delta State Sports Commission, Tonobok Okowa, voted president. In a statement after Gusau’s victory on Monday, the AFN Media quoted “an elated Olamide George” as saying, “I congratulate my brother and friend Ibrahim Shehu Gusau on his re-election as President of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria and also rejoice with the newly elected board. “I am happy that illegitimacy was not allowed to mar the Kebbi elections. I promise to join hands with the Gusau-led board to continue the development of athletics in Nigeria. I am with you all the way.” However, George, Gusau’s former vice president, who later formed another faction of the athletics body, said he didn’t congratulate Gusau, adding that the Abuja and Kebbi elections had their flaws. “I don’t know when I said congratulations (to Gusau for winning the AFN election in Kebbi), but my take is this: the process that brought Okowa in as AFN president is the ministry election, not AFN election and I will keep using the two words ‘ministry’s election’ because the procedures were wrong and unconstitutional. “No one can intimidate me; no one can fault me because the process is faulty, if you look at the fundamentals. “Both have their weaknesses, the fact remains. But ultimately, the one with the highest weakness is the ministry election. You must consider the timeline, the timeframe and the fundamentals.” George accused the sports ministry of dividing the AFN, advising that both groups be brought to the negotiations table to resolve their conflicts. “For me, I’ll advise the Federal Government to call both stakeholders together and face the reality or else, the ministry has divided the federation,” George added. George, who had been in a running battle with Gusau over the control of the AFN, pulled out of the AFN election after he accused the AFN Secretary-General, Adisa Beyioku, of releasing guidelines that were against the federation’s constitution. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com