Dennis Naku, Port Harcourt The Chief of Staff, Rivers State Government House, Emeka Woke, and a former commissioner for agriculture in the state, Emma Chinda, are on a collision course over inauguration of projects by their principals.
Chinda, an ally to the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, and chieftain of the All Progressives Congress, while addressing journalists in Port Harcourt said Governor Nyesom Wike was using taxpayers’ money to inaugurates projects as well as spending huge amounts on live television coverage.
But Woke, who is also a two-time chairman of the Emuoha Local Government Area wondered if Chinda saw anything wrong when Amaechi was inaugurating railway stations across the country on live television.
Chinda had said the protest by students of the Rivers State College of Health Technology and Management Technology over lack of basic amenities and infrastructure on their campuses showed that the governor was not paying attention to education.
He said, “I think that he should take some of the money that he is using to hire television stations and put it in education so that people will be happier for it. If Amaechi had done ground breaking for all the primary schools that he built in Rivers State, what it means is that we would have used one year to do ground breaking for primary schools alone.
“If we hired television stations every now and then at very serious costs like this to do inauguration of all the projects Amaechi did, it meant that even five years would not be enough to do ground breaking and commissioning of Amaechi’s projects. So, I think that time has come when we need to advise the governor that he now has to sincerely concentrate on the administration of the state.”
But Woke described Chinda’s comments as hypocritical, saying he was merely seeking relevance after losing grip in his party.
He said, “Anybody who is working with Amaechi and wants relevance, all he will do is to attack the governor (Wike). Once you attack Wike in the media, then you will be regarded in your group. I hear they are struggling for vacancies in the NDDC. So, I am not surprised that that kind of reaction came.
“If Amaechi flags off life gauge with live coverage, it’s not a waste of state funds. If he inaugurates standard gauge on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway with live coverage, it’s not a waste of state funds. If they inaugurates NDDC headquarters, even when the President will be on virtual and it’s live on all the media, it’s not a waste of resources.
“But if Wike does it in Rivers State, it’s a waste of resources. Initially, they said he (Wike) has done nothing. Today, they are acknowledging that even 500 kilometres of road is being inaugurated.”