The Kano State Governor, Dr Abdullahi Ganduje, on Wednesday stressed that he would reject calls for the division of the country, saying, “When we are united, we will not only remain stronger but a lot  more recognized by the global community”. Also, Ganduje affirmed the state government’s support for the ongoing review of the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended). Ganduje made the declaration officially opening the public hearing on the Constitution Review Committee in Kano for Kano, Kaduna, Jigawa and Katsina states. He urged Nigerians, while making their contributions, to prioritise the love, unity and interest of the country above any other consideration. However, the Christian Association of Nigeria emphasised the need to ensure equity for all, recognition of traditional and religious leaders in the proposed amendment of Nigeria’s 1999 Constitution. The CAN Chairman, Kogi chapter, Bishop John Ibenu, stated this on Wednesday at the two-day North-Central zonal public hearing on the ongoing constitution amendments in Lokoja. ‘FG can’t declare war on South-East without N’Assembly’ Also, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Femi Falana, faulted the recent declaration made by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari, threatening to deal with insurrectionists in the South-Eastern part of the country. Falana expressed this on Wednesday during the South-West zonal public hearing on the Constitution Review organised by the House of Representatives at Marriott Hotel, Ikeja. He said, “Under the constitution, section 305, the President cannot declare a war on any part of Nigeria without the approval of the National Assembly. A state of emergency must be declared. None has been declared in the South-East. Therefore, the ongoing killings in the South-East cannot be justified under the constitution.” “We want to appeal to members of the National Assembly to urgently pass a resolution requesting the President to stop the ongoing war in the South-East of Nigeria. “We therefore appeal to the so-called gunmen and the Nigerian armed forces to stop killings on both sides and allow the governors to address the challenges of misgovernance, injustice, lopsided appointments and nepotistic control of the country,” he added. Speaking, Rasaq Olukunoba, the convener of the Foundation for Yoruba Self-determination Group, said, “Nigeria remains the only country where our President would read 42 security reports every day. He is going to appoint the ministers, the Inspector of General of Police. So, power has must be devolved. “170 million Nigerians cannot be catered for by the Federal Government if he still wields that power. The reason we have so many unemployed youths is because there is no job. And President Buhari cannot provide job for all Nigerian youths.” Plateau kicks as lawmakers boycott constitution review In Jos, the Plateua State capital, members of the Plateau State House of Assembly stayed away from the North-Central zonal public hearing on the review of the 1999 Constitution. The PUNCH observed that none of the 24-member Assembly, including the Speaker, Abok Ayuba, was present during the two-day public hearing, which held between Tuesday and Wednesday in Jos. But one of the lawmakers told The PUNCH in Jos on Wednesday that they decided to boycott the exercise in protest of the alleged refusal of Governor Simon Lalong to grant autonomy to the state legislature The lawmaker said, “He has refused to grant us autonomy; instead, the template he wants to use is against the interest of the state House of Assembly because the template allows him to make all manner of deductions before payment is made to us. To us, that is not autonomy.” Reacting, the state Commissioner for Information, Dan Manjan, said, “The state House of Assembly has an unfettered access to the governor and for anybody to have said that; the person is not being fair to the governor.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com