A former Medical Director of St. Raphael Divine Mercy Specialist Hospital, Ikorodu, Lagos, Dr Cecilia Omeife, has solicited support for the country’s health sector, saying the government alone cannot provide quality health care for the people. Omeife said this at the hospital’s 10th anniversary and unveiling of an ultra-modern Intensive Care Unit as well as an orthopaedic theatre. She said, “I must appreciate the effort of the current management team of the hospital in not only maintaining the standard we put in place from the onset but have made great strides to improve upon it. We all know, government alone cannot provide the needed health care for the people. It is my hope and prayer that the hospital attains its founding purpose. The emeritus Archbishop of the Catholic Archdiocese of Lagos, Cardinal Anthony Okogie, said the hospital was founded when there was only one primary health centre in Ikorodu. He said the gesture was to provide accessible and affordable healthcare to the people of the area. Profit-making was never part of our intentions for establishing the hospital, our priority is to care for the poor. Back then, people were dying for lack of basic health care in that part of Lagos. Imagine sick and frail human beings travelling from lkorodu without serviceable road to the heart of Lagos for medical services. Some may get worse or even die before they get to any hospital,” Okogie said. Archbishop of Lagos, Most Rev. Alfred Adewale Martins, said the hospital considered itself a partner with the state government in providing quality health care to the people. He said, “Going forward, we are working to ensure the provision of state of art treatment for cancer patients so that they won’t need to travel abroad. We are already in touch with medical experts from India to collaborate and learn from them. “We are also working towards establishing a college of medicine for us to be able to impact knowledge and hope that this hospital will be ready to provide teaching hospital service.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com