The Lagos State Government has vowed to prosecute a trader, Rashidat Adeleke, for allegedly pouring hot water on the face of her salesgirl, Bukola Akinola. It was gathered that the 50-year-old trader, who owns a supermarket at No. 35 Ayodele Ogunkoya Street, Governor’s Road in the Ikotun area of the state, allegedly scalded the victim due to the destruction of some goods in her shop. PUNCH Metro learnt that the 29-year-old victim was employed by the suspect in 2019 as a salesgirl, but later started living with her boss, who allegedly used to assault her occasionally. A statement by the Directorate of Citizens Rights said Adeleke, in the latest incident, allegedly poured hot water on the victim’s face over the destruction of some bangles by two other sales girls. The statement read in part, “The Lagos State Government has announced the immediate prosecution of 50-year-old Mrs Rashidat Adeleke for allegedly assaulting her 29-year-old saleslady by pouring hot water on her face at the Ikotun area of the state. “Alhaja Rashidat Adeleke, who owns the Super King Mark Supreme Store at No. 35 Ayodele Ogunkoya Street, off Governor’s Road, Ikotun area of Lagos, employed the victim as a saleslady in 2019, but she ended up residing with her due to high transportation fare and other stress-related issues for the past 18 months before the ugly incident happened. “The victim narrated that her employer had the habit of abusing her at the slighted provocation. While narrating the ugly incident, the victim said two other sales representatives, aged 10 and 14, fought at the store, which resulted in the damage of some items. “When they got home that evening, Alhaja Adeleke asked the victim how the bangles on sale were damaged by the younger salegirls and she responded that she had no idea of what happened. Alhaja Adeleke then angrily dragged her into the kitchen, locked her inside and asked the younger sales representatives if there was hot water and they responded that it was not available. “Rashidat Adeleke reportedly boiled water and poured it on the head of the victim. The victim tried to escape, but was prevented from doing so by her boss. She reportedly boiled water the second time, poured it on her and the victim then collapsed. Despite being badly scalded, Alhaja Adeleke went ahead to flog the victim repeatedly.” The Director, Citizens Rights, Oluwatoyin Odusanya, stated that the suspect had been arrested and transferred to the Gender Anti-Human Trafficking Unit of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, Panti, for prosecution. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com