Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed, has appointed Barrister Ibrahim Kashim as Secretary to the State Government. This is coming barely one week after he sacked his cabinet. The PUNCH had reported last Wednesday that Mohammed dissolved his cabinet including 21 Commissioners, the Secretary to the State Government, Sabi’u Baba; his Chief of Staff, Dr. Ladan Salihu, and his Special Advisers. He, however, retained his Special Advisers on Security, National and State Assembly Liaison, Social Investment, and Media and Publicity. The governor, yesterday (Monday), appointed Dr. Aminu Gamawa, as the new Chief of Staff, Government House. The appointment of the new SSG was contained in a media statement signed and made available to journalists in Bauchi on Tuesday by the Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to the governor, Mukhtar Gidado. The appointment takes immediate effect. He said that Kashim who hails from Bauchi Local Government Area attended many institutions in the United Kingdom and the United States of America. Gidado added that the appointee is a former lecturer at Usman Dan Fodio University, Sokoto, and retired from active service as a Director in the Presidency in the Bureau for Public Enterprises. He said, “Barrister Ibrahim Muhammad Kashim holds a LL. B, BL, LLM and Masters in Business Administration and various Post Graduate Certificates in Management, Administration and Economic Reform and Divestiture from many Institutions in the United Kingdom and the United States. “He hails from Bauchi Local Government Area of the state. He is a Legal Practitioner, a former Lecturer at Dan Fodio University Sokoto, a public servant, and a policy expert. “He retired in 2015 as a Director in the Presidency (Bureau for Public Enterprises) where he headed various departments and acted as the Director-General.” The Media Aide said that upon retirement, Barrister Kashim ran a Consultancy Outfit known as Kauthar Resources Nig. Ltd and had consulted for various transport sector committees of both houses of the National Assembly, House Committee on Commercialisation and Privatisation and the Nigerian Shippers’ Council. According to him, he is a registered member of the Nigeria Economic Summit Group, a non-profit, non–partisan private sector-led think tank with a mandate to promote and champion the reform of the Nigerian economy into an open, globally competitive economy. “In 2020, Barrister Kashim was appointed as the Pioneer Director-General, Bauchi State Bureau for Privatisation and Economic Reforms, an agency set up pursuant to the current Government of Bala Mohammed’s resolve to reform, restructure and grow the economy of the state. “Until his appointment, he was the immediate past Director-General, Bureau for Privatisation and Economic Reforms,” he stated.