THE House of Representatives has declared illegal the current appointment of a sole administrator for the Niger Delta Development Commission, asking the Federal Government to properly constitute a board for the zonal body. The House also alleged that some member states had been marginalised in the leadership and management of the NDDC since inception, demanding that the critical leadership positions should be zoned to the affected states. At the plenary on Thursday, a member of the House from Ondo State, Kolade Akinjo, had moved a motion titled ‘Need to comply with the Niger Delta Development Commission Act, 2000 in the composition of the Governing Board.’ As the lawmakers unanimously adopted the motion, they resolved to “urge the Federal Government to adhere to the provisions of the NDDC Act 2000 by constituting the governing board” and to the adhere to the provisions of Section 4 of the NDDC Act 2000 “by considering Delta State, which is next in alphabetical order for the position of the chairmanship of the board.” Akinjo partly said, “The House notes that great injustice has characterised the composition of the board of the NDDC as regards the offices of the chairman, managing director and the two executive directors.” He recalled that the Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation and Fiscal Commission Report recently ranked Akwa Ibom first, Delta, second; Rivers, third; Bayelsa, fourth; Ondo, fifth; Edo, sixth; Imo, seventh; Abia, eighth; and Cross River, ninth, in order of quantum. The lawmakers also listed details of the key offices and their occupants since 2001, showing how some states were excluded. He said, “The House observes that despite Sections 4 and 12 of the NDDC Act, the positions of the board chairman, managing director and the two executive directors are solely occupied by Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa, Delta, Rivers and Cross River, leaving out Ondo, Imo and Edo states respectively.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com