The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has applauded the “collective efforts” of troops and other security agencies in the country’s terrorist-troubled North-East region. Speaking with the troops on Thursday during his visit to Maiduguri, the Borno State capital, Buhari said the efforts of the gallant men and women have resulted in the “relative peace” enjoyed by the people of Yobe, Borno, Adamawa, Taraba and other North-Eastern states. This is despite the killings and kidnappings by Boko Haram and Islamic State West Africa Province fighters in the region. Buhari, however, in his address to the troops, saluted the courageous soldiers who have paid the supreme price in the last 10 years since the insurgency in the region started. He said, “Furthermore, we will continue to ensure that our wounded comrades get the best medical attention towards their full recovery. “While acknowledging your collective efforts at decimating and degrading the terrorists and reaffirming the inviolable sovereignty of our nation, I also wish to extol your steadfastness and untiring efforts in the face of the difficulties you experience in the Theatres of Operation. “Your collective efforts have resulted in the relative peace being enjoyed in the region today. Under my watch, the Armed Forces of Nigeria have been provided a firm strategy and clear sense of direction to safeguard the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country. “We should not allow our adversaries the opportunity or breathing space to challenge or undermine our national interests and core values. The defence and security agencies should rest assured of the Federal Government’s unalloyed commitment to winning the battle against terror and criminality.” Continuing, Buhari said, “Side by side with the efforts of the Armed Forces and security agencies, this Administration is developing a strategy for post-war reconstruction and peace-building. Concerted efforts are being made to fast-track re-construction and development programmes in the affected communities in the North East. “I am hopeful that this will lead to the speedy resettlement of displaced persons, as well as the restoration of bubbling community life as the people return to their homes.” “As your Commander-in-Chief, I want to assure you that this government will continue to work towards the provision of timely funding and procurement of equipment for the Armed Forces and other security agencies. This is intended to boost the prosecution of the ongoing war to a logical conclusion and also to serve our collective interests and well-being. “While I commend your resilience, let me remind you that there is still a lot of work to be done, to completely restore peace to the North East, stem the activities of armed bandits in the North West and North Central, as well as deal with other security challenges across the country. “You must therefore remain steadfast and see this war to a conclusive end. In doing so, you must rely on interagency cooperation, strengthen your cohesion with the troops of neighboring Republics of Cameroon, Chad and Niger in our collective fight against the terrorists, under the auspices of the Multinational Joint Task Force. This will consolidate our efforts and facilitate the speedy return of peace and stability to the region,” he added.