Human rights lawyer, Mike Ozekhome, SAN, says the Federal Government is trying to cover its atrocities from the international community by its decision to suspend the operations of microblogging site Twitter in the country. He made this known in a statement on Friday titled, ‘When A Tottering Government Twiddles Twitter’. The PUNCH had earlier reported that Twitter deleted a post by the Nigerian President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Tuesday. Consequently, Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, announced the suspension of Twitter today, citing the “persistent use of the platform for activities that are capable of undermining Nigeria’s corporate existence”. However, checks by our correspondent showed that Twitter is still up in Nigeria as of the time of filing this report as users still have access to the platform. The minister’s statement was also silent on the time that the ban would be enforced. Reacting in a statement, Ozekhome said, “Well, I am not surprised that the Federal Government has suspended Twitter operations in Nigeria. Are you? I have always said that this Government has a very thin skin for criticism. It is a government that cannot take punches, but delights in always giving punches to adversaries, real or imaginary. “What does Nigerian government think Twitter loses by being suspended? It is just the Nigerian people that will suffer, in the same way the Government has been punishing Nigerians in the last six years. Twitter will not even bother whether Nigerians use Twitter or not. “So, it is the same beleaguered Nigerian people that will suffer, not the Federal Government or Twitter, because the Federal Government is a minute minuscule aspect of the Nigerian society, made up of only a few selected elite that do not care about the common man.” Continuing, the senior advocate said, “The Government knows that Nigerians now express their resentment and protest through Twitter, by telling the whole world how Nigeria has been turned into a corruption haven, and a sprawling field of butchery, extra-judicial executions and slaughtering. “Those in Government do not want the world to hear about their atrocities. So, they just gleefully tell the world that they have suspended Twitter and that they would soon license other OTT and social media operations. “These people in Government know that Nigerians have been reaching out to the whole world, and they are very embarrassed that the breeze has been blowing, and the smelly backside of the fowl is always being opened for the whole world to see and smell its odorous side. “This is the same Government that undeservedly rode to power using the same Twitter and other social media platforms it now detests. “I am greatly disappointed about this government round and round. I feel very sad as a Nigerian being led by a Government of one scandal per day.”