The Managing Director of Cydene Energy, Skalid Obi, tells NOAH BANJO about his experience managing the company What inspired Cydene Energy? The vision to establish the company was conceived during the delivery of a cylinder of gas to my house. I figured it would be almost impossible for one company to efficiently distribute liquefied petroleum gas across the market. More players were required to build an efficient network of distribution. We were desirous of putting customers in control of their energy needs such that at their fingertips, they could access all the energy opportunities around them at very competitive rates. I felt consumers should be able to plan and budget very easily and wisely for their energy consumption with our very flexible offerings and services. Imagine having dedicated customer representatives just one click away, like it obtains in the banking and telecommunication industry. We decided to fill such gaps for domestic and large scale energy needs. What is the thrust of the company and its subsidiary Cydene Express? At the former, we manage the distribution of petroleum products into key African markets with a strong focus on retail. We import and distribute petroleum commodities to retail outlets nationwide. On the other hand, CEX is one of our retail offerings to the end user in an aggressive initiative to solve the distribution issues within Nigeria. We manage a mobile algorithm that handles a network of trucks that offer cooking gas and diesel delivery services. What problems does CEX solve and what impact would that have on the economy? In short terms, we would boost the distribution of LPG. That would also engender a reduced cost of entry for skid operators, because the customer market has become structured, centralised and easily accessible via a mobile device. We have partnered with a couple of merchants to boost third party products and services, such as locally manufactured cylinders and electrical bill payments. The ease of setting up a business is the focus here. Technically, the basic knowhow of operating a mobile device is our biggest ‘enemy’. That is usually the lengthy part of the conversation. After that is sorted, everything else is accessible with a single click. We have also partnered with banks and our payment processors in making sure transactions are safe and secured. What are your expansion plans for the future? At the moment, we are very much focused on local distribution. We admit that there is a very interesting market within the sub-Saharan region but we would like to build up internally and then move as demand pulls. We also have some partnership propositions with third party vendors. The idea is for our customers to maintain one account for all their energy needs. That is what guides our decisions for user add-on services. Given the capital intensive nature of the energy sector, what was your initial startup capital and how did you raise the money? This is a very interesting story. At the time, it made no sense driving a sport utility vehicle with no business capital. I had no one ready to give me products on credit. I then sold my SUV and bought a smaller car. I went on to use the money for my first 33,000-litre delivery. How would you describe your experience since you started managing the business? At the very onset, all we had was enough capital to fill a 33,000-litre petrol truck. We started delivering at that pace— two trips a week, and payment on delivery. Because we honoured all our delivery contracts in a timely manner, the brand began to gain steam and we started getting more orders. Ultimately, suppliers began offering us credit loadings, banking on our turnover period. It has been slow and steady since then. Right now, a bulk of our customers even pay before delivery. What strategy did you adopt to survive the pandemic? We have adopted a leaner structure in terms of operations, from reducing overhead costs to ensuring employees’ comfort while working from home. However, we have realised through the pandemic that the work environment does not always require a fire brigade approach, but a subtle and more effective way of creating lasting solutions and a more efficient environment. As an organisation we are very particular about our workforce and their wellbeing. What advice do you have for prospective entrepreneurs? Sometime ago, during a meeting, Prof Anya Anya (renowned professor of biology) said to me and some of my colleagues. “If your vision is not a shared vision, it is a failed vision”. Meanwhile, that is one aspect I have struggled with in the past— making the vision a shared one. It is easier to overcome obstacles when a team moves with the same goal in mind. I usually encourage business ‘visioneers’ to endeavour to have a buy-in. They should first be self-convinced about their dreams and share those visions with people who can serve as a support base. That way, they can sustain the vision. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com