Courts in the country resumed sitting after months of strike embarked upon by the Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria. Recall that JUSUN members had embarked on strike on April 6 to press home their demand for financial autonomy of the judiciary. In Enugu State on Tuesday, one of our correspondents, who visited the Enugu State Judiciary headquarters complex at Independence Layout, observed an unusual crowd at the registries and at the affidavit office, where people in long queues were seen waiting to get one documents or another. Most judges were seen in the court premises as their chambers and courtrooms were being cleaned. They were later seen issuing hearing notices for new dates on matters before them. A lawyer, Raphael Igwe, lamenting the 10-week, adding, “Litigants were the worst hit because you know justice delayed is justice denied. Some accused in various correctional centres could have regained their freedom if not for this strike. Some others with ongoing trial would have concluded their matters.” ‘We converted our vehicles to cabs’ Some young lawyers, who concentrated on litigation, said the strike dealt a heavy blow on them. Some of the lawyers, who spoke our correspondent in confidence, said they converted their vehicles to cabs, while others said they took up menial jobs to fend for themselves. One of them said, “I had to get involved in farming and it was not very easy, but I was able to sustain myself with the farm.” Another said, “I and some of my colleagues converted our vehicles to cabs. Other lawyers that I know took up menial jobs to sustain themselves and families. We are happy that the courts have resumed.” The National Vice President, South-East, and chairman of Enugu State JUSUN, Chinedu Mba, said, “When two elephants are fighting, it is the grass that suffers. If you go to the police stations and correctional centres, you see the results of the strike. The cells and prisons have been congested with suspects. But I can tell you that our workers are ready to work.” Abuja courts reopen Similarly, courts in the Federal Capital Territory came alive on Tuesday as they were reopened for judicial officers, lawyers, litigants and others. Our correspondent, who visited some of the courts in the FCT noted that the courts were gradually warming up as people trooped in and out of the court premises. At the Federal High Court, Abuja, The PUNCH learnt that the former Judge, Justice Folashade Giwa-Ogunbanjo of Court 8, was transferred and the new judge, Justice Zainab Abubakar, was just resuming. The PUNCH also visited the High Court of the FCT, and activities were also ongoing as the judiciary workers, lawyers, and other users of the court were on the ground. A lawyer, Justin Chuwang, said he came to take dates for his cases as the court has just resumed. Another legal practitioner, Botu Samuel, expressed excitement that the court has finally resumed and stated that he just finished the matter he came for in court. Likewise, courts in Osun State reopened on Tuesday. During a visit to the premises of the Osun State High Court, Osogbo, many staff members were seen at their duty posts, but court sittings did not hold. Osun JUSUN Chairman, Gbenga Eludire, in a chat with The PUNCH, said activities in courts would resume fully before the end of the week. He however said the strike was only suspended for three months, adding, “It (strike) may return, unless our demands are met.” Lagos lawyers lament strike Also, lawyers in Lagos  state on Tuesday lamented the impact of the strike. Our correspondents who visited the Lagos State High Court, Federal High Court, and the Court of Appeal observed that activities have resumed , but some courts were yet to sit. A lawyer, Mr Olawale Busari, who had cases due for hearing at the Federal High Court, Ikoyi, said some were given new hearing dates. He said, “Also, opposing counsel and witnesses had to be put on notice. It’s like starting all over again.” However, our correspondent gathered that the Federal High court registry was very busy as almost everyone was in a hurry to file their processes. Another lawyer, David Akpeji, who was at the Lagos State Court of Appeal, said, “I had some processes to file, but everywhere was crowded.” A law associate, Joel Ighalo, said, “We are coming from a situation where courts were burnt last year with some judges losing their court and case files. As we were trying to recover from everything that happened, the JUSUN strike came. “The impact it has had on some firms is that many lawyers have been laid off. Some law firms depend on court appearances to get paid. When the strike came, a lot of lawyers were sent home. The impact has been very bad. I’m glad we can pick up from where we left off now.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com