Paxful, a cryptocurrency trading platform, says it has launched an e-commerce solution that will allow businesses worldwide to receive bitcoin. It said the service would allow customers to pay with almost 400 payment methods. In a statement, the CEO and co-founder of Paxful, Ray Youssef, said, “In many regions across the globe, we see people use bitcoin as a financial tool for purchasing goods and services. Bitcoin has several different use cases that we have only begun to leverage, and e-commerce is a great example. “At Paxful, it’s imperative that we give users and businesses around the world the opportunity to take advantage of the power of bitcoin to gain financial freedom.” According to the statement, with Paxful Pay, businesses will be able to manage their earnings and convert bitcoin into local currency on the Paxful Marketplace using almost 400 payment methods, and sellers will have control over the configuration of the solution on their Paxful Merchant Dashboard and can track every transaction. The Chief Operating Officer and co-founder of Paxful, Artur Schaback, said, “We’re thrilled to bring Paxful Pay to our global community. There is a clear need to offer local options for bitcoin and this product is a culmination of our efforts to deliver on that demand. “By offering users the ability to complete purchases using almost 400 payment methods, they will now have an even stronger financial solution at their fingertips. We cannot wait to expand this offering to encompass as many merchants as possible.” According to the statement, the company expects to expand to other digital currencies and plans to introduce automatic conversion into stablecoins such as Tether. “As the service expands, Paxful Pay will allow merchants to automatically convert bitcoin into their local currency within their bank account. At present, Paxful has over 100 merchants on Paxful Pay.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com