THE President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has vowed to visit on insurgents and bandits the ferocity of the nation’s firepower to allow for peace and security. Buhari made this vow while addressing men and officers of the Armed Forces in Maiduguri, the Borno State capital, during a visit to assess the security situation of the country and to inaugurate some projects. The President said, “By pooling together the collective resources and comparative advantages of the Armed Forces and other security agencies, we hope the enemy will now feel the ferocity of our firepower and the weight of our resolve.” Buhari, who used the occasion to condole with the families of the nation’s fallen heroes and pray for the souls of the departed, said, “I want to assure you that this administration will spare no effort or resources to ensure that the widows and children of our fallen heroes who paid the supreme price in defence of our beloved country, are well cared for.” He however charged the men of the Armed Forces to continue the great work of defending the nation, saying, “We should not allow our adversaries the opportunity or breathing space to challenge or undermine our national interests and core values. “The defence and security agencies should rest assured of the Federal Government’s unalloyed commitment to winning the battle against terror and criminality. He said, “Concerted efforts are being made to fast-track re-construction and development programmes in the affected communities in the North-East.” Buhari said he would continue to ensure that our wounded comrades got the best medical attention towards their full recovery. He told the soldiers that their collective efforts at decimating and degrading the terrorists and reaffirming the inviolable sovereignty of our nation was acknowledged, stressing that their steadfastness and untiring efforts in the face of the difficulties they experience in the theatre of operation was to his knowledge. “Your collective efforts have resulted in the relative peace being enjoyed in the region today. Under my watch, the Armed Forces of Nigeria have been provided a firm strategy and clear sense of direction to safeguard the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country.” The outcome of this synergy is evidenced by the successes recorded in the ongoing Operation Tura Takaibango which has so far degraded the insurgents’ capabilities in the Timbuktu Triangle, Sambisa Forest and the Lake Chad Region. He revealed that the repairs and maintenance of some of these vital weapons were being carried out in the country thereby saving the nation a lot of foreign exchange and also creating jobs for our teeming population. In his address, the Commander, Operations Hadin Kai, Major General Felix Omoigui, assured troops of the President’s commitment to their welfare, especially in bringing the war against insurgency to a decisive end. Meanwhile, Buhari, during the visit inaugurated the senate building, staff quarters and students’ hostel of the Borno State University. Buhari also inaugurated 1,200 housing units at Njimtilo, which was part of the 4,000 completed houses constructed by the Federal Government for displaced persons in Borno. The General Hospital Abbaganaram, a fifty-bed capacity equipped with modern facilities, was among the projects also launched by the President. While paying homage to the Shehu of Borno, Alhaji Abubakar Umar, Garbai Al-amin El-Kanemi at his palace in Maiduguri, the President stated that his administration was poised to returning Borno to her old glory and would continue to provide support to the state government to restore the people to their normal lives. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com