Suspected bandits went on the rampage during the week, attacking at least three hallowed institutions in the country: the Kogi State House of Assembly Complex; Olusegun Agagu University of Science and Technology, Okitipupa, Ondo State; and the Nigerian Air Force in Zamfara State. In Zamfara State, bandits on Thursday attacked a patrol team of Operation Hadarin Daji, comprising operatives of the Nigerian Air Force and Police Special Forces, in the Bundugu area of the state. An encounter between the troops and the bandits left two security operatives, a police inspector and a NAF operative identified as James Okpu, dead. Seven bandits were also reportedly killed during the gun duel. Sunday PUNCH learnt that the incident occurred at a time the no-fly zone directive ordered by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), to curtail the activities of bandits in the state was still in force. Okpu’s family and friends have since taken to social media to mourn him. His brother, Maro Okpu, who posted the pictures of the deceased, wrote, “Why now, brother? You never planned to ‘let go’ in such a hard way. (You are) always in our heart, kid brother. Rest on.” Another family member simply identified as Paul also wrote on Facebook, “Gone too soon, my own James Azabanabhelam Egbogba Okpu.” Meanwhile, one of Okpu’s relatives, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said a military officer close to the family first broke the news to him. The relative claimed that the commander of the deceased’s unit later called to commiserate with the bereaved family. The source said, “On Thursday, I got a call from someone who claimed to be the deceased’s commander. He asked after my well-being and asked if I heard what happened to my brother. I told him I heard. He then said, ‘Take heart. I am sorry. May his soul rest in peace.’ I hit my phone against the floor and began to weep. “The deceased was a young man. He had been the pillar of our family ever since we lost our parents. He joined the Air Force to fend for the family. One of my brothers met me crying. He picked up the phone and called the commander. “He didn’t tell me much about what they discussed. All he just said was that we should go to Abuja. I called the commander’s number on Friday with the elders of the family being present to get information on how he died. The commander said I should call back, but since then we have not been able to talk.” When contacted, the Director of Public Relations and Information, NAF, Air Commodore Edward Gabkwet, confirmed that a patrol team of Operation Hadarin Daji was attacked by bandits at Bundugu in Zamfara State. Gabkwet said the troops killed seven bandits but lost two personnel, including a NAF operative. He said, “There was no attack on the NAF base in Zamfara State. Instead, a patrol team of Operation Hadarin Daji, comprising members of the armed forces and Police Special Forces, came under attack by bandits at Bundugu. “As usual, our troops waded off the attack and killed seven bandits. Sadly, we lost one of our gallant airmen and a police inspector.” Meanwhile, Gabkwet debunked reports that armed men attacked the Air Force base in Kaduna on Saturday. He said this in a statement titled, ‘No attempted attack on NAF Base in Kaduna.’ The statement read, “Merchants of fake news are at it again. This time round, their focus is on the premier Nigerian Air Force Base in Kaduna, which they claimed came under terrorist attack in the early hours of June 26, 2021. “Members of the public should please disregard the news as it is entirely false. There was nothing of such as the inhabitants of the entire base are going about their normal business without any threat whatsoever.” Referencing Saturday’s attacks, the Nigerian Army said troops of Division 8 neutralised several suspected bandits in Talata Maraf Local Government Area of Zamfara State. The army said the bandits and troops engaged in a fierce gun battle during their patrol along Mayanchi-Dogo, Karfe, and Fagantama villages in the state. In a statement, the Director of Army Public Relations, Onyema Nwachukwu, said troops also killed five bandits and injured others in a separate operation in Bungudu in Zamfara State. The statement was titled, ‘Nigerian Army troops neutralise scores of bandits in fierce encounter, recover arms and ammunition.’ It read, “In the fierce encounter that ensued, the bandits were overwhelmed by the superior firepower of the troops. “This led to scores of bandits being neutralised. The troops also recovered one PKT rifle, large cache of ammunition, and a motorcycle. “Relatedly, troops have neutralised five bandits in another encounter at Bingi village, in the Bungudu Local Government Area of Zamfara State. During the gun duel, the bandits withdrew in disarray, having sustained severe gunshot wounds. The gallant troops recovered one AK-47 rifle, one motorcycle, and three mobile phones from the routed criminals.” Bandits invade Kogi House of Assembly In a related development, bandits on Friday raided the Kogi State House of Assembly Complex and carted away property worth millions of naira. The Speaker of the Kogi House of Assembly, Mr Matthew Kolawole, who confirmed the incident in an interview with one of our correspondents, said “some armed bandits invaded the Assembly on Friday and made away with armoured cables, TV sets and other office valuables.” Kolawole expressed concern over the development, saying that the bandits’ invasion had exposed the porous security at the complex. “Security men attached to the Assembly Complex should sit  up in the discharge of their duty or would be made to face interrogation over their lapses in the protection of lives and property at the House of Assembly Complex,” the Speaker warned. Kolawole appealed to the security agencies in the state to ensure arrest of those who invaded the Assembly to avert future occurrence. He, however, expressed joy that no life was lost during the attack. Ondo varsity shut as hoodlums, rob, rape students Meanwhile, the management of the Olusegun Agagu University of Science and Technology, Okitipupa, Ondo State has ordered the closure of the institution for two weeks following the spate of insecurity on the campus. The development followed a protest embarked upon by the students last Thursday to register their displeasure over the incessant robberies at their hostels, rape of female students by hoodlums, and threats to their lives and property. A source told one of our correspondents that about four female students were raped by hoodlums in the last two weeks. The President of the school’s Students’ Union Government, Damilola Okunomo, confirmed the raping of some students, saying they were tired of the level of insecurity in the school environment. Apart from the rape of female students at gunpoint, Okunomo also said many students had been dispossessed of their valuables such as phones, laptops, and other gadgets. He said, “We are tired of insecurity. Hoodlums usually come to our off-campus hostels, rob students at gunpoint, and rape our female students. “The school management is not doing enough as we are the ones securing ourselves by working as vigilantes most times. The situation is terrible. “We urge the school management to do its best in securing us and complete all the uncompleted hostel accommodations on the campus.” However, in a reaction, the Dean of Student Affairs, OAUSTECH, Mr Ilemobayo Oguntimehin, stated that the school management was doing its best to secure the lives and property of the students. Similarly, the university’s Public Relations Officer, Mr Abdulazeez Adebayo, said the school had already taken steps to ensure the safety of the students’ lives and property. He said, “It is true that the students staged a peaceful protest, and the school has been shut. The management will be meeting with all the traditional rulers and other stakeholders in the communities over the students’ security. “In few days from now , the school will organise a security summit that will involve all the stakeholders in the area.” Destroy terrorists’ enclaves, COAS charges troops Meanwhile, the Chief of Army Staff, Major General Faruk Yahaya, had charged troops of Sector 2 Joint Task Force North East, Operation Hadin Kai, to destroy all Boko Haram and Islamic State West Africa Province’s enclaves in their various locations. According to a statement by the Director of Army Public Relations, Nwachukwu, the COAS stated this while addressing troops in Yobe State on Saturday. The statement was titled, ‘Destroy all Boko Haram terrorists enclaves in your locations, COAS charges troops in Yobe.’ It read in part, “General Yahaya further commended the troops on the several successful operations conducted within Sector 2 area of responsibility, which he enumerated to include operations Ayiso Tamunoma, Katana Jimlan, Fire Ball, and Tura Takaibango. “He enjoined the troops to use their wealth of experience and lessons learnt from the series of operations to destroy the remnants of marauding terrorists within their various locations. “He assured them of improved welfare and a new reward system for troops who perform gallantly in any operation.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com