The Ogun State Government has expressed its support for the domestic tourism and entertainment sectors by focusing on creating an enabling environment for such partnerships to thrive in the state. Governor Dapo Abiodun, who was represented by the  Commissioner for Tourism, Dr Taiwo Oluwatoyin, said this during the 10th anniversary celebration of Solutions Media and Infotech Limited, held at Hi-Impact Park in Ibafo, along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. He said, “We are proud to have your investment here in Ogun State. Solution Media and Infotech Limited has shown us that we all can aspire to do better than what others are doing all over the world. “This administration is focused on qualitative governance by creating an enabling environment for private foreign partnership which we believe is fundamental to the creation of enduring social and economic development and individual prosperity.” Abiodun equally assured the people that with their support, his administration would fulfill all his electoral promises. “We also want to let you know that we are committed to fulfilling all the promises made during electioneering. You believed in us, that is why you gave us the mandate. We also assure you that we are doing all we can with your support to fulfill our promises,” he added. The Managing Director, SMIL, Mr Adeyeloye Lipede, in his remark, said the company had made great strides outside the shores of Nigeria, in the United Kingdom and the United Arab Emirates, in the last decade. Lipede said, “In the course of our  10 years of existence, we have flown the Nigerian flag both in the UAE and the UK, where great artistes of both Nigerian and African descent performed to the admiration of all in world musical concerts.” “For us, it is not yet an Eldorado; we are not unmindful of the business climate in the country, but we are confident and hopeful that with the right attitude and determination, the future looks bright. So at ten, calling our friends to join us to thank God is a thing we feel we should do.” A former Governor of Ogun State, Gbenga Daniel, also commended the organisation for the success it had attained. Daniel said, “I tried to talk my friend and brother, Lipede, into contesting the governorship of Ogun State, but he declined because he said he had another goal. I was not happy about that. “But today, seeing his success as the managing director of this organisation, even surmounting the challenges of security and location, I am highly pleased.” Other dignitaries present at the event were the Senior Special Adviser on Economic Matters to the Vice President, Mrs Yosola Akinbi; Ogun State Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Mr Afolabi Fuwape; and a former Speaker, Ogun State House of Assembly, Mrs Titi Gomez, among others. SMIL, a hi-tech multimedia organisation was founded on May 31, 2011 to improve the standards in media production in Nigeria. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com