NO fewer than 200 households have been left stranded after being forcefully evicted from Internally Displaced Persons’ camp on Monday in Maiduguri, the Borno State capital, as part of efforts by the state government to close all IDP camps within the state. Some of the affected families were seen roaming their new environment at Auno town in Konduga Local Government Area on Wednesday with their luggage during the official allocation of 580 two-bedroom housing units by the State Governor, Prof. Babagana Zulum. Bukar Moruma, a 53-year-old father of 10 children, who has been living in the NYSC camp as their IDP camp after being dislodged from Bama LGA seven years ago, said he and his household had been sleeping outside in the tense Auno community. “We were given tickets for houses but officials of the resettlement committee came and gave us #50,000 and dispersed us,” he added. Hauwa Isa, a mother of two, also from Bama, said, “They forcefully removed us from the camp with the promise that they will give us houses in Auno and money. Three days after leaving the camp, we are yet to see the houses they promised; they also have not given us money to rent accommodation.” Earlier, the State Governor, Prof. Babagana Zulum, while delivering his speech at the venue of the inauguration in Auno, warned all stranded IDPs to remain where they were until government allocated houses to them while also mandating the resettlement committee to begin the process of closing more camps. Zulum said, “All those IDPs that have been returned to Auno or their respective villages will not be allowed to return to the IDP camps again. “The security agency are hereby advised or directed to arrest any IDP that has left the IDP camp to resettle here or their main villages, but somehow voluntarily or without any cogent reason prefer to remain in the IDP camp.” There are about 2,000 households that have been resettled from Mohammed Goni College of Islamic Legal Studies and the NYSC IDP camps to the 580 housing units in Auno and another camp in Damasak, the headquarters of Mobbar Local Government Area where Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists dislodged thousands of residents about two months back. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com