The Governor of Bayelsa State, Mr Douye Diri, has reiterated his call on the Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria to relocate its operational headquarters to the state. Diri  spoke when the Shell Country Chair and SPDC Managing Director, Mr Osagie Okunbor, led a management delegation on a courtesy visit to Government House, Yenagoa. A statement on Wednesday by Diri’s Chief Press Secretary, Mr Daniel Alabrah, quoted the governor as saying that the presence of Shell in Bayelsa was essential for the economic benefits of both parties. He emphasised that the long-standing relationship between the state and Shell, following the discovery of oil in commercial quantity at Otuabagi community in the Ogbia Local Government Area, was proof that they were both inseparable in oil and gas business. Diri said, “On behalf of this administration and the people of Bayelsa State, I have been directed to invite you to relocate your headquarters to your state, the peaceful state of Bayelsa. “You are aware that I’m an apostle of the relocation of your headquarters. You will agree with me that Bayelsa is peaceful and stable. “I know it might not be very easy to relocate everything, but let us feel a fundamental presence of Shell. In fact, there is no reason why the Shell headquarters should be in any place other than Bayelsa.” Speaking on the legal dispute over outstanding revenues owed the state by the company; the governor said an amicable resolution was possible in the spirit of the renewed relationship between both parties. Okunbor commended Diri for key steps taken promote peace in the state and his leadership quality. He promised to sustain the relationship between the company and the state through investment in key development projects in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com