Sahara Foundation, the corporate citizenship vehicle of Sahara Group, has launched its inaugural Sahara Regenerator Technical Programme to promote capacity building among youths in Edo, Lagos and Rivers. In a statement, the company said that STRP would give beneficiaries a platform to develop technical skills in the installation and maintenance of meter and solar systems to enhance energy access, combat climate change and promote economic development in Nigeria. The programme, mapped out for 120 youths with informal/minimal education, is expected to help empower beneficiaries with resources to build sustainable businesses and ultimately become employers of labour. The foundation said it would partner with leading African academies, the Energy Training Centre and the Renewable Energy Association of Nigeria to implement STRP. Speaking on the development, the Director, Governance and Sustainability, Sahara Group, Pearl Uzokwe, said, “The regenerator program comes at a crucial time where a gap exists in the technical skills needed to implement efforts aimed at providing clean energy through solar and bridging Nigeria’s significant metering gap. “We are delighted at the opportunity to mould the next group of entrepreneurs in the power sector in line with Sahara Group’s vision to promote green energy and environmental sustainability.” The company said that the program would help participants develop competencies in the installation of single and three phase meters in residential and small commercial premises. ETC’s Managing Director, Ibiene Okeleke, said, “ETC is excited to partner with Sahara Foundation in building capacity in their communities through these two programmes. “The project will drive inclusive growth, poverty reduction through job creation and support the global energy transition mandate to provide cleaner forms of energy and aggressively reduce carbon emissions. We are proud to be associated with Sahara Foundation on this mission.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com