The University of Lagos has partnered with Coderina to help students acquire skills in robotics and artificial intelligence as well as to hone their creativity and entrepreneurial skills. Coderina is one of Africa’s top edtech not-for-profit organisations that leverage technology as an enabler for social, economic, and gender inclusion. While signing the Memorandum of Understanding, the Vice-Chancellor of the UNILAG, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, said he was certain the relationship would build enduring skills in the nation’s young adult population in preparation for the future of work. He said, “Addressing Africa’s skills gap in the age of technology would require bold steps to be taken in the area of capacity building. “The root of unemployment is not only a lack of jobs; a key underlying issue is also the inadequately educated workforce. And this challenge is likely to be amplified in the coming years due to the Fourth Industrial Revolution, characterised by fast-paced technological progress combined with other socio-economic and demographic changes, which will further transform labour markets. Hence, the time to start to address skills shortages is now.” The Lead/Coordinator of UNILAG’s AI & Robotics Lab, Dr Chika Yinka-Banjo, extolled the prospect and potential of the collaboration. She said the collaboration was already yielding results with Coderina having donated some robotics kits to the lab and provided training. She said, “Coderina has already prepared young learners for the FIRST Lego League Championship, a World Robotics Challenge, and now put together a UNILAG team for FIRST Tech Challenge. This partnership will not only benefit the university, but it will also help create an outreach programme for youth in the neighbouring underserved communities.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com