Branch International has restated its commitment to promoting financial inclusion in Nigeria. During a virtual event in Lagos, the company said it was achieving this by leveraging technology to offer a range of unique financial services to customers. According to Branch, the quest to make formal financial services accessible at an affordable rate to individuals and businesses was critical in systematically driving economic development. It said its offerings were designed to offer value to customers, while enabling them make payments and granting access to loans and investment opportunities. It said the product features included free and unlimited money transfers; free bills payment and airtime purchase; and a 20 per cent annual investment returns without any withdrawal restrictions.The Managing Director, Branch Nigeria, Adedayo Ademola, said, “At Branch, it is our commitment to keep up with our objective of leading the way in digital banking, in order to improve the financial wellbeing of Nigerians, unlock the greater potential within the financial services sector and promote seamless banking across the country. “Our approach as a mobile-only digital bank is deeply rooted in us prioritising the convenience, satisfaction and safety of our customers. “With Branch’s suite of unique products, we are consistently pushing the envelope by offering customers valuable services beyond the conventional banking needs thereby making a meaningful impact on their lives. Branch remains perfectly poised to take on the challenge of providing access to affordable financial services for all.” Branch said in the past three years of its operations in Nigeria, it had processed over N40bn in over three million loan transactions and remained one of the most downloaded financial apps in Africa. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com