A 39-year-old private school teacher based in Ibadan, Oyo State, Mrs Funmilola Opakunbi, has narrated how thugs allegedly hired to cause crisis in Eruwa during the Oyo State local government election shot dead her husband, Tayo Opakunbi. The widow told our correspondent in an interview that the deceased, who was an employee of the Adeseun Ogundoyin Polytechnic, Eruwa, was hit by a bullet while sitting in front his residence. Funmilola said she learnt that a politician allegedly recruited the gun-wielding thugs, who caused crisis at the polling unit at the Sango area of Eruwa during the poll, adding that a stray bullet fired by one of the hoodlums hit her husband above the waist and he died some hours after. She lamented that the police had yet to arrest anybody in connection with the killing, saying this might be because her husband was not an influential member of the society. The widow said amidst sobs, “My husband was not a politician and he did not go to the polling unit. Those, who saw how the incident happened, told me that he sat in front of his house in Eruwa and he was hit by a bullet fired by one of the hoodlums. “We live in Ibadan, but he worked at the polytechnic in Eruwa and that was why he was there. He usually came home every other week and the election weekend was when he was in Eruwa. “He lived in the Sango area of Eruwa and there is a polling unit opposite his house. Those, who were shooting, were not policemen; they were political thugs brought to the place by a politician. My husband’s neighbours and those who were there rushed him to a nearby private hospital, where he was attended to. “They later called his elder brother, but because there was restriction of movement and coupled with the crisis in Eruwa that day, it was very tough before his brother could get there. His brother did not tell me that my husband had been shot. “The private hospital later referred him to the Federal Medical Centre, Abeokuta, but because of the election crisis, the roads were blocked and there were bonfires, so he could not be taken to the FMC immediately. They went round, but there was no way they could get out of the town. They managed to circumvent some of the crisis spots at night and he gave up while he was being taken to the FMC. “He was taken to the General Hospital, Eruwa, where he was certified dead. The police issued their report and the death certificate was also issued at the hospital. “The police have not arrested anybody; my husband was killed because of a mere local government election and they have ruined my life.” The woman noted that her husband’s killing had caused a serious problem for her and her children, adding that his 84-year-old father and other family members had been thrown into mourning with nobody to help them. Asked how she intended to sponsor her three children, she burst into tears. Funmilola stated, “I am a private school teacher; my salary is poor and I don’t know how I will cope with three children now. The first born is 13 years and the last born is five years old. We were just planning how to pay the outstanding fees to the kids’ schools before this happened. “I called Tayo repeatedly that day because I wanted to talk to him, but the phone rang out. Nobody told me that he was shot. I became very worried and started calling his brother, but I was not told what happened until the following morning, when they could no longer hide it from me,” she added. The deceased’s brother, Olawale, also told our correspondent that Tayo was not a politician and he did not go to vote on the day he was killed. He called on the police to investigate the killing while soliciting assistance for the widow and the children. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Mr Adewale Osifeso, said he would find out the details of the incident and get back. But he had yet to do so as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com