The National Youth Service Corps has urged the Federal Government and stakeholders to provide mobile clinics for corps members to assist them in the provision of health care to the rural communities. The Director-General of the NYSC, Brig. General Shuaib Ibrahim, stated these in an interview with THE PUNCH while flagging off the nationwide Health Initiative for Rural Dwellers at Damagazan Hausawa in the Karu community of the Federal Capital Territory. He said, “Since the rural communities feel the impact of corps members, the government and other stakeholders should provide mobile clinics for them to move from one rural community to the other, administer health facilities to them and they will be able to write their reports for the government. Then, the government will know the nature of the ailment in the communities. “For instance, if the government knows that there is too much hypertension, they will know that the poverty level is so high and there is a problem. Corps members are on national emergency and intervention in our development process. Mobile clinics should be provided for corps members for them to be able to assist in the provision of healthcare to the rural communities.” According to him, the NYSC-HIDR was inaugurated in 2014 to deepen the impact of health care services towards promoting the wellbeing of indigent persons at the grassroots by granting them easier access to free and quality health care. “The programme is largely implemented through medical outreaches in communities across the country, during which corps medical volunteers carry out diagnosis, treatment, including minor medical procedures and referrals of patients. “I am pleased to report that so far, over two million persons have been attended to by the NYSC medical teams on the HIRD platform. Furthermore, the scheme has donated over 300 wheelchairs with the support of partners through this programme,” Ibrahim said.    Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com