Jobberman Nigeria said it has launched an enhanced ‘Best Match’ product that will help employers to find the best match for any job position within 10 working days. In a statement on Wednesday, it said the firm said the launch was part of its campaign tagged #AnewWaytoMatch, which aimed to introduce a new way to recruit for employers. The statement said, “The new and improved Best Match product is an automated candidate matching system that saves employers time and effort by screening, testing, and ranking the high volume of candidates received for an application, matching them with the best fit, faster. “With this product, employers get a shortlist of 10 qualified and tested candidates who match their job description the best in only 10 working days. “For employers, hiring the right talent for their job roles remains a major challenge. While finding good candidates through numerous recruitment methods might not be hard, finding the best talent, both in culture and in skill-set, can be excruciating.” The Chief Executive Officer, Jobberman Nigeria, Ms Rolake Rosiji, stated that the new product was designed to resolve the challenge of funding the best fit for a job role. She said, “With over a decade in the recruitment industry, we understand the challenge of finding the best fit for a job role in any company. “That is why we are pleased to reintroduce our Best Match product. As an innovative and technologically driven company, we have taken the feedback from all our customers and improved our product by incorporating artificial intelligence to ensure that employers get a shortlist of qualified and tested candidates who match their job description the best and spend less time in the hiring process.” The Product Lead, Jobberman Nigeria, Isaac Oni, also stated that “The new Best Match is designed to make work easier for employers by providing advanced technology to screen, test, and rank only the most qualified for open roles listed on the platform. “As leaders in the industry, we are working hard to give employers the best recruitment journey by matching them with only the best that’s right for them.” Within a month, Jobberman said it hoped to partner with new and existing employers towards full utilisation of the Best Match product. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com