Human rights activists under the aegis of the Take It Back Global Movement have threatened to sue the Federal Government and Nigerian Police over the attack on the Convener of #RevolutionNow, Omoyele Sowore, during a rally in Abuja. The PUNCH had reported that Sowore was injured by a tear gas canister fired by a police operative in Abuja. The former presidential candidate was preparing to hold a rally with some associates when the incident happened at the Unity Fountain in Abuja on Monday. Footage of the incident showed Sowore falling on the ground after the canister hit him. But the FCT Police Command in a statement by the command spokesperson, Mariam Yusuf, denied that Sowore was shot, saying there was no record of the incident. While speaking after being discharged from the hospital on Tuesday, Sowore said claims made by the police that no one was shot at the rally were false. Reacting, the activists described the attack on Sowore and other attackers as an abuse of human rights. In a statement by the group’s  Director of Communications, Dr. Chidi Nwanyanwu, the activists claimed that  Sowore was targeted and shot on the thigh with a 37mm projectile from a Federal Riot Gun at close Range. The statement said, “We strongly express stern reproof against any occurrences of human rights violations and their similitudes and assert that we shall pursue available means globally and nationally to defend the rights of Nigerian citizens against any of such oppressive and subjugative actions by any arm of the government, individual and or law enforcement officers who perpetrate such actions. “The despicable news of intentional and perpetual human rights violations continues to reach the global community and Nigerians in diaspora and their allies of the now acculturated norm of common impunity and practice by the Nigerian law enforcements; especially the Nigerian Police Force, who use lethal force in brutalizing peaceful Nigerian citizens who hold contrary views or agitations for better governance, provision of basic necessities and exercising of their basic human rights. “It is imperative to note that these Force members who themselves daily witness and experience the resultant decay in governance pay blind eye to the socio-economic and security decadence that impacts all citizens due to the failures of the same Government who consistently use them to obstruct and subjugate the rights of the citizens. “The repeated assault from Nigerian law enforcement and especially the Nigerian Police Force is a well-documented fact. Brutal targeting of peaceful protesters, especially Omoyele Steven Sowore will necessitate action by the Global Take It Back Movement to include and not limited to lodging grievance at the International Court of Justice at The Hague against these particular officers, their unit and the Nigerian Police Force or any other force for their dastardly acts and wanton use of force on peaceful protesters without recourse. “The Global Take It Back Movement shall hereafter pursue a legal process against lethal use of excessive force on any Nigerian citizens especially members of TIB Global movement.”