Heirs Life Assurance has said it partnered with Avon Medical to organise a blood drive in commemoration of the 2021 World Blood Donor Day. In a statement on Wednesday, the firm said the event, which was held on Monday in Lagos, had individuals present to donate blood for those in dire need of medical attention. It stated that the partnership between both companies set out to increase awareness of the importance of safe blood for transfusion and highlighted the critical role voluntary blood donors played in national health. The Chief Marketing Officer, Heirs Life Assurance, Ifesinachi Okpagu, said the partnership was in line with the company’s goal of promoting, not just the importance of life insurance, but wholesome living. She said, “At the core of our business operations at Heirs Life Assurance is care for people and their families and we are pleased to have demonstrated this with our partnership with Avon Medical. “There are several statistics that show that blood donation is of much benefit to the end user as much as it is to donors and here today, we are raising awareness for the need to encourage this culture and celebrate as many that have come out to be superheroes.” The Head, Marketing and Corporate Communications at Avon Medical, Shekinah Olagunju, also expressed delight at the partnership. Olagunju described it as laudable especially as it helped both companies further their commitment to building a healthier nation and, in the process, improving the economy and transforming Africa; values held by the companies within the Heirs Holdings group portfolio. Since its official launch on June 1, Heirs Life had continued to actively push its offering of life insurance that was simple, quick, accessible, and reliable with its array of value adding products, served on several easy-to-use platforms, the statement said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com