Some couples spoke to our correspondent on what they would do if neglected by their partners during serious illness It’ll end our union Moby Akins If my spouse left me at a time when I was battling a critical illness, then that would be the end of the partnership. There is really no need to mince words because except if he was in jail, also critically ill or dead, there would be no tenable excuse for his absence. It is simple; my spouse is supposed to be my partner. Let me break it down further; the word partner came from the French word ‘partiner,’ which basically means “a sharer or partaker in anything.” Therefore, if you choose to only share in the good, fine and dandy with me, but you cannot continue to be my partner and by extension, my spouse (after abandonment). It’s a simple logic. It shows trust is gone Sarafa Adekunle Marriage is built on trust. Even when illness comes as a challenge, one would hope that we will be there for each other. If my spouse abandons me during critical illness (God forbid!), it means there is no more trust. When there is no more trust, love will be gone. I won’t accept such a spouse. My response is on the keyword ‘abandon.’ Also, on the fact that everyone has agreed that she “abandoned” me. If that’s the case, there might not be a room for acceptance even when there is apology. To be sincere, marriage of many years is really difficult to say “never” when events happen. One part of me may accept her but she will have to prove herself. Accepting him is like living with devil again Adeola Aje Under no circumstance should my partner leave me or abandon me. We didn’t marry for good times only. We married for better and for worse. A friend in need is a friend indeed. If somebody I am married to can abandon me because of a critical illness and he wanted to return after I had got better, I won’t take such a partner back. It means that if I had died, he would have moved on with his life. Things like this actually matters in determining a future with somebody. I am not in support of accepting such a partner. That person is dangerous and can hurt me. It is like starting to leave with the devil again because he has actually shown me he doesn’t care about me. It is not acceptable and advisable to take such a partner back. I will accept her back Musbau Agbodemu Yes, I will accept her back because it is only God that is perfect. We should learn to forgive and forget others as implied in Matthew 6:19 which says “Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name; thy kingdom come; thy will be done; on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation; but deliver us from evil….” So, I will forgive her, accept her back and move on.  I won’t accept him back Medinah Adekoyejo A relationship could be a great experience if it is true and healthy. The essence of a relationship is to show love, empathy, commitment, resolve conflicts and communicate even in discord. Many say these things but drift away when it is time to show the actual workings. Quite sadly, a relationship is a thing to enjoy when it is easy to many people. You cannot claim to be in love with me and be the first to jet out when the going gets tough. No. No one leaves whoever they claim to love like that. You claim to love me but the best way to show it is to leave me to die? Yet, you expect me to welcome you back with hands wide open like the returning prodigal son? No. It will not work like that. You left when life hit with asteroids, then be gone forever. The universe will test us with many more unpleasant experiences. Is that how he will leave every time? The barest minimum of any relationship is to have a partner who will be there when the other person’s wings are down. For better or for worse they say. I will not take such a partner back. No love lost apparently. I can accept her again Afeez Adekoya I think I understand what a critical illness is, and the spouse will have to go through a lot during that time because it is not truly easy to take care of a critically-ill patient. If she abandoned me during that time, I think I can accept her again, it depends on the extent of love I have for her. I will not be reluctant to give her another chance. However, I have to let her know the implications of the abandonment and also let her know how she will feel if I also do the same to her in such a critical time when she needs me most. We’d go our separate ways Seun Oralusi No, I cannot accept such a spouse. When we made the vow, it was to be together in sickness and health. If he can stay with me in good health, he should also stay with me in sickness. If he abandoned me during a critical illness, I will not take him back. Let everybody go their separate way. God forbid, if I was tempted to leave a spouse because of a critical illness, if he refuses to take me back it is understandable because I won’t take such a partner back too. I’ll forgive but won’t accept her Olukayode Osikomaiya It’s a two-way thing. As a human being, I will not accept her back. Why did she abandon me when I was sick? Many things would come to my head. Maybe she had someone she was dating while I was sick or had a hidden agenda before I got sick. What if I had died? Somebody that we stood one day and said, ‘my ribs for your ribs; for better, for worse till death doth us part.’ Now it was not even death; it was sickness and she abandoned me. I will not accept her back. However as a man who studied the Bible which teaches us to forgive people that offend us. As a man of God, I would pray over it and ask Him for divine intervention on the matter. I will forgive her but I will not take her back. She should go and live her life the way she wants. We can’t be together again Grace Osinfowokan I will not accept that kind of husband back into my life. It shows that he does not really love me. If he does, he would not abandon me no matter how critical the illness could be. I see no reason I should accept someone who was not there for me when I needed him most. If he apologises, I will forgive him but I am not sure I will accept him back. Some reasons ’ll make me accept or reject her Monday Ganiyu I will say yes and no based on conditions. There are different ways to abandon someone. It can be partially or completely. Physical presence is really important. Sometimes when one is sick, the presence of loved ones helps to keep hope alive. If my spouse abandoned me physically but financially she has been supportive, forgiveness can set in and she can be accepted. But if she abandons me completely without any contribution or support, I will not accept her back. I will feel hurt but I can forgive her and let go. There is no way I will accept her back without having the feelings she would leave later. By abandoning me, it was as if she left me for dead. If I had a spouse who abandoned me completely when I was critically ill and showed up when I recovered, I would not accept her back. She can be forgiven but she won’t be accepted. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com