Contemporary policing in Nigeria is characterised by a chasm of distrust and insubordination between the police and the community they swore to protect, creating an antagonistic relationship between the police and community members. The pre-colonial history of Nigeria however reveals that this has not always been the trend. The ‘age grade security system’ of the ancient Igbo community, for example, effectively implemented the concept of community policing, though not recognised strictly as such. With the advent of colonialism however, this concept of ‘community policing’ was distorted with the institution of the Native Authority police system. The Native Authority police was a tool for political victimisation in the hands of the imperialists and later, politicians of the First Republic. This has in fact driven a wedge between the people and the police till this day. Community policing represents a paradigm shift from the traditional model of policing to a system that encourages the integration of the public into police institutions, not only as police personnel but also as collaborators in the security affairs of the nation. More so, as an ‘alternative security approach’, it is wholly oriented to solve community problems. Problems which aren’t necessarily termed as crimes and solutions which aren’t often restricted to arrests. Thus, citizens’ involvement in policing encompasses reporting crimes in progress or otherwise, giving witness statements, assisting police in solving crimes and so on. Unfortunately, the police-community relation is anything but mutual and this communication gap exists due solely to lack of trust between these parties. The purported concept of ‘anonymity’ of anyone reporting crime to the police is illusive, as one’s identity will often be given away to crime perpetrators or their cohorts who will thereafter unleash terror on the ‘reporter’.  Another impediment to the cordiality of the police and the people is the belief that the police exist only to further perpetuate inequality in society and to further suppress and repress the lower class, already alienated from the economic resources of the “upper class”. To put it into perspective, the ‘richer’ in the Nigerian communities enjoy easier access to the machinery of the police than the ‘ordinary’ citizen not to mention the fact that the Nigeria Police is riddled with corruption and almost every form of criminal act, some, accurately reported by the police while others, exaggerated to further widen this gap. Training and education are crucial if the implementation of community policing initiatives is to be successful. Thus, fundamental changes in strategy, tactics and organisation to not only influence the way the police respond to crime, but also the way they search for crime solutions are necessary and must in fact be incorporated to all aspects of police recruit training.  In actual fact, the training of men of the Nigeria Police needs to expand beyond arrest procedures to include building effective inter-personal skills, anger management and community orientation. In every state where community policing will be implemented, keen attention must be paid to the individual peculiarities of such states. Policing particularly in divided societies is often a bumpy ride as most local conflicts in such states have ethno-religious, communal and political ties. Others are deeply rooted in structural violence, indigene-settler dichotomies, land wars, ancient stereotypes and unresolved disputes. Hence, without adequate regulation, members of the police may embrace sentiments and tribalism thus asserting their personal affinities in carrying out community policing functions. Community security experts should be put together to design a clear-cut mode of operation, determine areas of jurisdiction to ensure accountability and progress. • John Opeyemi, Lagos. 09037655612