There was tension in Igangan and other communities in Ibarapaland of Oyo State on Monday over the presence of some gunmen in forest. Recall that suspected herdsmen had killed about 17 residents of Igangan town on Sunday morning. On Monday, our correspondent gathered that pupils did not go to school in Igangan as residents were still in shock. Although schools were opened in Tapa,  Ayete and other communities which are close to Igangan, our correspondent gathered that parents later withdrew  their children following a rumour that some armed herdsmen were sighted in the forest around the area. A resident of Ayete, who spoke on condition of anonymity, “Students were in school this morning and teachers were also there but suddenly were heard that those in Tapa had gone to schools to withdraw their children, so, we went to school to withdraw our children also.” The Chairman of Ibarapa North Local Government Area of Oyo State, Mr Lateef Akorede, told our correspondent that the area was now safe as policemen and vigilantes were combing the forests. He said, “There were fears that the attackers might come back again and security men went to some places where gunmen were reportedly sighted but nobody was there.” The Asigangan of Igangan, Oba Lasisi Adeoye, when contacted also said there was no problem in Igangan on Monday but said the people were living in fear. Arm yourselves everywhere, smoke out invaders, Akintoye tell S’West states Meanwhile, the leader of Ilana Omo Oodua, Prof. Banji Akintoye, has called on Yoruba people in the South-West to defend themselves against the rampaging gunmen with anything they can lay their hands on. Akintoye, also urged South-West governors to set aside constitution objections and defend their people. Akintoye said this in a statement on Monday to react to the attack on people of Igangan by suspected herdsmen. Akintoye said, “First we call on our state governors to push aside all the constitutional objections that have been constantly raised from certain quarters whenever our governors have taken measures to defend our people. “We are particularly grateful to Governor Akeredolu of Ondo State and all other governors who support him in the patriotic and manly statement that he has issued on the Igangan disaster. “The persistent Ilana Omo Oodua calls to arms of all Yoruba people on their farms, hamlets, villages, towns, cities and other communities must now be urgently activated with communal self defence systems, around their abodes and places of work.” He added, “Arm yourselves with whatever you can lay your hands upon, create or develop as individuals, and as communities to confront the enemy. “Ensure they no longer succeed in their mission anywhere in Yorubaland. Our technology wizards are already putting together structures that will protect our land and destroy the enemy.” Akintoye said it would not be out of place to accuse the Federal Government of sponsoring terror against the people. “While allowing the Fulani to move freely with and to import various categories of weapons into Nigeria, the Federal Government prohibited the possession of any kind of fire arms by any indigenous citizens of Nigeria, sending the police and army to seize such privately owned weapons including those for which these citizens had earlier been licensed for hunting and sports,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com