Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, said on Thursday that the All Progressives Congress government led by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had failed Nigerians. Ortom, who was the guest of Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State in Ibadan at the inauguration of the Moniya-Ijaiye-Iseyin Road, said Nigerians all over the country were in pain due to the collapsing economy and insecurity. He said the failure was obvious to everybody, because the country’s security and economy were much better before Buhari took over in 2015. Ortom said the APC lacked the capacity to turn around the situation of the country, adding that the ruling party should be changed in 2023. The governor stated, “The PDP is working despite all the economic and security challenges. The PDP has demonstrated leadership and that is why we are inaugurating this road today, which is amazing. “I want to challenge the APC in this country, because they have failed. Economically and security-wise, they have failed. Socially and politically, the APC government is in deficit. Government is all about providing security for lives and property. “Let me, once again call on the APC Federal Government to rise up and give leadership, because our people are in pain. From the North-East, North-West to the North-Central to the South-South, South-East and the South-West, everyone is faced with security challenges and without security, there can be no meaningful development, except in the PDP-controlled state. “In 2015, the mantle of leadership was given to the APC. But from all indications, it is clear to every Nigerian that the APC does not have the capacity to deliver. Go and check, economically, how much was one dollar (to the naira) when the APC came into government in 2015.” He added, “What was the nature of our security in this country when the APC took over power? What was our social relationship in this country? Politically too, where were we? But let us work hard and by praying. As we pray, whether Muslims or Christians, let us also apply work, because faith without work is dead. “So, let us work very hard so that come 2023, by the grace of God, we shall change the change.” Makinde explained the reason why he increased the contract sum by N2.9bn, saying the initial contract was just to patch the very bad portions alone. He added that the road would last for at least 10 years before any rehabilitation would be done on it. The governor stated, “So, with all the available data, we decided that the more logical thing to do would be to increase the contract sum by about N2.9bn and deliver the quality of road that our people deserve. “What we have done here is the total reconstruction of this 65km road at N9.9bn and this translates to N152m per kilometre. So again, based on science, data and logic, we made the best decision overall.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com