If you have at one time or the other visited some of the states in the country, you would not have any choice but to conclude that most of our so-called governors have no business in anything governance and they are there probably by proxy. This is just about the reality on the ground. It’s quite unfortunate that it is so as it’s not looking like something that would change anytime soon. The very fact that their body language does not speak otherwise has left much to be desired. With all the allocations going to states every month, one would expect that these governors should at least give their states a facelift by building infrastructure, roads, electricity, water which are basic amenities and ensure that their states are sparkling. The fact that they always travel out of the country and see what good environment is all about should have been an added impetus to help galvanise them into steady actions. Sadly, that has not been the case as what we see are dilapidated infrastructure, deplorable roads, ineffective health centres and so on, yet the governors are rich to their teeth. All this begs for questions like, why did they come out in the first place to vie for the position when they knew they had nothing to offer? Is it that their conscience is dead that they are not at all perturbed by the all-round decadence in the states they claim to govern? Is there no one around them telling them to their face that their administrations are in the shambles and they need to buckle down? If they can answer all these questions correctly, probably they would have a rethink and do the right thing. It will amaze you that these governors visit one other in different states, but rather than get the stick from their colleagues, they would get pats on their back for a ‘very good job they did not do’ which is rather unfortunate. Does any governor even need his colleague’s advice to do the right thing? Accountability has gradually left our system, that is, if we do have a system at all. No one berates anyone, rather they surround themselves with sycophants who seldom tell them the truth but praise them for doing virtually nothing. Go to states like Abia and Niger and you will not be proud to come out happy as it looks as if they have never for once had governors that have the interest of their people at heart, development-wise especially. There are other states like that but these two states need some divine intervention or their present governors will go, leaving their states just like their predecessors. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com