The Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami, has said that the Information Technology sector has saved the country over N22.4bn through measures created to curtail corruption. He said this on Thursday while addressing journalists at the All Progressives Congress Professional forum at the party’s headquarters in Abuja. This was disclosed in a press statement titled ‘Pantami gives account of stewardship as Digital Economy Minister’ by the spokesperson for the Ministry, Uwa Suleiman. During the forum, Pantami talked about the strategies the IT sector had deployed in line with the three point agenda of security, anti-corruption and economic development of the President, Major General Muhammad Buhari (rtd.). “The strategies include the development and implementation of over a dozen policies to enable the digitalisation of Nigeria in line with global best practices,” he stated. Regarding the amount saved, Pantami stated that IT sector as at “March 2021 has successfully saved over N22.4bn to the federal coffers by executing its mandate to support the anti-corruption drive of the President Muhammad Buhari administration through the implementation of the information technology projects clearance policy. “Under this policy, over 727 institutions have complied with over 323 projects cleared in accordance with the laid down guidelines.” The minister added that the policy on virtual engagements for public institutions had been critical in the fight against corruption and reduction of governance cost while promoting e-governance. He mentioned that over 210,000 Nigerians had been equipped with digital skills through the DigitalNigeria portal. Pantami stated, “Under the DigitalNigeria portal, over 210,000 citizens including women, youths and the physically challenged have been equipped with various digital skills for economic empowerment. “These trainings are implemented in collaboration with technology giants like Microsoft, Huawei, Cisco, etc. and the certificates are globally recognised and respected.” The statement added that “The Honourable Minister also noted that the sector has established over 300 ICT Centres, fully funded by the Federal Government across all states in the federation, including the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja.” The minister also said that the National Policy on SIM registration and the revised Policy on NIN/SIM linkage had helped in fighting insecurity in Nigeria. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com