The Joint Task Force conducting operation in the Essien Udim Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State and it environs said it had arrested 10 armed men in connection with the killing of security operatives and burning of police facilities in the last few months. The task force, comprising the Nigerian Army, the police, the Department of State Services and the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, raided Ntak Ikot Akpan, Abama, Ikot Ekpene and Obot Akara local government areas of the state. A statement by the state Commissioner of Police, Andrew Amiengheme, on Wednesday titled: ‘Update on the Joint Task Force operation in Essien Udim and environs’, said many items, including AK-47 rifles, vehicles, cartridges, cash and others were recovered during the operation. The statement read in part, “The operations of the Joint Task Force have yielded a lot of success with more still being done. “Following coordinated raids on the locations of criminal elements at Ntak Ikot Akpan, Abama and Ikot Akpan in Essien Udim, Obot Akara and Ikot Ekpene local government areas by the Joint Task Force, a total of 10 suspects, who are directly linked to the killings of security personnel and destruction of property were arrested.” Items recovered from the suspects, according to the statement, include one grey Toyota Hilux with number plate ENU 762 YJ; one white and ash Mitsubishi bus with number plate XE 276 ABA; one white Sino truck with number plate SSM 505 ZR and one blue Toyota Corolla with number plate GWA 955 BF Others are four motorcycles, four AK-47 rifles, four G3 rifles, eight Dane guns, three riot guns, 28 AK-47 magazines, two G3 magazines and 654 rounds of ammunition, among others. The statement urged residents of the state, especially those in the affected areas, to go about their lawful duties without fear of molestation and be vigilant and ready to give timely information to the police and other security agencies. The CP appreciated the contributions of the Nigerian Army and other sister security agencies, and urged them to continue to work with the police as a team to secure Akwa Ibom State. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com