Former Super Eagles coach, Samson Siasia has declined comments after the Court of Arbitration for Sports reduced FIFA’s life-ban on him to five years. CAS also cancelled the $50,000 fine imposed on Siasia by FIFA, while also backdating the ban to start on August 16, 2019. Responding to our correspondent’s  enquiry on the CAS ruling, Siasia said he would need to get briefings from his lawyers before commenting. “Not now, I am sorry, I need to finish with my lawyers first, then I know what to say,” Siasia told The PUNCH. CAS in its ruling, said Siasia, being a first offender should not have been banned for life. It also said the offence was committed passively and did not have an adverse or immediate effect on football stakeholders. “The Panel determined the imposition of a life ban to be disproportionate for a first offence which was committed passively and which had not had an adverse or immediate effect on football stakeholders, and that a five-year ban would still achieve the envisaged aim of punishing the infringement committed by Mr Siasia. “The Panel acknowledged the need for sanctions to be sufficiently high enough to eradicate bribery and especially match-fixing in football. “However, the Panel considered in the particular circumstances of this matter that it would be inappropriate and excessive to impose a financial sanction in addition to the five-year ban, since the ban sanction already incorporated a financial punishment in eliminating football as a source of revenue for Mr Siasia, and considering that Mr Siasia had not obtained any gain or pecuniary benefit from his unethical behavior,” CAS said. In August 2019, world football body FIFA banned Siasia for life and fined him $50,000 for agreeing to “the manipulation of matches” for betting purposes. According to FIFA, the Olympic silver medalist’s ban emanated from an extensive investigation into matches that Wilson Perumal attempted to fix. A statement from FIFA’s independent Ethics Committee said, “Siasia was found guilty of having accepted that he would receive bribes in relation to the manipulation of matches that Perumal attempted to manipulate for betting purposes.” But Siasia denied the charges and appealed the ban at CAS. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com