Banking is a lot different today than it was at the start of my career over 30 years ago, and I am grateful for that. More innovations and creativity have led to more growth and opportunities, which in turn open the door to more innovations and creativity. On and on, the virtuous cycle goes. Many years ago, you were likely to get a job and become financially independent within a few years after graduation. Sadly, this isn’t the case for young Nigerians right now – a group that constitutes about 42.5 per cent of the national population. The population of Nigeria has grown exponentially, and with it has come increased competition for jobs. To make up for this, more young people are starting businesses and embracing creative career choices. They are taking control of their destinies. However, what young people have today that we didn’t have before is the abundance of choice fueled by the rapid penetration of the Internet and digital technology. These two factors have introduced new dimensions to how we do business and make money. Today, young Nigerians have more career choices, with technology replacing some jobs with new ones. In addition, there are also more options for communication. Back then, you needed to see someone physically, talk to them through a landline or send hardcopy letters. Today, we have smartphones that can allow us to speak with our friends in myriad ways, including over social media, instant messaging apps, email, and audio and video calls. As all these new developments have impacted how we relate as humans, they have also influenced banking. So, now, we have a generation of entrepreneurial and creative Nigerians, a generation accustomed to living through mobile and digital technology. If you didn’t already know, technology and software have revolutionised every industry known to man. We see this especially in the financial sector, but it applies to others as well. Today, some of the most popular “banks” are simply apps that offer financial services to young Nigerians, who make up most of Nigeria’s population. But, because of their sheer size and cultural influence, every other generation is having to adapt. This means banks have to upgrade their systems and services to deliver online and around the clock. This also means banks have to become more creative with their services and embrace convenience as a competitive advantage. With Nigeria now having over 100 million Internet users as of January 2021, digitalisation and tech innovation have become the primary routes to achieving ambitious goals and objectives for financial service providers. These factors influenced our introduction of ALAT by Wema Bank, long before other banks caught up and long before the fintech bug bit our ecosystem. We saw the inevitable future coming, and we have positioned ourselves to play a massive role in bringing it to fruition. We introduced ALAT in 2017 as a bank that is flexible and intuitive, a perfect match for Nigerians who value their time and enjoy the convenience that technology brings. ALAT has over 574,242 customers and has processed over 43,000,000 transactions worth over N1tn.  This growth is important to us as we work with the government to deepen financial inclusion in Nigeria. According to data from the Nigerian Inter Bank Settlement System, just 43 million Nigerians have Bank Verification Numbers (BVN) – less than 50 per cent of the adult population. This shows there is still much work to be done to get more Nigerians to have access to modern banking services. ALAT in its four years of existence has won several awards, including ‘Best Mobile Banking App’ and ‘Best Digital Bank for 2017’ at the World Finance Digital Banking Awards; ‘Best Digital Bank in Africa’ at 2018 Asian Banker Awards, and the ‘Best Digital Platform Nigeria 2019 Award’. For ALAT, the first step is providing efficient and cost-effective financial services to our customers. Signing up gives you access to a free debit card, which is delivered straight to your doorstep. In addition, you can track your savings goals, which helps you control your finances and make better financial decisions. You can also enjoy our increased interest rates for your savings and domiciliary accounts. Then, we offer our customers a level of speed and convenience that epitomise the spirit of this era. You can pay your bills from anywhere in the world, whether you are working or on vacation. You also have access to low-interest loans whenever you need them for personal or business purposes. Our Artificial Intelligence system offers you quick and convenient loans that require no collateral – paperwork-free loans. This AI-powered system also helps you plan, transact, and carry out your daily activities. It shows we care about you in totality. We appreciate what drives young Nigerians and their search for purpose, and we understand that access to more funds, encouraging healthy savings options can facilitate that search. We recently increased the savings rate on the app, which means that users can plan for the future or save up for short-term goals with even more competitive interest rates – as high as 8.75 per cent. All these you can enjoy with the push of a button on the ALAT by Wema app. This is what true digital financial service looks like. This is what the future looks like. And we are ready for it. Perhaps the most significant validation for this is our collective experience in the past year. The COVID-19 pandemic changed our habits and perceptions, and it encouraged us to adopt new ways of doing things. It also made more apparent the importance of digital banking services. ALAT was already well-positioned to serve our current and new customers by the time movement restrictions, lockdowns, and new behaviours kicked in. Over the years at Wema Bank, our mission has been to give every customer a delightful and memorable service experience. A vital part of this is ensuring we are ever ready and well-positioned for a constantly evolving future. It is also essential that we keep charting the course for digital banking services in Nigeria. Through ALAT, we have proven our ability to do this, and we are more than excited for what the future holds. ADEBISE is the Managing Director, Wema Bank Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com