BENUE State Governor, Samuel Ortom, has named his Chief Press Secretary, Terver Akase, Speaker of the State Assembly, Rt Hon. Titus Uba, Dr Paul Ubwa, Dondu Ahire, Dr Robert Orya and his Commissioner for Education, Professor Dennis Ityavyar, among those likely to succeed him in office. Ortom, revealed these names while speaking at an event at the JS Tarka Institute of Political Studies Gboko, on Sunday. He spoke just as several stalwarts of the ruling Peoples Democratic Party were expressing interest in taking over from him at the expiration of his term in 2023. Ortom also received many members of the opposition All Progressive Congress, who were led by Joseph Kaaba and Emmanuel Kwaghgba who were introduced as some of those who had signified interest in governing the state. He explained that the PDP alone already had more aspirants than those earlier introduced as those jostling to succeed him. He urged the State PDP Chairman, John Ngbede, to convene a meeting with all governorship aspirants to work out modalities to ensure only the best candidate becomes the party’s standard bearer. While promising to work with the party leadership towards throwing up a consensus candidate, he said if that fails, “the decision would be made at the party primary election which we will ensure that is free and fair.” Responding, the State PDP Chairman, John Ngbede,  described the APC as a sinking  ship which he said should be abandoned by the good people of Benue State. He appealed to the people to join the PDP and support the Ortom-led PDP administration. Speaking on behalf of those who left the APC to join the PDP, Kaaba said, Ortom’s good works attracted him and his colleagues into the PDP. He promised to continue to support the party and the governor to achieve the desired development goals of the party for the people of the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com