Olufemi Olaniyi, Ibadan No fewer than 10 persons have been reportedly killed by suspected killer Fulani herdsmen at Igangan, in Ibarapa North Local Government Area of Oyo State. Residents told our correspondent that the attack started at around midnight on Sunday. The assailants who were said to be many reportedly shot dead five residents and security agents who were said to have rushed to the town also killed five among the attackers. A truck loaded with cassava flour and some cars were said to have been set ablaze by the rampaging gunmen during the midnight attack. Some of the residents of Ayete, which is the headquarters of Ibarapa North Local Government Council told our correspondent that residents of Igangan sent messages across to them. and others in Ibarapa communities to help them get across to security agencies to come to their rescue. The Secretary of Farmers’ Union, Mr. Taiwo Adeagbo who is popularly known as Akowe Agbe told our correspondent around 12:39 am that the town was under a serious attack. He said, ” At last notorious terrorist herdsmen are now waging war against lgangan. The situation is a very serious one. “They are shooting everywhere. It is very serious now. They have killed, burnt vehicles and committed series of atrocities. “They killed many people. We will ascertain the number of the victims in the morning time” But at 3:12 am Adeagbo said the shooting had reduced.
.
Akowe Agbe later said around 5 am that ” The Fulani terrorists killed no fewer than five persons in Igangan. ” Security agents also killed five of the terrorists. But we will know the extent of damage and.the.number of victims in the morning. ” The terrorists also set a petrol station ablaze, cars were also burnt and a truck loaded with cassava flour travelling to Ibadan was also razed.” The Convener of Igangan Development Advocates, Oladiran Oladokun, also told our correspondent that the attack had subsided at around 3 am. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Adewale Osifeso, could not be reached and he was yet to reply to the messages sent to him by our correspondent. There have been reports of attacks against residents by Fulani herdsmen in Igangan and other parts of Ibarapaland. Sunday Adeyemo popularly known as Sunday Igboho had in January issued a seven-day ultimatum to the Seriki Fulani, Abdukadir Salihu, who was accused of being behind many of the attacks. On the expiration of the ultimatum, angry youths from Ibarapa communities invaded the Seriki’s residence and destroyed his property.