STUDENTS of the Rivers State College of Health Science and Management Technology took to the streets of Port Harcourt on Tuesday to protest the absence of electricity, poor sanitation and alleged neglect by the state government. The students blocked the Ikwerre road by Agip junction stretch of the metropolis to drive home their message. The angry students said they had not taken their bath for one week following the lack of electricity which consequently affected their water supply and worsen sanitary conditions in the college. While displaying placards with several writings such as ‘no water, our classrooms are dilapidated as if we don’t pay fees’, ‘Environment not conducive to environment’, ‘This kind school; na wa oo’, among others, the students said Governor Nyesom Wike had literally abandoned them to their fate, while paying attention to institutions in the state. Speaking with newsmen, one of the students said, “We are on a protest because we don’t have light; we pay hostel fees, yet we don’t have water to bath. “No light to iron our uniforms, infections are everywhere because we have not washed our bathrooms for several weeks. The situation is tense and we are not happy.” Another student, who simply gave his name as Chibueze, said, “The school appeared to have been abandoned. The governor has been addressing all issues in other schools in the state but no attention is given to us. “We have resumed exams; the whole institution is using only one mono-pump. We paid close to N300,000 yet no basic amenities, government should come and rescue us.” When contacted, the Provost of the school, Prof. Frankly Nlerum, said he was neither aware of the protest nor informed of the lack of water supply. On the fees mentioned by the students, Nlerum said, “We use it as internally generated revenue to hire lecturers that help to teach the students in order to meet up the regulatory bodies, maintain the sanitation, cut the grasses and handle other issues.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com