Seth Amaefule, a litigation lawyer whose write-up on the violation of human rights by the Lagos State Police Command went viral on social media, tells ALEXANDER OKERE why human rights violations have continued in the Nigeria Police despite the disbandment of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad You shared a post detailing your experience during a recent visit to a former Special Anti-Robbery Squad unit at the Lagos State Police Command. What struck you about the way the police handled suspects in relation to human rights? I was very clear about my perception of the police. The police do not only disrespect human rights, they disdain the idea that anybody has any right at all. They do not recognise that such rights exist and I think it is something that is inbred in them. Let us speak in respect of the Lagos State Police Command which I wrote about. Incidentally, I was there today (Thursday) and I still saw more human rights violations. What impression did you have when you saw how the young man accused of cultism was tortured by policemen, as written in your Facebook post? I was heartbroken. Something in me wept. Irrespective of whatever that person may have done, torture is something I consider to be very unkind to humans. What exactly did one of the policemen who told you to leave the scene of the torture tell you? He said, “Lawyer, wait outside. This one is not for you”. I believe you read that piece I wrote and I said I still observed that they (policemen) wear that (SARS) jacket; it’s just that the word ‘SARS’ has been replaced with ‘Police’. But, they still mete out the same kind of treatment yo suspects in their custody. Right from the time of (the disbanded) SARS till now, any time you are there, you may notice that a time comes when they say, “Everybody, go out!” And once you begin to hear, “Everybody, out,” serious torture is about to begin. And within a short time, you begin to hear screams and howls, and those who have stayed late would tell you that one would hear gunshots. That was the era of SARS. Here, again, SARS is not there anymore but that still obtains. A time comes when they tell everybody to stay away or go out; that happened today (Thursday). So, I know it is still a practice that has continued despite the protests by the public. Did you later find out whether the tortured suspect you saw survived the ordeal? I have a certain belief that they didn’t go to the point of taking the person’s life under torture. When they want to do that, there is a torture chamber where, they can torture someone to death, not in their interrogation. For that (torture) to have happened in their interrogation room, it was simply to put sufficient duress on that suspect so he would cooperate and give answers as directed. What offence was your client arrested for? No, I will not go to that. Are there other instances of human rights abuses and torture by the police that you have witnessed in recent time? When you talk about human rights abuse, there are various facets. Torture is one aspect of it that deals with the right to the dignity of a person. But the right to liberty is also a fundamental human right, so if you are entitled to something but are deprived of it, it is a breach or violation of your human rights. For instance, my client was not tortured, but being in their custody and refusing to release him is a violation of his fundamental rights. And I know that this is a routine within the police and every other law enforcement agency. Are there cases of your clients who died in police custody from torture without a trial recently? Not in recent times but a long time ago. One of them died. The person had already been charged to court but the court did not release the person on bail because of the nature of the charge and it appeared there was an element of premeditation or malice in the matter. I think my client was innocent of that charge. He was a policeman, a sergeant, and there was something to do with a very senior police officer and that senior officer swore that my client would not come out of the matter alive. He did not die under torture; he was charged for armed robbery and the court did not grant bail. The trial prolonged. There was arson in the court – a part of the court got burnt – and it affected the courtroom where the case was heard. The case file was burnt and it caused a very long delay and at the end of it, my client died in custody. There was another person that was arrested with him in connection with the same offence. The painful part was that the other person had already obtained a visa to travel out of Nigeria and was due to leave the next day or a day after. He was tortured in custody and in the course of the torture, his manhood was mutilated. If I remember clearly, I think he died too. You said the old SARS still exists despite their disbandment by the immediate past IGP. Do you think this makes a mockery of the demands of Nigerians and why do you think the lives of Nigerians lost during the #EndSARS protest was in vain? Yes, it makes a mockery of the entire protest. I know that when a similar protest rocked the United States (of America) and there was a general outcry in many countries of the world, there were very radical reforms made in policing in various counties of the United States. There was a clear response and it was made public and verifiable. People were in agreement that it was a proper response to their complaint. In the case of Nigeria – in fact, what happened in Nigeria was worse than that in the United States – the response by the Nigeria Police was perfunctory, in the sense that it was just like a show for people to think the police had changed the name from SARS to SWAT. What of the policemen? What of the issue of instituting a panel of enquiry. It is not about the one that was instituted by the Lagos State Government or other state governments. The police ought to do a kind of internal cleansing or auditing of the activities of their personnel to know those who were responsible for the breaches that people complained about. They didn’t do that; they merely changed the name and allowed them to continue, and nobody has done anything. So, if you come to look at it all, you will see that lives and properties were lost and a lot of resources were lost during that protest. Look at the grievances that led to the protest and look at what we have today, whether those grievances have, in fact, been answered. The answer is no; they were not addressed at all. Of course, the government would say, after all, the protest was codenamed ‘#EndSARS’ and so, they ended SARS and started SWAT. They have only ended SARS in name, not in spirit. The spirit of SARS is still well and alive and is still operating. I will tell you what one (police) officer said in that same interrogation room where I was on the day that I observed them. Somebody was also tortured similarly today (Thursday, June 17). A particular person who was receiving a beating was told, “It is because of #EndSARS that you think the police do not exist. Don’t worry; by the time we take you to the place where people are hung, you will say the truth.” That means the torture room is still there. How else do you think reforms in the Nigeria Police Force should have been carried out? What I have to suggest might be difficult because it may involve some legislation to make it possible because there are already laws. The police should have a panel of enquiry that would be constituted by another body other than the police to sit over judgements and come out with findings that everybody would accept as being fair. So, in my mind, there should be an outside body that would participate in whatever they (police) are doing so that it will be clear to everyone that it is transparent. But there is even something that can be done without going down that route. What would happen if there were CCTV cameras installed in every interrogation room of the Nigeria Police, not just at the headquarters but also at the command and divisional levels, those places where suspects are brought and made to write statements? If there is one inspector-general of police who feels concerned about this state of affairs and is determined to clean up the force, he can do that in two ways: install the CCTV cameras and retrain the officers. Part of the retraining would include emphasising the essence and necessity of respecting the rights of the detainees and suspects. I once worked with a non-governmental organisation that handled certain training for police officers. I was a resource person and the course I took them on was on matters centred on fundamental human rights. But to my shock, one of the officers who partook in one of the training where I was a resource person – I ran into him in a police station – tortured a girl in my presence in a manner I never forgot. Oh, it was terrible! How was she tortured? It appeared the boyfriend of that girl was arrested in connection with armed robbery. The girl was arrested for being a girlfriend to somebody who was arrested for armed robbery and she was being interrogated. In that interrogation room, as the officer, who went through the training on human rights by the NGO, was questioning the girl, he took a plank – they usually call it ‘four-by-four’ with a sharp edge – and hit the girl on her knees and feet. If a cow is hit in that manner, I think its legs would be broken. The policeman freely lifted the wood and hit the girl with it, virtually destroying her legs. The girl cried and screamed in pain. Usually, women like to preserve their dignity but in her pain, she screamed and uttered words like, “I didn’t do anything; he only had sex with me!” It was something that broke my spirit. Why do you think the police have refused to do away with personnel who have a ‘killer mentality’ as you said? I think it works for them. There are two motives. They don’t want to grant you that liberty unless you part with money. There is the other one of torturing to avoid carrying out an investigation. For example, when a girl complains of being raped, what you would expect the police to do is to confirm first that such an incident occurred by, at least, questioning the person that made the complaint and sending the person to carry out some medical tests to establish the fact of rape before looking for who is responsible for it. But the way the police would operate is when you bring that complaint before they ascertain the authenticity of that complaint, they would go for an arrest. It is in the presence of that person that they would ask the complainant to tell them how the offence was committed and in turn tell the suspect to listen to provide answers. After that, they tell them to write their statements. It is like putting the cart before the horse. They ought to have surrounded the person (suspect) with inescapable facts about what they did, so once they pick the suspect, they would interrogate them based on the information they have, not that they are still searching for that information. But because they are lazy about this, they prefer to pick up a person first and torture the person to confess. What is your reaction to the clampdown on Nigerians who staged protests to mark the anniversary of June 12 last weekend? Before now, we had been speedily moving down the cliff to a police state. So, Nigeria has become a police state, even when they are aware there is freedom of assembly and freedom to protest. They are all part of democratic values and norms. There is also a judgement of the Supreme Court that no one needs a permit from the police to organise a public protest. If there is any need to inform the police, it is so that they can come out to protect the protesters to ensure that fifth columnists do not infiltrate their ranks and begin to cause a disturbance, not that you need the permission of the police to protest. This is well-known. Many of the senior police officers are lawyers; they know what the law says but they have no respect for the law. And because they know nothing would happen, they do whatever they like with impunity. The IGP was reported to have ordered policemen to shoot anyone unlawfully holding an AK-47 rifle while speaking on the sidelines of attacks on police formations in the South-East and South-South regions. He was quoted as saying, “Don’t mind the media shout; do the job I command you. If anyone accuses you of human rights violation, the report will come to my table and you know what I will do. So, take the battle to them wherever they are and kill them all. Don’t wait for an order. What is your reaction to this statement? It speaks for itself. It is an order to kill citizens indiscriminately. He is already commanding them to disregard human rights because there will be no such accusation if there is no violation. You get judgements from courts against the police for the violation of human rights. Who will enforce the judgements? You also need the police to enforce the judgements of courts. So, how do you begin to enforce the judgements against the police when the person that will escort the bailiff to serve the order of the court is a policeman? They know that even when you go to court to get an order directing the IGP or commissioner of police to respect your rights, nobody will serve that order. So, we have degenerated too far. I do not think we are even conscious of how bad things are and are making any effort to pull ourselves back from this brink. With your experience in handling cases involving human rights violation, how would you compare what the situation is now with what it was in the last six years? It was easy for the Israelites to forget their experience in Egypt. It was their sojourn in the wilderness that they remembered well and they thought Egypt was paradise for them. Forgive me if I do not easily remember instances of human rights violation in the past. The disregard for the judgements of courts has never happened on this scale before. Just as we have an IGP who has breathed life into the killer instinct in the police force, so also do we have a President who has ignored the cries of the people about what is happening. When he pays no attention to such things, what else will anybody do if not to move on? What is your take on the ban on the use of Twitter in Nigeria by the Federal Government? I would have loved to comment but that matter is before the court. So, it has become sub judice; I won’t say anything. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com