The Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu; and his deputy, Dr Obafemi Hamzat, joined family and friends on Monday at the one-year memorial service of Pastor Ibidunni Ighodalo. The event, which was held at the Trinity House Church, Lagos, had in attendance the wife of Ogun State Governor, Mrs Bamidele Abiodun; the Senior Pastor of the House on the Rock Church, Pastor Paul Adefarasin, among others. Sanwo-Olu, who described the Ibidunni as his ‘aburo,’ said the late mother of two lived for humanity. He said, “A few minutes ago when I was told that I was going to make a few comments, I searched my phone, people of God, I could still see the same text Ibidunni sent to me on May 17 last year where she asked for permission to run an isolation centre. It was during the COVID-19, we were all being ravaged and we didn’t have an answer to what the pandemic was turning out to be. But Ibidunni wanted to contribute her quota; she had the passion to help the weak and vulnerable in society. “I replied that I’ll get back to her after our one-year anniversary, which we could not celebrate because of the pandemic. Three days before she passed on, she still reminded me about the isolation centre discussion we had and I replied her that we will meet, but it is history now. With all the good intentions she had, God knows best. She is no longer with us; she has left this sinful world.” The Pastor of All Saints Church, Jericho, Ibadan, Ven. Dipo Ajomale, in his message, titled, ‘There is peace in the death of God’s faithful people,’ said God felt the pain of the people when the righteous dies. “Why will our death be precious in the sight of the Lord? This does not mean that death is something pleasant or desirable? Our God does not take the death of a righteous person likely, as he feels our pains and grieves. “We thank God for the happy memories and the meaningful life our sister lived. It was a life that cut across so many people. The question again is, how relevant are you in society? How relevant are you in whatever position God has placed you in? We take solace in the fact that sister Ibidunni died in Christ and we will rise with her in infinite glory on resurrection day,” Ajomale said. Ighodalo, while answering questions from journalists on the sidelines of the event, said life had not been the same for him since the death of his wife. “It has been extremely tough, it is like flying with one wing, walking with one leg, eating with one side of the mouth, thinking with one half of the brain, hearing with one ear. But God has been phenomenally faithful to me. “My wife did a wonderful job, she left me with two wonderful children. She had looked far ahead and she made sure she left me with peace and something to look forward to,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com