The military-backed government of Prime Minister Imran Khan is bringing a law to establish an omnibus body to monitor all media platforms in Pakistan, including and digital platforms, television and cinema, triggering protests that are slowly gathering momentum across the country. Media bodies of journalists and workers have been joined by lawyers’ bodies and human rights watchdogs to oppose the proposed Pakistan Media Development Authority Ordinance that will, in effect, form an institutional framework to the government to curb media freedom that is already under attack. The Pakistan Federal Union of Journalists, Human Rights Commission of Pakistan and Pakistan Bar Council have rejected the proposed Pakistan Media Development Authority Ordinance, 2021. “The proposed law is draconian in scope and devastating in its impact on the constitutional principles and guarantees for freedom of expression, media freedoms, and the right to information as well as the profession of journalism,” they said in a joint statement on May 29. The PFUJ is an umbrella organisation of all journalist unions, while the HRCP is apex human rights organisation and the PBC is the representative body of lawyers in the country. The development comes amidst several incidents of threats and coercion of journalists, some of whom have been abducted and detained for questioning and others have suffered physical attacks by “unknown persons” — the local term in Urdu is “namaloom afraad”, widely believed to be from various intelligence outfits.  Many have lost lives and little is one, while the government expresses shock and sets up inquiry. The sleuths who attack and their organisations remain unnamed. All the while, the political leadership of the day claims “complete media freedom.” Khan said that at a meeting in London and his words were repeated last week by his Information Minister, Fawad Chaudhary. Shooting the messenger has been attempted with varying outcomes by successive regimes in Pakistan, the Martial Law administrations in particular, at least since the Ayub Khan era requiring generations of media personnel to fight back, again with varying results. But each of these struggles has caused miseries to individuals and families of mostly middle class who are poorly paid, save the few marquee names. Each attempt has added to political uncertainty, even instability and at least in one case, of General Pervez Musharraf, has contributed majorly to his ouster from power. Dawn newspaper edition of May 30, 2021 called the proposed law “a declaration of war against journalists. It will, if enacted, erase all critical voices from print, electronic and digital platforms through a system of coercive censorship that will allow only a pliant media to survive. In other words, this naked attempt to control the narrative will eviscerate the very rationale for the Fourth Estate, which is to act as a check on excesses of power and function as a watchdog for the public interest.” In the most recent cases, “unidentified persons” attacked journalist Asad Ali Tur in front of his house and the police did not act even though CCTV footage of the attack was available. This triggered a protest meeting at which well-known TV presenter, Hamid Mir, spoke vehemently. The next thing that happened was that he was taken off air from his five days-a-week talk show on Geo TV. The management defended its action alleging that it had acted after Mir had made an objectionable speech. Writing in The Guardian London, Mir recalled that during his earlier protests a decade ago, he was supported by Mr Imran Khan who promised “complete freedom” if he came to power. Mir wrote: “Now, I have been taken off the air once again, but this time Khan is the prime minister. The ban came immediately after I spoke out at a protest for press freedom in Islamabad. Journalists, lawyers and civil society activists were there to show our solidarity with Asad Ali Toor, a journalist who was attacked last week inside his own home. Three men came in, tied him up, and beat him severely. The attackers, Toor said, identified themselves as being from the Inter-Services Intelligence agency.” The attack on Toor was the latest in a long series of assaults on journalists in the Pakistani capital. In April, my former colleague, Absar Alam, was shot while walking in a park. In July 2020, Matiullah Jan was abducted for several hours. The government claims that Islamabad is the safest city in the country, but as the media watchdog, Freedom Network Pakistan, recently reported, it has become the most dangerous city for the country’s journalists. Mir further said: “The pattern is depressingly predictable. It is always critical and independent-minded journalists who are targeted. The attacks come after a series of threats. After the attack, the victim is accused of faking the incident to seek publicity or political asylum. Despite the evidence, the attackers are never caught. Instead, the victims are called traitors and even made to face new charges.” The Khan Government last year faced serious political protests by opposition parties under the banner of Pakistan Democratic Movement, till the combine fell out earlier this year. One of the issues that caused the differences was over explicit naming of the all-powerful military, even the Army chief. Ousted Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif had done that from his London exile addressing large rallies via the video. Huna Yusuf, writing in Dawn (May 30, 2021) indicates that journalists could adopt a similar approach. “But we are at a tipping point. Senior journalists at protests last week indicated that it’s time to name the ‘known unknowns’ who harass and attack journalists. Let the press do what it does best, and hold them accountable.” Pakistan ranks 145 out of 180 countries on media rights watchdog, Reporters Without Borders’ 2021 World Press Freedom Index. “The Pakistani media, which have a long tradition of being very lively, have become a priority target for the country’s ‘deep state’, a euphemism for the military and Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), the main military intelligence agency, and the significant degree of control they exercise over the civilian executive,” says RSF of press freedom in Pakistan. Unless the government retracts the move, which seems unlikely, the protests could gather momentum and pose a serious problem for the government that is already bustling a distressed economy and a rampaging COVID-19 pandemic. Dr Noor is an activist journalist based in Karachi, Pakistan Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com