A 35-year-old housewife, Blessing Agoro, has been arrested by men of the Ogun State Police Command for allegedly selling her four- and two-year-old daughters. The suspect was arrested following a report lodged at the Redemption Camp Divisional Police Headquarters by her husband, Oluwaseyi Agoro. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this in a statement on Sunday. Oyeyemi said the husband reported that when he returned from a journey last Tuesday, he could not find his two daughters. The PPRO stated, “The man stated further that all efforts to make his wife tell him the whereabouts of the children proved abortive, hence his decision to report to the police. “Upon the report, the DPO, Redemption Camp Police Division, CSP Alabi Akinjide, detailed his detectives to apprehend the suspect, who had already been with the camp’s code of conduct department. “On interrogation, the suspect explained to the police that her husband left home for the past two years, and while he was away, she found it difficult to cater for the two children with the two other that she had for another man. “She stated further that while was contemplating on what to do, one Kolawole Imoleayo introduced her to a couple in Port Harcourt, who were in serious need of children, and she sold the two daughters to the couple at the rate of N300,000. “Her confession led to the arrest of the said intermediary, Kolawole Imoleayo. They are both assisting the police in their investigation.” The Commissioner of Police, Edward Ajogun, ordered the transfer of the suspects to the Anti-Human Trafficking and Child Labour Unit of the state Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for discreet investigation. Oyeyemi added that Ajogun had directed that the children must be rescued and brought back to their parents as soon as possible. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com