The All Progressives Grand Alliance has condemned the circulation of posters purporting that former Central Bank governor, Chukwuma Soludo, will be the running mate to former vice president, Atiku Abubakar, in the 2023 presidential election. The National Coordinator of APGA Media Warriors, Chinedu Obigwe, at a press conference in Awka, the Anambra State capital, on Monday, described the act as the handwork of desperate politicians. The posters titled, “The Great Alliance: PDP & APGA. Atiku /Soludo as President and Vice President 2023,” were displayed along the Wuse Area and the Airport Road in Abuja, the nation’s capital. The posters which appeared in two different designs with both Atiku and Soludo dressed in corporate and traditional attires claim that only the alliance could rescue Nigeria from the brink of collapse. But at a press conference on Monday in Awka, Obigwe described the development as wicked propaganda and blackmail. He said Soludo had a divine mission to serve the people of Anambra State, adding that no amount of wicked propaganda would stop what God had put in place. He said, “Desperate politicians that want to stop Soludo at all cost are wasting their time because he is on a divine mission. Soludo’s divine mission in Anambra State cannot be stopped. “We expect more politically motivated blackmail against Soludo from those that are seeing him as their nightmare. “The reality staring them and their sponsors in the face is that the coast is already clear for Soludo to emerge as APGA candidate on June 23rd and to also win the main election on November 6th. “The flooding of Abuja with Atiku and Soludo campaign posters is the handiwork of mischief-makers. “The general public should disregard the antics of those that already know that Soludo is unstoppable but decided to be wasting their time. “They want to use the childish blackmail strategy to pit him against APGA faithful and by extension the presidency. “It’s a well-known fact to Nigerians that Soludo severed his ties with PDP in 2013 and joined APGA. From that time to date, he has remained a committed member of APGA that is living up to the expectation of the party faithful. “Soludo did not tell anybody that he is interested to run for the office of vice president with Atiku and he has no intention of leaving APGA.”