The news of the demise of a popular Nigerian pastor, Temitope Balogun Joshua, fondly called TB Joshua, has placed a lot of his followers in a gloomy mood. Announcing the death on the late Pastor’s verified Instagram page, the handler stated, “Surely the Sovereign LORD does nothing without revealing his plan to his servants the prophets.” – Amos 3:7. On Saturday 5th June 2021, Prophet TB Joshua spoke during the Emmanuel TV Partners Meeting: “Time for everything – time to come here for prayer and time to return home after the service. “God has taken His servant, Prophet TB Joshua, home – as it should be by divine will. His last moments on earth were spent in the service of God. This is what he was born for, lived for and died for. As Prophet TB Joshua says, ‘The greatest way to use life is to spend it on something that will outlive it’. “Prophet TB Joshua leaves a legacy of service and sacrifice to God’s Kingdom that is living for generations yet unborn. The Synagogue Church of All Nations and Emmanuel TV Family appreciate your love, prayers and concern at this time and request a time of privacy for the family. Here are Prophet TB Joshua’s last words: ‘Watch and pray’. One life for Christ is all we have; one life for Christ is so dear.” Reacting to the news of his death, some Nigerian celebrities have taken to social media to mourn the cleric. Receiving the news, apparently with shock, delectable screen diva, Tonto Dikeh, hoped the clergyman was really not dead. She wrote on her Instagram, “Am gonna wake up tomorrow and hear that my father lives right?? Right??? PAPA PAPA WHERE ARE YOU? I will call you in the morning please pick up Daddy!!” She further took to the late Pastor’s verified Instagram page to drop her condolence message under the picture that was posted to announce his death. Dikeh wrote, “Rest Well Papa, you left warriors who would carry out the assignment… We love you and what God cannot do does not exist… we still know you can wake up PAPA.” Ace actress, Eniola Badmus, while dropping a condolence message simply wrote, “Rest on Papa.” More so, popular Nigerian beat maker, Samklef while mourning the cleric, took to his verified Instagram page and posted a picture of T.B Joshua. He captioned it, “RIP TB Joshua”. Also, popular social media influencer, JJ Omojuwa, took to his Twitter account to eulogise the cleric. Omojuwa noted that the death of TB Joshua was a ‘big loss to Nigeria’. He tweeted, “TB Joshua is a big loss to Nigeria and the Ikotun end of Lagos, especially. His church is one of the major points of tourist attractions to Nigeria and I can’t begin to imagine the impact of his death on business, people and the less privileged in that area. May he Rest in Peace.”