The Lagos State Police Command has released the father of 21-year-old student of the University of Lagos, who allegedly stabbed the Chief Executive Officer of Super TV, Usifo Ataga, to death. The Commissioner of Police in the state, Hakeem Odumosu, told The PUNCH that the suspect’s father and one Nkechi Mogbo, have been released on bail. The PUNCH learnt that Chidinma Ojukwu’s father was arrested for hindering his daughter’s arrest at their residence in the Alagomeji area of the state. Until Chidinma’s arrest, Mogbo had been in police custody after investigation showed that she operated the service apartment where the University of Lagos undergraduate allegedly killed Ataga. The suspect, while being paraded at the command headquarters in Ikeja on Thursday, confessed to have committed the crime. Speaking with The PUNCH on Friday, Odumosu said though investigation was ongoing, an order had been given for Mogbo’s release on bail, adding that Chidinma’s father had also been released. He stated that Chidinma’s account of how she perpetrated the crime exonerated her father and Mogbo. Odumosu said, “Chidinma’s statement exonerated her father as she said that he was not aware of the incident. We released him. Also, the lady in our custody, one Mrs Nkechi Mogbo, who leased the flat from the property owner and used it for a service apartment, has been released on bail. “After Magbo was arrested, she assisted the police because of the information she gave us. Now that we got the principal suspect, and the fact that the principal suspect confessed that she singularly committed the act, and equally went further to explain that she never met Nkechi Mogbo, but that she only phoned her and that they transacted all the business online, I have ordered her release on bail while we continue our investigation. “However, if any other thing during the investigation points to her, bail is not the end of the case and we will bring her back.” The PUNCH gathered that Magbo returned to Nigeria after studying abroad. When she returned, she started the business of property letting, among other businesses. When The PUNCH visited Chidinma’s residence on Friday, her father was nowhere to be found. Efforts to speak with neighbours and residents in the area were also abortive.