THE Peoples Democratic Party has named the Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, as chairman of its Electronic Registration Committee. National Chairman of the PDP, Uche Secondus who performed the inauguration ceremony, at the party’s National Secretariat, on Wednesday, said, the party being the largest political party on the African continent was desirous of moving with the times. According to him, the PDP was in touch with technological advancement and was desirous of remaining up to date hence the need to digitize its database. Secondus further explained that the e- registration project which has been on the drawing board since 2010, was dear to the heart of the party. He said, “Reports we get across the country show that many more Nigerians want to belong to this party and this program will provide them such opportunities. “When we say that PDP is the largest party in the continent, we are not grandstanding but stating the obvious. There is no nook or cranny of this country that you won’t find PDP members. “In the 2019 general election, the PDP was the only political party that fielded candidates for all the positions: Presidency, Governorship, Senate and House of Representatives  and in all the 36 states Houses of Assembly. “Even in states where we are not in power, our members still outnumber the ruling party in such states. “We are the only party since inception in 1998, that has been consistent in name, motto, manifestos and logo.” He expressed the confidence in the ability of the members of the committee to deliver on their mandate. “Membership registration into our party is a continuous program, what we are embarking on is to digitize  it for proper analysis of issues.” Chairman of the PDP e-registration committee, who is also the Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, while speaking on behalf of other members, promised to do a thorough job. He said, “It is very worthy that our party, being a big party, has decided to digitalize membership and position the party to take over in 2023.” Members of the committee include: the National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, Agbi Emmanuel, Prof. Wale Oladipo, Sani Kutigi, CID Maduabum and Hon. Austin Opara. The National Organising Secretary of the party, Col. Austin Akobundu (retd) is to serve as committee Secretary. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com