Troops of Operation Hadin Kai have killed no fewer than six suspected members of the Islamic State in West Africa Province and injured many others. The ISWAP terrorists were said to have attempted to infiltrate Dikwa town, Borno State on Tuesday. The suspected terrorists reportedly came with five gun trucks, motorcycles, and others on foot. Items recovered during the encounter include one gun truck, eight AK 47 rifles, 40 rounds of 7.62mm special, 39 special ammo, three motorcycles and six magazines. This was contained in a statement by the Director of Army Public Relations, Mohammed Yerima, on Wednesday. The statement titled, ‘Troops neutralise ISWAP terrorists in Dikwa, capture gun truck, arms, ammunition’, read, “The terrorist elements mounted on 5 Gun Trucks, some on motorcycles and other foot soldiers tried to infiltrate the town through Gajibo axis but were met with superior fire power by troops in conjunction with air bombardment by Air Task Force. “The marauding terrorists were thoroughly vanquished forcing them to withdraw in high state of confusion abandoning their truck, guns and ammunition. “During the encounter, six members of the terrorist groups were neutralised, several others were severely injured while the survivors withdrew in total disarray leaving behind their dead colleagues. “Items recovered during the encounter include 1 Gun Truck, 8 Ak 47 rifles, 40 rounds of 7.62mm Special, 39 special ammo, 3 motorcycles and 6 magazines. “To mop up the area, troops conducted exploitation in the early hours of today in conjunction with Civilian Joint Task Force and Hunters along the terrorists’ withdrawal routes and recovered 90 rounds of 7.62 mm x 54 on links belonging to the fleeing terrorists. “Sadly however, three soldiers sustained various degrees of injuries but are in stable condition as they are receiving treatment at the field ambulance in Dikwa. “The Chief of Army Staff, Major General Faruk Yahaya, has extended his commendation to the gallant troops over the feat and charge them to remain resolute and steadfast. He added that the tempo must be maintained to ensure total obliteration of terrorist groups within the North East region.”