Transit Support Services Limited has introduced the Asiastar luxury bus models to its range of commercial vehicle production. TSS is a multi-franchise holder and assembler of heavy, medium and light, duty trucks and minibus company in Nigeria. The new product brand and models were unveiled in November 2020, at the Ikeja Sheraton Hotels. A statement signed by its Public Relations/Media Consultant, Iyere Ikhide, said the 53-passenger seater was suitable for commercial passenger transport, football club and sports teams’ transportation with government executive shuttle services. He added that the vehicle had advanced the concept of body design and architecture. He said the vehicle was equipped with adjustable soft passenger seats with USB charger, LCD TV (front, middle), DVD, and a modern ambient lighting design on the roof. The U-beam body structure of the Asiastar luxury bus has length, width and height of 12000, 2550 and 3860 (mm) respectively. It is equipped with WP10.336N/WD615 engine models, fast 6DS (Benz GO230-6 as optional) gearbox, a pneumatic double circuit air brake system, and air suspension shock absorbers, the statement said. It also comes with a unique set of headlamps which are divided into two parts, with full LED lighting making the front view elegant and beautiful. The General Manager, Mr Dave Chukwudulue, said, “TSS Motors is known for her state of the art, top of the line products which conform to the latest design trends in the automobile industry. “As with our other products, our key selling points for the Asiastar luxury coaches are effective and efficient after-sales service and parts support backup, cost-effective, durable, robust, rugged, comfortable and smooth luxury ride, all through the distance and operational life of the vehicle.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com