The President of the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria, Dr Bayo Olugbemi, has urged the University of Ibadan to engage its members who possess Associate of the Chartered Institute of Bankers qualification to teach some courses in the university. Olugbemi said this when he led officials of the institute to visit the acting Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Babatunde Ekanola, in Ibadan. He said, “We want UI to engage ACIB holders as academics in relevant departments in the university.” The CIBN president also said the institute wanted to collaborate with the university so that its students who qualified as MSc holders could qualify as ACIB at the same time He said some universities had started doing this and wanted the products of the university to also benefit from this. Olugbemi stated that there should be a collaboration between educational institutions, the government and the industry to improve the quality of education and character of personnel trained to operate in the country’s banking industry. The CIBN President said the aim of the Institute was for everybody working in banks to qualify as ACIB which he said would also boost their efficiency and productivity. The vice-chancellor while reacting said there were lots of ways the university and the institute could partner. He tasked the CIBN  and other professional bodies to look into ways to address ethical issues among some bankers and bank officials in the country. The VC said, “The financial industry has important roles to play in curbing corruption. There is no problem with technical competence but the problem that must be tackled is ethical issues. “These are the things we need to pay close attention to and see how to address them. We should look at how we can work together further strengthen your industry and by extension the national economy. “For universities to be productive and efficient in the production of worthy personnel for the industry and other sectors of the economy, we need to work together.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com