The Ekiti State Government has ordered the state Commissioner of Police, Tunde Mobayo, to begin the probe of all persons connected with the alleged rape by a medical doctor, Dr Samuel Omotoso, of a 14-year-old girl in Ado Ekiti, the state capital. The Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr Olawale Fapohunda, said those who would be investigated alongside Omotoso were the doctor’s wife and pastor of his church; the girl’s brother and mother; male friends who allegedly kept late nights in a beer parlour; and the beer parlor management, among others. Omotoso, a former Ekiti State House of Assembly member, is under investigation for the alleged rape of the teenager, who alleged that the medical practitioner had been violating her since 11, when she was living in his house. Fapohunda, who spoke in Ado Ekiti on Tuesday in a lecture during the 2021 Day of the African Child, also expressed worry over “the increasing number of teachers who are now being investigated for the rape of their students.” “It is disgraceful that even in the face of allegations of teacher-student rape, teachers, as a union, have maintained an undignified silence in this matter. The see-no-evil, hear-no-evil attitude has regrettably become the watchword. “The Ministry of Justice is at present considering a law that compels heads of secondary and primary schools to compulsorily report cases of rape in schools with appropriate sanctions for non-reporting,” he added. Speaking on government’s effort on the 14-year-old girl, Fapohunda said, “The Ministry of Justice has obtained a protection order on behalf of the 14-year-old. She will be in the custody of the state until such a time when the matter is brought to court.” He dismissed insinuations that the medical doctor was being persecuted for his political belief. The attorney general said, “The facts of this case are that a 14-year-old student of Christ Girls School, Ado-Ekiti made an allegation of rape against a medical doctor and former parliamentarian in this state, who was her guardian. “She alleged that she had been a victim of rape since she was 11 years old in her written statement, she stated that she had complained severally to her mother who did not believe her and she had attempted to run away from her guardian several times. “The doctor is innocent until and if he has his day in court. Therefore, it must be stated clearly that the allegation made against him by the 14-year-old girl is simply that. It is an allegation that is currently subject to police investigation. “However, the several public statements issued by the medical doctor and his wife as published by his social media trolls, have opened an investigation into possible violations of several provisions of our Child’s Rights Law, the Criminal Code Law, as well as the GBV (Prohibition) Law. “In particular, the medical doctor alleged that this 14-year-old girl under his watch is a ‘child philanderer.’ He also stated that the pastor of his church, the mother of the girl, and the girl’s brother could testify to the alleged amatory conduct of the girl. “It is solely based on these verified public statements by the medical doctor and his wife that I have today (Tuesday) advised the Ekiti State Commissioner for Police to conduct further investigations into the conduct of several persons connected to this matter to enable the Director of Public Prosecutions to decide whether to proffer appropriate charges.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com