FOLLOWING renewed hostilities in Effium community, Ohaukwu Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, Governor David Umahi, has revoked the bail earlier granted his appointees and other stakeholders in the area. Recall that there were intra-communal clashes in the Effium community, which led to the killing of many persons and destruction of property worth millions of naira. Umahi had ordered for the arrest of his aides and major stakeholders during the peak of the violence in the area. They were arrested for allegedly paying lip service to efforts at ensuring that peace returned there. The PUNCH had reported that the stakeholders were released on the promise that no crisis would ever erupt in the area again. But Umahi, in a statement, signed by the Commissioner for Information and Orientation in the state, Uchenna Orji, revoked their earlier bail and ordered for their arrest. He accused them of undermining efforts at stopping the killing of innocent people in the community. The statement read in part, “Governor Umahi has directed that the bail granted to the stakeholders of Effium/ Ezza Effium be revoked since all the efforts of the government to stop the killings of innocent people in that community are being undermined. “The governor, therefore, directs the Commissioner of Police to immediately proceed to arrest, detain and prosecute all those under bail from Effium/Ezza Effium community. “Effium/ Ezza Effium people are one people and the government is not heeding to the idea of separating them as they are one people who have lived together in peace for donkey years. The government will continue to sue for peace and co-existence between these two brothers. “The governor warns that all text messages aimed at instigating crisis are being followed up and monitored and culprits must face the long arms of the law. The government is already trailing a number of such text messages that are trying to escalate the crisis. The public is advised to allow peace to reign in these communities.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com