Popular reality television show star, Kim Kardashian, has taken to social media to celebrate her estranged husband, Kanye West, on the occasion of his birthday. Kardashian, via her verified Instagram account, posted a picture of herself with Kanye and their children. She took to the caption section of the post and wrote, “Happy Birthday. Love U for Life!” The pair had gotten married in May 2014 in an extravagant ceremony held in Italy. However, in February this year, Kardashian filed for divorce from West after six and half years of marriage. She cited irreconcilable differences as the reason for their breakup, adding that she was seeking joint custody of the children. Her court filing, which did not indicate a separation date, stated that the couple had a prenuptial agreement that would determine how their assets will be divided. Though their union was the first for West, it was the third for Kardashian. While the union was not long, it outlasted the predictions of many cynics who thought doom was inevitable, given the two oversized personalities — West’s well-known volatility and the fact that Kardashian’s previous marriage to former NBA player, Kris Humphries, was fleetingly brief. Kardashian first got married in 2000 to music producer, Damon Thomas, at the age of 19. The union lasted until 2004. In 2011, she married Humphries in a heavily hyped wedding that was televised in a two-part special on the reality tv show, ‘Keeping Up With the Kardashians’. She filed for divorce less than three months later, though was still legally married in 2012 when she and West became a couple, and she became pregnant. Kardashian, in the penultimate episode of ‘Keeping Up With the Kardashians’, broke down in tears, stating that she feels like a failure and loser due to the collapse of her third marriage with West. “I feel like a failure, that it’s a third (expletive) marriage,” Kim says. “Yeah, I feel like a loser, but I can’t even think about that. I want to be happy.” However, she praises her now-estranged husband, describing him as “an amazing dad” and hopes he finds a partner who could more easily cater to his desires.