Systemic transmission and distribution problems are preventing the supply of about 3,599 megawatts of electricity generated by eight power plants under the management of the Niger Delta Power Holding Company. Also, latest industry data obtained in Abuja on Wednesday showed that power generation on the grid dropped from a peak of 4,520.50MW on June 14 to a low of 3,874MW on June 15, shedding 646.5MW. Speaking during a courtesy call on the Minister of Water Resources, Adamu Suleiman, in Abuja, the Managing Director, NDPHC, Chiedu Ugbo, said power plants under the management of his firm had 4,099MW of electricity. He, however, stated that a very large percentage of this quantum of electricity was not taken by operators in the value chain due to transmission and distribution bottlenecks. He said, “We have 4,099MW but not all are taken in the grid due to systemic problems. “If you check today, we have 500 – 700MW on the grid. That is not to say our machines are bad; it is because of transmission and distribution challenges.” Ugbo stated that the NDPHC had to also invest in transmission and distribution to help in the evacuation and distribution of electricity. He said, “In those areas too, NDPHC has done significant work. We pride ourselves as having invested about 50 per cent of the transmission assets in the country. “We have invested heavily in transmission and distribution assets all over the country, in every state.” On the visit to the water ministry, the NDPHC boss said it was to seek the ministry’s as his company works towards developing small and medium hydro projects across the country. He explained that the NDPHC was looking at setting up small hydro plants on existing dams in Nigeria, especially those in the northern part of the country. He explained that most irrigation projects required a lot of water but could not operate without electricity, and urged the NDPHC to support the projects by installing solar power plants in them. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com