Men of the Ogun State Police Command have arrested two suspected robbers after they had an accident with a stolen vehicle in Ondo State. The third suspect died in the accident, while the gang was escaping with the stolen car. The Police Public Relations Officer in Ogun State, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this on Wednesday. Oyeyemi said the incident happened on Sunday when the suspected robbers were involved in a crash. According to the PPRO, the robbers had an accident while escaping with the Toyota Camry car, which they snatched at gunpoint somewhere in Ondo State. He said, “The suspects were coming from Ondo State and heading towards Lagos, but on getting to a point at Ode-Remo, due to dangerous driving, the vehicle hit a culvert and somersaulted. “The three occupants sustained varying degrees of injury and they were rushed to hospital by policemen from the Ode-Remo Divisional Headquarters. “While in hospital, the DPO, Ode-Remo Division, CSP Fasogbon Olayemi, received information that the vehicle in question was snatched at gunpoint by the victims of the accident. “Having received the information, the DPO quickly ordered that they should be placed under arrest right in the hospital. “The owner of the vehicle, who came all the way from Ondo State, explained that he was accosted on the road by a gang of five men dressed like policemen, and that he was dragged out of the car at gunpoint and the vehicle was taken away. “One of the suspects, identified as Emeka John, later died while receiving treatment. “The remaining two, Sunday Emmanuel and Idris Ibrahim, were ordered to be transferred to the state Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department by the Commissioner of Police, Edward Ajogun, for onward transfer to the Ondo State Command, where they will be prosecuted.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com