In this interview with KAYODE OYERO, the President of the Students’ Union Government of the Olusegun Agagu University of Science and Technology, Okitipupa, Ondo State, Damilola Okunomo, talks about students’ ordeals in the hands of hoodlums who carry out raids on students’ hostels at random Of late, there have been reports of insecurity around the university communities. What exactly is the situation? I will like to start with the genesis of the matter. The school, which was established in 2009, has an uncompleted hostel project started by the Niger Delta Development Commission and the Ondo State Oil Producing Area Development Commission. The project has been abandoned for about nine years now and it is getting weak. The structure, when completed, has the capacity to accommodate over 2,000 students. There are over 5,000 students on campus and because of lack of hostel accommodation on campus, we all rent apartments from private home owners or landlords in Ayeka and Igodan villages, both in the Okitipupa Local Government Area. Before 2021, we have recorded a series of robberies and attacks but the frequency of the attacks increased this year. For some time now, students can no longer sleep with their two eyes closed because of the high level of insecurity and threat to lives and propertry around campus. Many times, the hoodlums, who are also indigenes of the host communities, ‘tax’ us. We will be walking on the streets and the miscreants will encircle us and demand N50 or N100 probably for food or Indian Hemp. They assault the male students among us who refuse to part with their money and molest our female colleagues. These happen outside the campus, in Ayeka and Igodan villages both in Okitipupa. Aside the daylight assault, we find it difficult to sleep with our two eyes closed because our hostels are being burgled at night. It is either they break the burglar-proof, or the ceiling. They burgle our hostels, rape female students and cart away our phones, shoes, clothes and other valuables. Just very recently, at Adejola Hostel, they came in through the ceiling and attempted to rape a female student but they ran away when the lady shouted. There are other confirmed cases of rape that I cannot disclose the identities of the victims. There was also a recent case of a male student who was brutally attacked and we had to rush him to the Trauma Centre in the University of Medical Sciences, Ondo. I and my colleagues had contributed N500,000 to save his life. How did you raise the money? We dropped an account on our WhatsApp groups and many students contributed to save the young man’s life. He is getting better now. There is no leash to the attacks on students; we are being robbed even at gunpoint. At night, we hear gunshots within the hostel areas and no one can come out. Has any student been kidnapped or killed by these hoodlums? No student has been killed or kidnapped by the hoodlums and we pray it doesn’t get to that. Is there no police station in the area? There is a police post in Okitipupa but whenever we call, the police officers keep complaining that they don’t have a patrol van; they claim their vans were destroyed during the #EndSARS protests last October. Though they are 100 per cent aware of all the cases of robbery, rape, and incessant attacks on students within the host communities, nothing has been done to curb theses horrific acts. Also, the Amotekun Corps is aware of our predicament but they have not done anything to help us. Is the school management also aware? The management is aware. There is no way such despicable and condemnable acts would be happening and I won’t inform the management. We have also been having meetings with the community leaders in Ayeka and Igodan villages, both in Okitipupa, to provide adequate security for our students because we are the live wire of the communities. Since the establishment of the school in 2009, the economy of the communities has been boosted. It won’t be a thing of joy if this school is moved away or probably shut down. Definitely, the glory of this community will be dead that way. So, we have been calling on the traditional rulers here and they have promised us that we would see changes in terms of security. Have you experienced any change? As for Igodan, we have seen a little change. These hoodlums who rob and rape us come with charms and whenever they come to our residential apartments, we sleep as if we have not slept before in our lives. The leaders here in Igodan have performed traditional rites and they promised us that the hoodlums would be caught and truly, this has been happening.  There is also restricted movement in Igodan; there is no movement from 11pm to 06:30am. These are some of the measures put in place by the community leaders. However, in Ayeka, we have not seen any change; nothing has been done to curb the criminality in the area. What do you want the government to do? We want OSOPADEC and the NDDC to complete the abandoned hostel project on campus. We need accommodation on campus because if we stay on campus, we won’t be facing what we are facing right now and even if we would be facing it, it won’t be at this level. More so, the landlords in the host communities see it as an advantage because the school does not have a hostel facility and they are not doing enough to protect us. We also want patrols and vigilantes in the students’ residential areas within the university communities. The management of the school has shut down the school. Do you think this is the way forward? We asked for a two-week break in order for the government to proffer a solution to the security challenges and we are optimistic that the solution will be proffered. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com