The Nigeria film industry has evolved tremendously since the days of moving theatres ― pioneered by the likes of Hubert Ogunde and Ojo Ladipo ― to the celluloid, cassette, cinemas, and recently, the emergence of streaming services. Despite the changes in the mode in which films are delivered to their audiences, there are some movies that would always remain evergreen in the Nigerian film industry. The PUNCH highlights some classic movies that would definitely take you down memory lane: Diamond Ring Year of release: 1998 Producer: Tade Ogidan Cast: Bukky Ajayi, Bimbo Akintola, Liz Benson, Richard Mofe-Damijo, Tunji Bamishigbin. Duration: 1hour, 36 minutes Synopsis: Diamond Ring follows the story of a conflict between the spirit of Mrs Gladys and members of Chidi’s cult group, XG. In a bid to display his fitness for a life in the secret cult, Chidi ― a freshman in the university and the only child of his parents, Chief and Mrs Ijeoma Dike ― steals a diamond ring from Mrs Gladys’ corpse. The spirit of Mrs Gladys in turn haunts Chidi and his friends. The members of the cult begin to die successively. Chidi is struck by a peculiar sickness, which could not be treated by orthodox medicine. The journey to find his healing culminates in the return of the Diamond Ring to Mrs Gladys’ corpse. Ti Oluwa Ni Ile Year of release: 1993 Producer: Tunji Kelani Cast: Kareem Adepoju, Dele Odule, Oyin Adejobi, Jide Oyegunle, Yemi Shodimu Duration: 1hour, 33 minutes Synopsis: Ti Oluwa Nile, which in English means God Owns The Land, tells the story of the character of Baba Wande (Kareem Adepoju) who plays the role of a rascal who bends and breaks the rules and conventions of propriety. The movie, which is in several parts, tells the story of a rich man from Lagos who ventures to Apatira ― a semi-rural community ― to buy a piece of land to build a fuelling station. He falls into the hands of two tricksters who conspire with Baba Wande and Chief Otun to sell the land belonging to a deity at a huge amount. The community condemns the sacrilege but the outcry falls on deaf ears. The community takes the matter to the King (Dele Odule) who is quite educated. He takes the matter to court and Baba Wande gives a false testimony in court that the land belongs to a certain ancestor. He and his conspirators won. However, Baba Wande’s travails follow after the taboo has been committed. Aki Na Ukwa Year of release: 2002 Producer: Chukwuka Emelionwu Cast: Osita Iheme, Chinedu Ikedieze, Amaechi, Muonagor Duration: 2 hours, 8 minutes Synopsis: Aki na Ukwa is a comedy film directed by Amayo Uzo Philips. The film launched the acting careers of its two stars ― Osita Iheme and Chinedu Ikedieze ― and this film marked their maiden collaboration. The movie tells the tale of two brothers who cause complete chaos at their home, in their school and basically in their whole village. The film was critically acclaimed opening to positive reviews and the film has been regarded as one of the finest ever films in Nigerian cinema, mainly for the introduction of Osita Iheme and Chinedu Ikedieze in the lead roles, playing the so-called characters of Paw paw and Aki, respectively. The duo rose to stardom and became overnight sensations in Nigeria for their performance in the film since its release. Since then, the duo has starred together in several films in lead roles. Chukwuka Emelionwu, who was the producer of the film, was credited for creating brand characters “Aki” and “PawPaw”. Silent Night Year of release: 1996 Director: Chico Ejiro Cast: Segun Arinze, Peter Bunor, Kate Henshaw, Ramsey Nouah, Joke Silva Duration: 1 hour, 35 minutes Synopsis: This movie tells the tale of a good boy gone bad. Stanley (played by Ramsey Nouah) is a student from a well-to-do family, but unfortunately, he seeks approval and excitement by participating in criminal activity with a gang of armed robbers. Stanley eventually commits a crime that lands him in court. However, the plot twist is that his father is the judge and justice must be served. Owo Blow Year of release: 1995 Director: Tade Ogidan Cast: Sam Loco Efe, Lanre Hassan, Bimbo Akintola, Femi Adebayo, Rachel Oniga, Binta Ayo Mogaji, Adewale Esho, Kayode Odumosu, Prince Leke Ajao Duration: 1 hour, 20 minutes Synopsis:  The movie shows the life of a breadwinner whom the State Task Force unjustly imprisoned after he intervened in the harsh treatment of traders during a raid in a market, which caused the death of several people. Due to this, the man’s son, Wole, was kicked out of school, as he could not pay the fees. Wole tried his best to fend for the family but all to no avail. Desperation drove him to become a purse-snatcher; although he was caught several times, he soon rose in ranks in the underworld to become the leader of a robbery gang alongside one of his classmates. He, however, made a pact with his members never to kill anyone whenever they go to rob. Meanwhile, as a grown man, Wole dumped his robbery job and went back to school. He later became a wealthy philanthropist loved by many, got married but his former gang members continued to live as criminals. As much as Wole made efforts to live a better life, he remained plagued by his past deeds and found himself in a difficult situation, having to pay for his past sins.