Akwa Ibom State Command of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency said it has arrested 244 suspects, made up of 214 males and 30 females, and seized over 600kg of assorted drugs between July 2020 and June 2021 in the state. The State Commander of the Agency, Mrs. Obot Bassey, who disclosed this at a media briefing to mark the International Day against Drug Abuse and Illicit Trafficking 2021 in Uyo on Monday said the command also secured 21 convictions within the period under review She said apart from the 21 convictions secured, 23 cases were still pending and undergoing prosecution at different stages in courts. The drugs seized, according to the commander, include Cannabis Sativa, Cocaine, Heroin and Psychotropic substances. He said efforts must be prioritised to sensitise and create awareness on the devastating consequences of drug abuse and Illicit trafficking on youths and society. “The data for the year under review shows that there is an increase in the number of seizures recorded as compared to 562kg of drug seized between July 2019 and June 2020,” she said. She called on youths to desist from using drug, stressing that the consequences of drug abuse could be devastating and damaging to the body organs, adding that impacts of illicit trafficking were severe and could lead to systemic crimes and violence in the society. “The consequences of drug abuse comes in various ways. They may be in the form of physical consequences such as health challenges, organ damage or failures, injuries due to accidents, mental challenges due to depression and other psychological dysfunctions. “The impacts of illicit trafficking are severe. It may lead to systemic crime and violence becoming endemic in affected countries. Traffickers may also attempt to corrupt public officials to protect them from the law, ” Obot said. The commander appealed to all Akwa Ibom people to stay away from drugs to derive the optimal health, safety and security for sustained growth of socio-economic development and general wellbeing. She commended the Governor Udom Emmanuel of Akwa Ibom for the donation of a brand new Hilux Vehicle to support the agency.