This year’s World Environment Day, celebrated every June 5, has as theme “Reimagine. Recreate. Restore.” The drive is to innovate sustainable ways to save our ecosystem from collapse; and to do all in our power to restore its fast-fading integrity. For too long, we have been exploiting and destroying our planet’s ecosystems. According to the United Nations Environment Programme, every three seconds, the world loses enough forest to cover a football pitch and over the last century, we have destroyed half of our wetlands.
It is instructive to note that WED 2021 will kick off the UN Decade on Ecosystem Restoration (2021-2030), a global mission to revive billions of hectares, from forests to farmlands, from the top of mountains to the depth of the sea.
Ecosystem loss is depriving the world of carbon sinks, like forests and peatlands, at a time humanity can least afford it. As much as 50 per cent of our coral reefs have already been lost and up to 90 per cent of coral reefs could be lost by 2050, even if global warming is limited to an increase of 1.5 degree Celsius. Alarmingly, global greenhouse gas emissions have grown for three consecutive years and the planet is heading towards potentially catastrophic climate change.
The emergence of COVID-19 has also shown just how disastrous the consequences of ecosystem loss can be. By shrinking the area of natural habitat for animals, we have created ideal conditions for pathogens – including coronaviruses – to spread. Ecosystem restoration means preventing, halting and reversing this damage; so that we can go from exploiting nature to healing nature. Only with healthy ecosystems can we enhance people’s livelihoods, counteract climate change and stop the collapse of biodiversity.
In Nigeria, the occasion was prominently headlined with WED commemoration organised by the Central Bank of Nigeria. At the tree-planting event in Abuja, the CBN governor, Godwin Emefiele, announced that the apex bank would henceforth enforce green banking. To be specific, he said that Nigerian banks shall begin considering sustainable banking principles when lending money to individuals and corporate entities.
Emefiele said that the Nigerian banking sector was committed to protecting the environment by making sure that the principles of sustainable banking are put in place when banks consider those they offer credit. Citing examples of institutions that refuse to grant credit to customers whose activities pollute the environment, Emefiele enjoined Nigerians to strive to make the environment green by restoring the ecosystem and avoiding pollutants that destroy the earth.
“There is the need for the environment to go green. We must join the global community to ensure that we clean the environment and rid the ecosystem of pollutants that are harmful to us,” he said.
Nevertheless, the CBN governor’s words sounded a bit hollow to me, because Nigerian banks are no strangers to sustainable banking principles, otherwise known as green banking. The initiative had already been instituted in Nigeria as a matter of policy since 2012. The problem is implementation. Therefore, it is either the CBN is not courageous enough to put its money where its mouth is, or that Nigerian banks have jettisoned what they initially pretended to have accepted.
Sustainable Banking Principles are guidelines for managing environmental and social risks, footprint, and governance, as well as improving human rights, women’s empowerment, financial inclusion, capacity building, collaborative partnerships, and reporting in the financial services sector. They were adopted by banks, discount houses, and development finance institutions in 2012, with the Nigerian Bankers’ Committee’s approval to further positive social impacts and protect the surrounding community and environment.
The Nigerian Sustainable Banking Principles cover nine principles: Environmental and Social Risk Management; Environmental and Social Footprint; Human Rights; Women’s Economic Empowerment; Financial Inclusion; Environmental and Social Governance; Capacity Building; Collaborative Partnerships; Reporting. The idea is that this would eventually lead to establishment of green banks in Nigeria.
In our bid to fight climate change, we cannot afford not to include green finance in the mix, recognising that every dynamic in society revolves around naira and kobo. The developed world is actively doing this; and we should follow suit. After all, it is the developing world that is potentially more susceptible to the most damaging impacts of global warming and climate change.
But the sad situation is that, because our apex financial institution is still pussyfooting the idea, we are still very far away from going green, in the fiscal sense of the term. The developed world has accepted green banking as part of their economic superstructure. For instance, the United States of America already has its own platform bringing these green banks together to impact their financial ecosystem. The American Green Bank Consortium is operated under the umbrella of the Coalition for Green Capital.
The CGC mission is to drive greater clean energy investment into existing and new markets, in the US and in developing countries with the goal of creating a 100% clean energy platform. The CGC incubates local clean energy finance organisations – that is, Green Banks – and structures public, private and mission-driven capital for investment through those organisations. A large network of local clean energy finance organisations can access hard-to-reach projects, expand clean energy equity, and provide a scalable model for a thriving network for clean energy investment.
Sometimes referred to as green investment bank, clean energy finance authority, or clean energy finance corporation, a Green Bank is a financial institution (typically public or quasi-public) that uses innovative financing techniques and market development tools in partnership with the private sector to accelerate deployment of clean energy technologies. Green banks use public funds to leverage private investment in clean energy technologies that, despite being commercially viable, have struggled to establish a widespread presence in consumer markets. They seek to reduce energy costs for ratepayers, stimulate private sector investment and economic activity, and expedite the transition to a low-carbon economy.
In the US, green banks have been created at the state and local levels. The United Kingdom, Australia, Japan, New Zealand and Malaysia have all created national banks dedicated to leveraging private investment in clean energy technologies. Together, green banks around the world have driven approximately $30 billion of clean energy investment. Nigeria is a regional giant, and so the CBN must take the bull by the horns and dive in.
In 2012 when sustainable banking policy was adopted in Nigeria, I recall that two of our commercial banks went through the motion of declaring themselves green. However, it did not take long for them to lose steam, which I believe was a result of lack of incentives to keep their eco-caps on. How, for instance, could you tell a bank not to fund a $20 million contract because the project is not eco-friendly; when a sister bank would snap up the opportunity right under the nose of the CBN?
If Emefiele is serious about going green, he should create a state-owned green bank, the same way we have Bank of Industry. There are several ways to innovatively capitalise it so Nigeria could join the Green Bank Network – launched in 2015 COP21 to focus on clean energy finance.
Malaysia’s Green Technology Financing Corporation was launched in 2010 as a component of the government’s National Green Technology Policy, and offers a two per cent interest rate buy down and 60 per cent guaranteed financing for green tech projects.
The New York Green Bank was capitalised through re-purposed ratepayer surcharges and revenues generated by the issuance of emissions permits. Australia’s Clean Energy Finance Corporation was founded in 2012 with the purpose of mobilising investment in renewable energy, energy efficiency, and low emissions technologies; and has now attracted more than $3 billion in private sector investment.