The Nigerian Institute of Training and Development has said the COVID-19 pandemic took a huge toll on training and development programmes in 2020. The President and Chairman of Governing Council, NITAD, Mrs Ayoade Igbeyi, at the institute’s annual general meeting in Lagos, called for the passage of the Chartered Institute of Training and Development of Nigeria Bill, which was re-presented to the National Assembly. The bill was one of those the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), declined assent to in 2019. She said, “We have worked on that area where the President said we had issues; so, we have re-submitted, and we are hoping that the government will assist us because we have been on for 32 years. And if we have not been found wanting, I think we should be given the recognition we deserve.” Igbeyi noted that the world’s economy was badly hit in 2020 by the COVID-19-induced lockdown, adding that Nigeria and NITDA were not left out. She said, “Training, learning and development have never had it so bad in our professional lifetime. Layoffs, rightsising, work from home, wages/budget cut, new job schedules, KPIs and new ways of measuring performance of employees who work from home are some of our testimonies. “Within a space of time, virtual meetings became part of workplace activities. These changes in the world of work and lifestyle is termed ‘the new normal’. “Workplace and the workforce have changed forever. The reality of this is that we as learning and development professionals should re-tighten our girdle and prepare for the ‘next normal’ by learning, unlearning and relearning.” Igbeyi said NITAD would become more open and forge strategic partnerships in the conduct of its affairs. The acting Registrar/Chief Executive Officer, Mr Kayode Adejumo, said the COVID-19 pandemic had an adverse effect on the members’ ability to pay annual dues as well as learning and development activities, among others. He said the institute conducted three induction ceremonies in 2020, adding that a total of 79 new members were formally admitted into the institute. ”Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com