The African Union, in partnership with the International Committee of the All African Music Awards, has formally unveiled the calendar of events for the upcoming 2021 edition of the awards ceremony. The unveiling event, which took place at the African Union’s headquarters in Ethiopia on June 23, 2021, marks the formal opening of AFRIMA 2021 and features a line-up of undertakings and events that would take place between June 20 and November 21, 2021. Speaking on behalf of the African Union, the Director of Health, Humanitarian Affairs and Social Development, Cisse Mohamed, said, “The COVID-19 pandemic resulted in multiple setbacks for the continent, but AFRIMA is committed to uniting the continent through entertainment and honouring their tradition of celebrating the scintillating musical culture of Africa by featuring exhilarating Pan-Africa events throughout the 2021, and we are looking forward to celebrating the richness of the African continent alongside AFRIMA in November.” According to a document signed by Mohamed, entries can be submitted by African music professionals, either living on the continent or in the Diaspora, from June 28 to August 20, 2021. It also noted that the songs and videos must be produced or released between June 1, 2020 and August 20, 2021. Other activities slated on the calendar include a pre-screening process, where submitted entries will go through screening carried out by the screening committee of AFRIMA. The screening process would be done from August 21 to 28 2021, after which the International Jury of AFRIMA comprising a 13-man panel of experienced African music experts and practitioners will carry out the adjudication process from August 29 to September 6. On completion, a ‘world media announcement’ of nominees will take place on September 7 to publicly unveil the nominees. On September 8, the AFRIMA Academy as well as music fans and followers around the globe will begin to participate in the public voting process to be conducted on AFRIMA’s website, during which the nominees will receive votes that could lead them to emerging winners in the various categories of the awards. The voting process, which closes 24 hours before the awards ceremony, would be monitored and audited by a reputable international auditing firm. Finally, the awards ceremony, set to hold from November 18 to November 21, 2021, will feature a three-day fiesta of music, glamour, ‘Afrocentrism’ and entertainment. The event will commence with the welcome soiree, followed by the AFRIMA Music Village, the host city tour, Africa Music Business Summit, and the exclusive nominees’ party and concluded with the live awards ceremony. Fans of African music globally can take part in the events on social media, live stream on the AFRIMA website, the AFRIMA App and by tuning to over 84 television stations which are AFRIMA partners. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com