Ogoni youths in Rivers State on Tuesday blocked the Eleme area of the East-West road during a protest over the deplorable condition of the road. This is as they threatened to halt the ongoing rehabilitation of the Port Harcourt refinery, which is expected to gulp about $1.5bn if the Federal Government failed to address their demands. The protest, which lasted for hours, caused heavy gridlock on the road, as motorists were stranded, while commuters trekked long distances. Numbering over 70, the protesters expressed anger that the apex government was paying lip service to the Ogoni section of the road, which linked the Onne Sea Ports, the Oil and Gas Free Trade Zone, and the Port Harcourt refinery company. Speaking on behalf of the youth, the President-General, Ogoni Youths, Legborsi Yamaabana, said it was disheartening that the Federal Government, despite contracting a firm to repair the refinery, failed to fix the road leading to the company. “We have come as followers of Ken Saro-Wiwa; we are doing it non-violently and we shall win. Ogoni has been raped; this road leads to two refineries, but it is in a dilapidated state and we are saying no to that. “We are saying that before the refineries are rehabilitated, the road must be fixed or there will not be any rehabilitation. “Within 14 days from this very moment, including Sundays, if that is not done, we shall be back, because this is just a warning protest. We will ensure that all economic activities within this axis are paralysed. “The refinery, the petrochemical, the two seaports, the NPA and the oil and gas free zone and the over 300 multinational companies operating here will be shut down; there will be no business in this axis,” he stated. The group also called for the immediate appointment of a substantive board for the Niger Delta Development Commission, as well as the exoneration of late environmental rights activist, Ken Saro-Wiwa, who was executed by the regime of late General Sani Abacha over alleged criminal offences. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com