Sterling Homes Limited, a real estate firm, has said it will renovate 26 schools within Odi-Olowo/Ojuwoye Local Council Development Area in Lagos State. The Chief Executive Officer, of Sterling Homes Limited, Dr. Kunle Adeyemi, said this at the Children’s Day celebration in Ilupeju Secondary School, Lagos. The event also had in attendance the Vice-Chairman of Odi-Olowo/Ojuwoye LCDA, Seyi Jakande; Head of Department, Education, Odi-Olowo Ojuwoye LCDA, Mrs Lawal Aminat and other dignitaries. Adeyemi disclosed that the event was in line with the company’s values of being particular about the future and promoting excellence, exemplified by its investment in education. He said, “We have been 11 years in existence as an organisation and every year our target has been to give back to the society, particularly school children. “As an organisation this is one of our corporate social responsibilities. In the course of the year we are also doing face-lifting to about 26 schools in Mushin LGA. “What we are doing is to bring back this culture where children know that a day from 365 days is dedicated solely for them. We partnered with Lagos State Government, particularly Odi-Olowo LCDA and we have about 27 public schools here.” Also speaking at the event, the Vice-Chairman of the LCDA, Seyi Jakande, who delivered the keynote address on behalf of the Chairman, Hon. Rasaq Ajala, said that he was delighted to be part of the celebrations. He said, “The most important resource in any society is the children’s population and human capital. “For society to be set on the path of greatness, it must start by stimulating children’s interest in qualitative education and positive engagement of their energies,” Jakande said. He advised parents to focus on their children and lead good examples to forestall them from inculcating social vices. He added, “I would like to advise parents to enforce discipline on their children. Parents should live exemplary lives and be a mirror to their children. “School authorities should have high standards of discipline and stringent punishments for misbehaviour. This will serve as a solution to end cultism and other vices plaguing our society today,” Jakande added. He implored parents to perform their civic duties of paying their rates when due, in order to meet up with the administration’s commitment to provide the benefits of governance for children and residents at large. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com