The Caretaker Committee of the All Progressives Congress in Osun State on Saturday nullified the suspension of an ex-Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Kolapo Alimi. Alimi, a lawyer, who served as a commissioner during the tenure of ex-governor Rauf Aregbesola was suspended over alleged anti-party activities by the APC executives in Elerin C, Ward 9, in the Irepodun South Local Council Development Authority of the state. But a letter signed by the Osun State Legal Adviser, APC Caretaker Committee, Adegoke Ogunsola, nullified the suspension on behalf of the state leadership of the party. This was in response to a suspension directive earlier written by Alimi’s ward executives. Ogunsola explained that the suspension could not be ratified by the state executives because the procedure laid down in Article 21 of the APC’s constitution, which regulates the decision of the party to suspend its members found guilty of misconduct or anti-party activities, was not strictly followed by those who suspended Alimi. He however noted that Alimi’s alleged derogatory statements against Governor Adegboyega Oyetola and the state APC Caretaker Chairman, Gboyega Famoodun, embarrassed the ruling party in the state. The letter read in part, “I wish to note, on behalf of the All Progressives Congress, Osun State Chapter, that the recent political activities and conducts and the derogatory utterances of Barr. Kolapo Maruf Alimi, the immediate past Commissioner for Local Government in the State and a political associate of the immediate past Governor of Osun State, Mr Rauf Aregbesola, against the Governor of the state, His Excellency, Alhaji Isiaka Adegboyega Oyetola and the Chairman of the state Caretaker Committee of All Progressives Congress, Prince Gboyega Famodun, are worrisome and constitute monumental embarrassment to the Osun State Chapter of the All Progressives Congress . “However, as a political party that believes in the rule of law and the principle of fair hearing, it has been observed that the procedure laid down in Article 21 of the All Progressives Congress onstitution, which regulates the decision of the party to suspend its members found guilty of misconduct or/and anti-party activities, was not strictly followed by the APC Caretaker Committee at Ward 09 (Elerin C) of Irepodun Local Government Council Area of Osun State in suspending Barr. Kolapo Maruf Alimi. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com