A 24-year-old man, Christian Edem Eyo, has been arrested for allegedly killing his aunt in Calabar, Cross River State. It was gathered that the incident happened on Wednesday where they live in the same compound along Inyang Street in the Calabar South Local Government Area. It was gathered that after killing the woman, Uduak Effiong, Eyo buried her body in a shallow grave in front of the compound, took the head into his inner room where he had two graves, as well as a pit, and dumped the victim’s head in the pit. It was gathered that Eyo, also known as Etteobong at home, lives in a two-room apartment while the late woman with her two children lived in a different apartment within the compound. Eyewitness said they saw the fresh head of the woman who was in her sixties after she was killed and also saw blood stains in the room and in front of the compound. According to one of the victim’s children named Nkoyo, the incident happened between 5am and 6am. She said she heard some noise made by vigilante youths, adding that when she came out, she was told that someone had been killed and buried in the compound. Nkoyo also said she saw Etteobong and asked him what happened and he said that he had killed her mother. “It was at that point that the police arrived and started shooting in the air and I also ran inside the house. They arrested him. But he used the machete to injured one of the policemen before he was arrested,” she said. She said her mother usually went early outside to take her morning bath, adding that someone in a nearby building saw the suspect when he was trying to bury her mother’s body in the shallow grave he dug. When contacted, the Deputy Police Public Relations Officer, Igiri Ewa, said “The suspect is in our custody.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com