A number of veteran journalists have come out to say that the unnecessary #TwitterBan drama has a lot to do with a larger political game plan, which is to gag press freedom. At first, it looked like it was not the case but from what we read lately, it looks like the media industry is in for a long battle ahead. The importance of a free press in today’s advanced society cannot be overemphasised. Historically, the media has always performed vital yet multifaceted roles in democratic societies, being a source of information, a watchdog of governments and the champion of the oppressed. It also serves as a platform that attempts to bridge the gap between a government and its citizens. In the past, governments have often relied on the media to communicate with the public on policies that will shape their everyday decisions, behaviour and general well-being. In a similar vein, citizens depend on the media to make known to the government their social and political views, opinions and expectations. Ironically, in an age where mankind has surpassed itself in technological advancement and innovation, media freedom is in a downward spiral across the globe. The right to seek and disseminate information through independent media is under severe attack. Sadly, even in democratic nations, the very leaders that ought to be press freedom’s biggest allies are its fiercest attackers. This current trend is a symptom of a global deterioration in the norms of democracy which, in itself, is alarming as it will lead to a subsequent breakdown of other democratic institutions and principles. According to Freedom in the World data compiled by Freedom House, a US-based non-profit NGO that conducts research on democracy, political freedom and human rights, media freedom has been on the decline around the world over the past decade, with new forms of repression taking hold in open societies and authoritarian states alike.This is certainly the case in Nigeria where the government is doing all it can to gag the media. Currently, the National Assembly is considering two bills – National Broadcasting Commission Amendment Bill and the Nigerian Press Council Act Amendment Bill – that, if passed, could crush press freedom in Nigeria. At a recent public hearing convened by the House of Representatives, the Minister of Information, Lai Mohammed, recommended that the lawmakers amend the National Broadcasting Commission Act to empower the agency to regulate social and online media. The minister said all online and Internet broadcasting entities should be included in section two (c) of the bill, which seeks to endow NBC the powers to “receive, process and consider applications for the establishment, ownership of radio and television stations including cable television services, direct satellite broadcast and any other medium of broadcasting.” This proposition is coming in the wake of the government’s obnoxious move to regulate social media platforms including Twitter, Facebook and Instagram, as well as other online broadcasting service providers to apply for broadcast licences. Although Nigerians are no longer surprised at the government’s unreasonable edicts as they seem to churn them out in a blink of an eye, this campaign to repress the media is a strong indication that our political rights and civil liberties are in danger. Generally, assaults on media independence are frequently associated with power grabs by new leaders or, in Nigeria’s case, incumbent leaders with an entrenched autocratic tendency to eliminate perceived threats to their control. The truth is that our government cannot be trusted to act in our best interest. Information coming from the government is largely ignored at worst and at best, taken with a pinch of salt. By proposing to grant the NBC power to sanction a station, fine or revoke a licence, the government is endowing an unelected body an inordinate amount of power to determine public interest. Media houses can never and should never become an extension of the Federal Ministry of Information. For one, a free and independent media sector that can keep the population informed and hold leaders accountable is necessary to drive strong and sustainable democracy. In the absence of this, if the two bills are passed, citizens will no longer be able to make informed decisions about how they are governed, and abuse of power will continue unchecked. To this effect, the International Press Centre has moved to oppose this latest attempt by the government to criminalise journalism in the country. The Executive Director of the centre, Lanre Arogundade, noted that this bill would give the information ministry undue control of the press. “The NPC Act is so ridiculous that the proposed amendment is saying that a National Press Code shall be drawn up and the code will come into effect only with the approval of the Minister of Information. So, they are saying in effect that all newspapers are a department of the Ministry of Information,” he said. According to the Nigerian Guild of Editors, the intervention of the minister of information is unwelcome as the Nigerian Press Council doesn’t need the approval of the Minister of Information to establish and disseminate a National Press Code and standards to guide the conduct of print media, related media houses and media practitioners and approves penalties and fines against violation of the press code, as provided for in the bill. The President of Nigeria has been publicly vilified for his tireless attempt to clamp down on Nigerians’ freedom of expression when he could be directing all that zeal to address the impending national crisis, among other troubles afflicting the country. Femi Adesina, the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, claims that “the proposed bill is completely outside the Presidency’s purview”, noting that the matter was a government thing, which only the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, could adequately address. Regardless of this disclaimer, the media industry is not a political opponent or enemy of the Federal Government and shouldn’t be treated thus. A couple of questions came to mind after watching some clips from the public hearing: Does Minister Lai Mohammed even understand the term ‘convergence’? Does he realise that other serious countries have converged and many others are following suit? So, assuming one of his agencies get the rights to regulate social media, what then is the role of the Nigeria Communications Commission? A number of times I have advocated via this column that Nigeria should converge because as technology stands today, the line between media and technology is blurred. Having two bloated ministries is a complete waste of scarce resources. Finally, as a media practitioner, I call on the Nigerian government to address this threat against media freedom by killing off these outrageous bills. The government should redirect its focus to the present ills bedevilling the country and work harder to brighten the nation’s tarnished image before the international community. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com