The Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria says it supports the new centralisation policy of online payment for products by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation. In a statement issued on Tuesday by the association’s Public Relations Officer, Yakubu Suleiman, IPMAN assured of its compliance with the policy by the NNPC and its petroleum products marketing arm, the Pipeline and Products Marketing Company. The association also disclosed that it had approved the renewal of bulk purchase agreements between the marketers and PPMC. Suleiman said the clarification was necessitated by a complaint made by a group allegedly publicising itself as speaking on behalf of IPMAN over the issues. He noted that the association had no faction as the issue had been settled by a Supreme Court judgment delivered in Abuja on December 14, 2018. He said the judgment read by Justice Musa Muhammad in suit No. SC15/2015 recognised Mr Chinedu Okoronkwo as the authentic president of IPMAN. Suleiman said, “IPMAN as a body supports reforms and policies that will ensure transparency, availability and smooth delivery of petroleum products being initiated by the government through its agencies. “We believe that the new centralisation policy for online products and the renewal of bulk purchase agreements with the NNPC and the PPMC are needed at this point. “There is no other group recognised by law to speak on behalf of independent marketers except IPMAN and we urge the authorities to disregard any complaints coming from such quarters.’’ He said IPMAN would continue to support efforts of the government and other stakeholders in the industry to ensure that Nigerians continued to enjoy undisrupted supply of petroleum products across the country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com