THE President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Tuesday convened an emergency security meeting aimed at assessing security challenges across the country and proffering solutions. The meeting held at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, was attended by Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo; Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha; Ministers of Defence, Major-General Bashir Magashi (retd.); Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geoffery Onyema; and the National Security Adviser, Major General Babagana Monguno (retd.). Others, who attended were the Chief of Defence Staff, General Lucky Irabor; Chief of Army Staff, Major General Farouk Yahaya; Chief of Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Awwal Zubairu; Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Isiaka Amoo; Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba; the Director-General, National Intelligence Agency, Ahmed Rufa’I; and the Director-General of the Department of State Services, Yusuf Bichi, among others. State House correspondents were not briefed of the outcome of the meeting. As of the time of filing this report, the Presidency and the NSA had also not issued any statement on the meeting. Meanwhile, Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodimma, who was also at the Presidential Villa on Tuesday, told State House correspondents that the task of restoring peace to his state and the entire South-East was for everybody and not him alone. “In Imo State as I speak to you, only me cannot restore security; only me cannot guarantee security. “I have to work with traditional rulers; I have to work with opinion leaders. I have to work with the youth leaders to be able to deploy a community kind of security programme, to be able to resist what is going on today,” the governor said. Uzodimma also faulted opposition political leaders who he accused of turning a blind eye to the current killings and insecurity and flaming the embers of violence. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com