The family of the 92-year-old monarch of Ayama Ekede community in the Andoni Local Government Area of Rivers State, Bibama Ekpirikpo, has accused the police of demanding a huge sum of money to search for him. The monarch was kidnapped by gunmen on Monday, May 17, 2021, from his residence in Andoni. His son, Jonathan, who spoke exclusively to our correspondent on Monday, said the kidnappers had yet to contact any member of the family. He expressed fear over his father’s fragile state of health, even as he reiterated his call on the Rivers State Government to intervene. Jonathan stated, “Since he was abducted, the kidnappers have not established any contact with us. We have not heard anything from them.  We are appealing that he should be released unconditionally, because he has a health condition. “We are also calling on the state government to intervene. Right now, we don’t know what to do because there is no money. “We reported the matter to the police in Andoni. But they are demanding huge sum of money to get involved. We can’t afford that kind of money. “The last time my people went there, the police said they would transfer the case to Port Harcourt. But we don’t know how far they have gone. We even went on radio, where we called for government’s intervention. “What can we do? We just hand everything to God. We are very worried. That is the situation.” When contacted, the spokesman for the state police command, Nnamdi Omoni, said he was not aware of the police asking for money and asked our correspondent to send his number to the family. “If anyone is asking for money, I am not aware. Who is asking for money? Why didn’t he (Jonathan) report to us? Give him my number let him call me. We will take it from there,” Omoni stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com