The Senate Committee on Ethics, Privileges and Public Petition has, for the third time, summoned the Chairman of the Code of Conduct Tribunal, Mr Danladi Umar. The development followed the failure of the CCT judge to address the panel on the two occasions he was invited and the subsequent withdrawal of the petitioner from the case. The judge was invited by the Senate panel over a case of alleged assault on Clement Sagwak, 22, an employee of Jul Reliable Guards Services Limited. Sagwak had, through his counsel, Timzing Ramnap, petitioned the Senate, while the Senator representing Plateau North, Istifanus Gyang, laid the petition before the Senate on April 29, 2021. The petitioner alleged that he was assaulted by Umar and the policeman attached to the judge after he informed him (Umar) that his car was not properly parked in front of a shop at Banex Plaza in Wuse 2, Abuja, on March 30. He said the CCT boss slapped him several times and forced him to kneel in public. Investigation by our correspondent on Thursday revealed that the petitioner, through his lawyers, communicated to the Senate panel his intention to withdraw the petition. The Chairman of the Senate panel, Senator Ayo Akinyelure, who confirmed the development to our correspondent, said the case would still go on despite the decision of Sagwak to dump his petition. Akinyelure said, “The petitioner wrote a letter of withdrawal and the letter was brought to my office on Wednesday. We told the lawyers who represented him that the contents in the letter of withdrawal did not give sufficient information. “So, we have invited the petitioner through his lawyers to come and explain the reasons for his withdrawal from the case. “It is when the assaulted man returns to the Senate with the required letter that my committee would determine the next line of action. “This is necessary because twice invitations had been extended to Mr Danladi Umar to come and defend himself before the Senate, and he had not done so, citing health reasons. “We are still going to invite the Chairman of the Code of Conduct Tribunal once more, and if he failed to come again, and the petitioner insisted on withdrawing their petition, then, the whole Nigeria will know that the hand of the Senate was clean.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com