Gunmen suspected to be kidnappers have killed two persons in the Jos East Local Government Area of Plateau State. One of those killed was identified as a Peoples Democratic Party candidate vying for councillor in the Furbor district of the council area and another said to be a lady. It was learnt that the victims were killed when suspected kidnappers invaded the community on Thursday night. The senator representing Plateau North, Istifanus Gyang, confirmed the killing of the two youths in a statement by his Special Assistant on Media on Protocol, Musa Ashoms, on Friday. Gyang said, “Senator I.D. Gyang of Plateau North is enraged by the report of the killing of two youths of Fobur District, Jos East Local Government by kidnappers. One of the victims was a councillorship candidate of the PDP in the forthcoming local government elections in Plateau State. “The senator decries the spate of killings that his constituents continue to suffer. Just last week, 12 persons were killed at Kuru in Jos South local government by terrorists. “These ugly occurrences place demands on the security agencies who have the duty to secure citizens to reinforce the fight against crime and criminality in the state. “Senator Gyang commiserates with the families of the deceased and prays for the repose of their souls, while urging citizens to be vigilant and watchful against threats to their safety and wellbeing” The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Ubah Ogaba, who also confirmed the death of two persons, however, said one person who was abducted by the attackers was rescued by the police. Ogaba said, “On 24/06/2021, at about 2230hrs, the command received a report that one Anap Ajiji Gwom ‘f’ of Resek Village in Jos East LGA was abducted. On the receipt of the report, a combined team of policemen, Operation Safe Haven, vigilante and hunters were immediately deployed to rescue the victim. “The rescue team, on sighting the abductors, engaged them in a gun battle. Unfortunately, two hunters lost their lives in the process, while the abductors fled with various degrees of bullet wounds. The abductee was released unhurt and has been reunited with her family. “An investigation is ongoing to arrest the perpetrators of that act and bring them to book. Useful information to aid our investigation will be welcomed.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com