The Lagos State Independent Electoral Commission has said it remains an unbiased umpire and is committed to ensuring a free and fair local government election in the state. The Head of Public Affairs LASIEC, Mr Tope Ojo, made this known in a statement on Monday in reaction to reports that the body replaced the names of some winners of the All Progressives Congress local government chairmen and councillorship primaries in the list published by the commission. LASIEC had also been accused of deregistering political parties in Lagos from participating in the forthcoming poll, But Ojo, in the statement, said, “For the avoidance of doubt, LASIEC as a State Independent Election Commission (SIEC) does not issue out nomination forms to individuals but to the political parties who intend to sponsor candidates for elections. The parties then conduct their primaries and forward the names of their candidates to LASIEC for validation. The power to change or substitute candidates lies with the political parties and not the electoral body.” The electoral umpire spokesman also urged the public to disregard report which claimed that it had deregistered political parties, saying only the Independent National Electoral Commission was constitutionally empowered to de-register parties. “In the same vein, the commission also refutes a social media post attributed to a protester in Lagos, alleging that the commission has de-registered more than 88 political parties from participating in the forthcoming local council polls, especially political parties that belong to the youths in Lagos State. “LASIEC does not have the statutory mandate to de-register political parties. The Independent National Electoral Commission pursuant to the provision of Section 225A of the 1999 Constitution (as amended by the Fourth Alteration, No. 9) Act, 2017, is the only body empowered to register, de-register and regulate political parties and their activities in accordance with the provisions of the law. “LASIEC is only dealing with the 18 registered political parties certified and confirmed by INEC for the issuance of nomination forms for the conduct of the local council poll scheduled to hold on July 24, 2021. It is also important to state that out of the 18 political parties, 15 of them have indicated their interest in participating in the election by obtaining nomination forms for their candidates,” the statement added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com