Huawei Technologies Company Nigeria Limited, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation and various stakeholders in the oil and gas sector are discussing measures to further advance the fortunes of Nigeria’s oil industry. Industry operators, alongside other players in the sector, commenced discussions on better ways to run the oil industry at the 2021 Nigeria International Petroleum Summit currently ongoing in Abuja. Aside from Huawei and NNPC, other stakeholders who participated at different sessions of the summit included delegates from PwC Nigeria, IDSL, Agip, Shell Petroleum, ExxonMobil, Chevron and Total. Speaking during the session on ‘Data to Barrel’, the Managing Director, Huawei Technologies, Michael Zhuang, said his firm was dedicated to promoting digital transformation and reducing the digital gap in all industries. He noted that in Nigeria, Huawei had partnered both international and local oil companies in the upstream, midstream and downstream arms to promote oil and gas digital transformation, adding that the firm remained committed to continuously provide support and innovation. He said, “Over the years, we have been able to specifically contribute in the following ways: In the upstream, we have installed our oilfield monitoring solution for Agip. “With this integrated oilfield IoT solution by Huawei, it is now possible to visualise and monitor real time production and reduce the vandalism on well sites.” Zhuang added, “In the midstream, we have delivered AKK pipeline camp with Huawei IVS monitoring and campus network/office solution to improve camp safety monitoring and office experience. “In the downstream, we have also delivered our monitoring solution for NNPC retail to enable more safety and secure management at its headquarter office and mega petrol stations.” On enterprise information, the Huawei boss said his firm had delivered a green modular data centre solution for IDSL to reduce the data centre O&M cost and improve efficiency. Earlier in one of the sessions, the Group Managing Director, NNPC, Mele Kyari, also pointed out that the industry was going through concerns ranging from energy transition to COVID-19 induced challenges. He, however, noted that domestically, the government was working to address the challenges facing the industry in Nigeria. The NNPC boss said, “We are also aware that cost is everything in the future. The crisis has thrown up the fact that only the best of producers will survive and therefore cost control become a major issue in the industry. “Funding also is a major issue in the industry today for two reasons. One, there is paucity of resources across the globe and secondly, there is overall reluctance by investing companies and banks to put money into fossil fuels related businesses.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com