Some eight years ago, on this page, we discussed how to take care of our genitals. We said some about the area being amenable to be cleaned with ease to guarantee the overall health of the entire pubic area. However, there has emerged a certain tendency towards an extreme approach to such cleanliness amongst young adults, teenagers and women who go beyond trimming their pubic hair and actually remove all of it entirely. While a much larger number of urban and university women are more likely to do so, a smaller percentage of men are currently engaged in this practice. Very interestingly, many of these people cite improved personal hygiene as the reason for their decision. In a 2016 study conducted among American women, about 60 per cent of women admitted that they had removed their pubic hair for reasons of better hygiene. Some others said they did so for the benefit of their partners and another percentage claimed to have done so because it enabled them to feel smoother there. It is important to know that the possession of pubic hair is present not only in humans but also in primates of different species. But the growth of pubic hair is everyone’s right. It is also a natural thing to have and is one of the features that become evident during the development of secondary sexual characteristics during puberty. That should indicate that there is a reason or reasons for the development of these features. In both males and females, there is this development but the attitudes towards its retention vary enormously in people of both genders. The males do not see anything wrong with keeping pubic hair but the females have a diametrically opposite view: they feel almost universally that keeping pubic hair makes them feel as though they are dirty down there. As a result, they get it all shaved at intervals, deploying a number of tools to have this accomplished. Some use razors while others make do with shaving sticks. Others apply the various skin removal creams available and ensure they leave the whole area bald like a plucked chicken. Whichever way you choose in the end to deal with the hair there and even take care of the larger genital area ought to be your personal choice and therefore one you can defend. In the final analysis, it is worth noting that the removal of pubic hair does have some adverse health effects. Pubic hair exists for a number of reasons, chief among which is to protect the delicate skin of the pubic area from bruises and friction. The emergence of such wounds in the pubic area leaves the delicate skin there defenceless against some bacteria and viruses which can cause diseases. The viruses that easily come to mind are the herpes simplex viruses which cause a lot of anxiety, pain and anguish to many people who suffer from them. The other one is the human papillomavirus implicated in cervical cancer. Bacterial infections often cause pimples and boils in the region with some requiring antibiotic treatment. In some others, they endure the pain and discomfort of having ingrown hairs. Others will develop some degree of inflammation of their hair follicles leading to increased pigmentation of the skin in the zone. If such women are hoping to become models, or are already into such a line of trade, the development of sharply darker skin in that area becomes a minus for them and they are denied the freedom which the wearing of a bikini at the beach can confer. In the pursuit of their own version of cleanliness, they actually become worse off. Others develop keloids. The additional benefit of having pubic hair is that they serve as a conduit to waft odours that signal the development of our sexual maturity. Because of this role, it is usual to wash the area any time one takes a bath with a generous application of lather and thorough washing with water. Afterwards, what you must do to keep the region fresh is frankly your business. You can apply powder to guarantee dryness, or some perfume, or body spray. The key thing, however, is to ensure the underwear is kept clean, changed or washed frequently and clingy without being tight. Tight underwear chaff the skin and may cause cuts and bruises to the skin that can lay open the possibility of skin infection. Failure to take good care of this tuft of hair in the pubic region has often led some to grow pubic lice which is as disgusting as it sounds. It is a mark of immense lack of good personal hygiene to see this sort of infestation develop in an adult or teen but these things happen and we see them fairly often in the consulting room. The removal of pubic hair today is increasingly associated with the risk of suffering from syphilis, herpes and human papillomavirus, HPV, and a four-time increase in the chance of getting genital tract infections. Pubic hair is also known to help reduce the amount of sweat produced around the vagina. It blocks the vagina itself from getting sexually transmitted infections as we saw above and also helps prevent bacteria from causing urinary tract infections or yeast from causing vaginal infections. Among women who find themselves denied a toilet to pass urine when they are outdoors, they will recognise the fact that possession of pubic hair helps to direct their urine in a predictable trajectory almost similar to the penis in males when they have to. In our country where the absence of sanitary facilities is so common, this is a peculiar feature women can rely on to safely pass urine when they are outside their homes without getting their feet splashed with either urine or mud created by urine. It has to be one of the true wonders of nature for women who have pubic hair to be able to generate the condition that enables them to do this. Those who do not have pubic hair will either have to squat while urinating or risk getting their feet wet with urine or mud or both. It is, therefore, not more hygienic to remove your pubic hair. In fact, you face the risk of more exposure to potential infections, disease and discomfort. Pubic hair helps also to regulate body temperature because it is able to collect the sweat that gathers on the skin there, and allows it to run off the skin using the pubic hair as the conduit and by so doing, remove the heat from the skin and genitals. This complex action helps keep the whole region cool and comfortable. When this sweat is acted upon by the bacteria native to that area, it produces an attractive scent pleasurable to the opposite sex. This happens when such products are added to the pheromones which are more likely to be perceived rather than smelled, to produce the complex web of scents that attract people to one another. The mystery is perhaps not as important as we give it credit for but it is likely to be diminished if not lost entirely as a result of the absence of pubic hair. Finally, the growth of pubic hair confirms our individual maturity and signals a readiness to procreate. However, social perception of its role in our body has rapidly changed in the last three decades not because of the hard facts but because of imagination and fashion. Dear doctor, I am happy I came in contact with your piece in Sunday PUNCH where you asked where is your pain? Sir, for a long time now, my bare foot is always paining me. The moment I stand up from sitting for a long time, or when I wake up from sleep, I cannot move my legs properly. Kindly help me out, sir. Thank you very much for the favourable response I hope to get from you. 0803xxxxxxx Thank you very much for your question. Such pain is often due to some kind of arthritis involving the small joints in the foot. Now, because the foot is a weight-bearing part of the body, it suffers when you have sat or lay down for a long time and suddenly get up. The pain can be severe. There are some home remedies you can employ for this. You can soak your feet in warm water for 15 to 20 minutes every night before you go to bed and every morning when you wake up. In addition, you can take any of the common pain relievers you can obtain over the counter and use it judiciously such as paracetamol or Ibuprofen at the direction of a pharmacist. If you do this religiously for two weeks and do not get some relief, then you must see a doctor for further examination and advice. Dear doctor, I was diagnosed with an ulcer about 20 years ago. The doctor recommended Cimetidine tablets for me then which really worked for me. Three years later, I stopped using the drugs which was okay because I was fine. However, just about four years ago, the ulcer re-surfaced. What could have caused the resurgence? I live in the United Arab Emirates where Cimetidine is banned! Which drug can I use to replace Cimetidine? Thanks for the good work you are doing.  +xxxxxxx Thank you for your kind words. It is a surprise to me to learn that Cimetidine is banned in the UAE. However, there are more modern, more effective medications now in use to treat peptic ulcer and I am sure those drugs are available in the UAE. If they can ban the sale of Cimetidine, then no prescription I offer you here is guaranteed to be available for you to purchase. My advice would be for you to go to a hospital there and get a proper examination following which I am sure your doctor will prescribe the current combination therapy of medications for you that will guarantee your cure. The advantage of seeking such a cure is that there will be no recurrence. With Cimetidine, what you have is the management of the condition which is why it has returned after so long. Dear doctor, thanks for all you do for us with your health articles. Please what natural energy boosters can I take so I don’t sleep while reading? 0805xxxxxxx You have already given us an idea about what the problem is, which is that you sleep when you don’t want to. You must, therefore, sleep adequately especially at night and try to get at least seven hours of sleep in a single night. Besides, you should limit or stop cigarette smoking and also limit your intake of alcohol. You must also avoid having to add sugar to anything you take, especially beverages and foods like pap, custard and oats. You should take more fruits such as bananas and watermelon and increase your intake of vegetables. The more natural foods you take, the better chances you have of beating this problem. In addition, seafoods such as fish and crab are good for maintaining your level of alertness. Fish like salmon and tuna are particularly good because of their rich stock of omega 3 oil. Finally, you must drink enough water to stay properly hydrated. When you take all of these facts together, you can be guaranteed to avoid falling asleep when reading. Dear doctor, permit me to join many who thank you for your good work in Sunday PUNCH. Thanks a lot. Not long ago, you wrote an interesting piece on blood clot. It was quite educative, informative, lucid and appropriate at the time that the COVID-19 vaccine was said to be implicated. I thought I saved the article but I can’t find it. Can you please rewrite it as we are now taking the said vaccine? It is important for people to have an idea of the tell-tale signs of the blood clot. Thank you. 0802xxxxxxx Thank you very much for this question. The telltale signs are easy enough and it is usually a sequence of events. First, there is swelling because there is a clot. Then there is pain. Afterwards, the area beyond the segment where there is swelling begins to get dark. At this stage, a mild fever might develop and all sensations in the now darkened part could disappear. At the stage at which a darker, distant part of the affected body part develops, a natural separation between the living part and the dying aspect has taken place and such a person will need to return to the hospital at that point and see a doctor. As for the original article, there are two ways of accessing it: you can go to www.punchopnline.ng and check Ask The Doctor or you can put my name into Google search and look for the particular article you seek. Either way, the real information you are seeking is what I have serialised above. Dear doctor, I have a lovely family and four children; two boys and two girls. The eldest boy is 14 years old and in the boarding house. I also do everything within my power to keep my home. Some days ago, I had a very unusual conversation with my husband. He called me after taking me out and said that the children will soon be home and that I will shift my attention to them and neglect him. He said my love life for 2021 has been zero. I know I love him very much and I have told him so. Please, help me. I have not been able to sleep well since then and I am not myself. I need your advice. Why do you think my husband has suddenly changed? Is it normal for a man to become jealous of his children? I have been praying about it but I feel that nothing has changed. Thank you, doctor 0802xxxxxxx Well, prayers are usually helpful but they will not solve every conceivable problem. A man can be jealous of his children. The boys tend to be closer to their mother while the girls gravitate towards their father. When they are not at home, there is no tension because the man has unfettered access to his wife. So all men who do not have this insight will not understand. However, when the children are set to repossess their space within the family environment as will happen when the holidays come, the man may have signs of anxiety as his sons are set to displace him from their mother’s prime attention. However, it is not usual to have a man express it so openly because he feels alone as the wife and children spend so much time in each other’s company. It is a psychological disorder named by the illustrious Sigmund Freud as the Oedipus Complex. It describes a repressed kind of jealousy like this one but it is seldom expressed openly as your husband has done. For that, there is no treatment but to learn how to balance your skills as a mother with that of a wife. Dear Doctor, thanks for your regular medical advice and suggestions. I am 76 years of age. I need your advice on my pulse. What is the normal pulse for my age? I found out that my pulse has always been between 61 and 67. Sometimes it will fall below that, say around 56 and 57. Thanks in advance for your usual professional advice.  God bless. xxx@,com There is nothing wrong with your pulse rate sir. With a reading of 56 or 57, it is expected that you have remained physically active with regards to your age. That would be the case if you have a heart that is larger than the average size for your age as a result of all the physical activities in which you have been involved, possibly throughout your life. And at between 61 and 67, it is actually an excellent reading when you are relaxing in your home. There is nothing to fear sir. Dear doctor, I did an operation on my tummy about a year ago and recently, I noticed that some of the thread has remained in place. It was my mother who is a retired chief matron that helped me remove them at home at the time. What should I do? Is there any side effect of them being there for so long? Is it possible that she did not see these ones or what do you think happened?  Thank you. 0802xxxxxxx Well, if your mother removed them, she would have wanted to do a proper job of it. As you have let on that she is retired, she is possibly quite elderly now and with diminished vision. Maybe, she did not see these ones. You can always go back to the hospital where the operation was done and complain. I am certain they will take a look at the site and remove these sutures which are no longer doing any useful thing there. That said, there is no side effect of having had them there for this long other than for their nuisance value. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com