The Aliko Dangote Foundation has donated N4.2bn as part of its Micro Grant Programme geared towards empowering women in the rural areas across the country. In a statement by the foundation, following the inauguration of its micro-grants Programme in Bauchi on Tuesday, the Group Executive Director, Government and Strategic Relations, Mansur Ahmed, said the unconditional micro grant was aimed at supporting the government effort’s in empowering poor families in the state. Ahmed stated the Foundation had earmarked N10bn to be disbursed to vulnerable women across the 774 Local Government Areas in the country. He added, “The micro-grants programme is one component of the economic empowerment pillar of the Aliko Dangote Foundation. “It provides disadvantaged and vulnerable women with a one-off, unconditional N10m cash transfer to boost their household income generation. This we believe will help reduce their vulnerability and meet their livelihood needs.” Ahmed said it was gratifying to note that majority of women who had benefitted from the scheme had been able to grow the seed capital. He said in Bauchi State, N200m was currently being disbursed to vulnerable women across the 20 Local Government Areas. Governor of the state, Senator Bala Muhammad while presenting ‘The Principle of Leadership’, a book written by Sheik Uthman Danfodio, to the Aliko Dangote Foundation, said he was happy about ADF’s intervention in supporting lives and livelihoods of women, children and families. He said, “Aliko Dangote is a beacon of hope for the Bauchi people. He has been creating not only business institutions at the highest levels but also touching lives at the lowest level. “He seems to understand Nigeria more than some of us who are politicians. He’s supporting our mothers who will help put food on our tables and train their children in schools.” Muhammad also urged the billionaire businessman to invest in the state and named the state’s school of nursing and midwifery after him. “We are also using this opportunity to inform him that he should come and invest in Bauchi. We have the highest deposit of limestone in the country. We have the largest arable land and the largest forest. Bauchi is also very peaceful and secure,” he said. The Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Abubakar Suleiman, described the intervention as huge, saying it would go a long way in supporting the poverty alleviation stride of the state government. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com