THE Edo State Government and the state All Progressive Congress are at loggerheads over the demolition of structures deemed illegal by the government. Some of the structures affected are shopping malls, hotels and other commercial buildings. The Secretary to the State Government, Osarodion Ogie, in a statement on Tuesday, said the exercise was aimed at ensuring order and sanitising the environment space in line with the extant laws and guidelines in the state for the benefit of Edo people. The statement reads, “The Edo State Government hereby informs the general public and property developers in particular that government is intensifying the removal of shopping malls, hotels and other commercial buildings erected without appropriate approvals from the relevant regulatory authorities. “The exercise is aimed at ensuring order and sanitising the built environment space in line with the extant laws and guidelines in the state for the benefit of the generality of Edo people. “In essence, all buildings and structures planned, being developed or completed in different parts of the state without approvals are to be discontinued and (or) removed. The same applies to such structures being embarked upon in unapproved locations across the state.” However, the APC, in a statement signed by its State Chairman, Col. David Imuse (retd.), condemned the demolition of one property at 13, Aideyan Street, on the Ihama axis, and another housing over 60 stores, which was undergoing construction at 90, Akenzua Road, both in Benin City. The APC said, “It is distressing that the Obaseki government is celebrating these demolitions like a rampaging occupation force. Col. Imuse said the government did not follow due process, and there is no evidence that the owners were served notice of infringement or intention to demolish. “He said further that such actions by government was an illegality, and amounts to willful and wanton destruction amidst excruciating unemployment rate, decayed infrastructure, a worsening governance system, and unprecedented poverty in our state.” But Governor Obaseki said the ongoing removal of illegal structures was in line with the state extant planning laws and regulations. Obaseki made this remark when he visited the demolition site of 30 lock-up stores illegally built at Iyekogba Housing Estate without a building permit. The governor said, “Over the last few weeks, you will notice that our team has been going round the town to remove illegal structures that don’t have a building permit, particularly in areas with public activity. “A lot of people build shopping malls across the city without building plans or approvals from the appropriate authority. Imagine a shopping mall on two or three levels, with almost 40 or 50 shops that has no approval. If such a building collapses, you can imagine the devastation it will create. “Government cannot sit idle and allow lawlessness and disarray in the way people construct buildings across the state.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com