The Publicity Secretary of the Caretaker Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party in Cross River State, Rita Ayim, has said she is one of those who have not been paid over their refusal to defect to the All Progressives Congress. “I have not been paid my May salary,” she told our correspondent in Calabar on Saturday, adding that the committee was looking into the issue. Ayim, last month, chose to resign as Commissioner for Women Affairs rather than defect with Governor Ben Ayade to the APC. Also, a member of the Cross River State House of Assembly, Itam Abang, who refused to defect, restated that she still held the PDP mandate and would not defect. The allowances of Abang, who represents Boki 1 State Constituency, and those of six other lawmakers as well as over 80 councillors, were allegedly being withheld on Ayade’s instruction because they refused to defect with him. When asked whether she would eventually defect, she said, “Why do you think I should defect? It is a democracy. I am free to belong to whichever party I want. And I hold the mandate of the PDP.” She declined to speak further on the next line of action she and other affected lawmakers would take, saying she did not have the mandate to speak on behalf of others. Reacting, the Special Adviser Media and Publicity to Governor Ayade, Christian Ita said, “There is no House of Assembly member whose salary is being owed. Nobody is being owed. The moment this rumour was circulating, I got across to the House of Assembly and was told no member of the House of Assembly was being owed or had their salaries withheld. “The same set of people making these claims went to a certain South-South state governor and collected N2m each. Beyond that the person promised delivering a Prado to each of them before the end of the week. They came back and were taunting other members who left for the APC. They should tell Cross Riverians what the N2m they got was for.” The state Publicity Secretary of APC, Bassey Ita did not take his call when contacted. Meanwhile, PDP has threatened to sue Governor Ayade for allegedly seizing the salaries and allowances of the affected members who refused to defect to APC. The Chairman of the State Caretaker Committee of the party, Efiok Cobham, issued the threat in Calabar, while condemning the governor’s action which he described as “criminal”. The affected officials are seven members of the state House of Assembly and over 80 local government councilors.The lawmakers are Rt.Hons Fred Osim (Ikom I), Okpechi Gabriel (Obubra I), Nelson Ofem (Yakurr I), Elizabeth Ironbar (Akpabuyo), Efa Esua (Calabar Municipality) and Itam Abang (Boki I). “We as a party would not fold our hands and allow our members to be humiliated just because they refused to join Ayade in APC. We shall seek redress in a competent court of law soon,” Cobham said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com