The Dangote Sugar Refinery has unveiled an innovative sugar brand, tagged ’New Look, Same Great Quality’. The ceremony for the unveiling of the white granulated white sugar took place on Thursday at the ongoing Kaduna 42nd International Trade Fair. A statement issued on Thursday in Lokoja, stated that the vitamin A fortified sugar excited participants who thronged the ‘Dangote Special Day’ to make enquiries. Speaking at the unveiling ceremony, Representative of the Dangote Sugar Refinery, Bello Sadik, described the DSR as the market leader. He said the repackaged product was part of the effort to consumers a superior quality. The acting President, Kaduna Chamber of Commerce Industry Mines and Agriculture, Alhaji Suleiman Aliyu, said Dangote Group had broken record in all its investments and undertakings. He congratulated the President of the Dangote Group, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, for the repackaged sugar product and several other innovations. “Dangote has come to rescue Nigeria to make it self sufficient in food and other products,” he said. Other products that were exhibited at the Dangote Special Day included Dangote Cement, Dangote Salt and Dangote Fertilizer. In his speech, the representative of the Dangote Group at the event, Mr Hashem Ahmed, said the company had keyed into the Federal Government’s backward integration oolicy to make Nigeria self sufficient in the sugar subsector. Hashem said Dangote was passionate about growing Nigeria’s economy which informed his current massive investment in sugar, and partnership with KADCCIMA and the Kaduna State Government. He said the company was currently working on its integrated sugar complexes in Adamawa, Nasarawa and Taraba respectively, adding that when completed they would have significant impacts on growing the Nigerian economy. He said the theme for this year’s trade fair, ‘Promoting domestic production to mitigate the current economic challenges’, was apt given the COVID-19 pandemic that had hit the world, leading to border closures. He said the conglomerate would not rest on its oars until Nigeria, indeed Africa settled in an enviable position among nations. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com