A medical practitioner and former member, Ekiti State House of Assembly, Dr Samuel Omotoso, said on Thursday that he was not afraid of being prosecuted for the alleged rape of a 14-year-old girl. Omotoso, who accused the Ekiti State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr Wale Fapohunda, of acting as the complainant, investigator, prosecutor and judge in the matter, faulted the AG’s claim that the state government had got a protective order to keep the teenager in its custody. The medical doctor, in a statement titled, ‘Alleged sexual harassment: Stop acting like law unto yourself, ex-lawmaker tells Ekiti AG,’ accused Fapohunda of ordering the police to probe a matter that was already in court. Fapohunda had on Tuesday disclosed that the state government ordered the state Commissioner of Police, Tunde Mobayo, to extend probe to the doctor’s wife and pastor of his church; the girl’s brother and mother; male friends who allegedly kept late nights in a beer parlour, and the beer parlor management, among others. But Omotoso, a Peoples Democratic Party chieftain, who alleged that the girl was prompted to lie against him, accused Fapohunda and “his collaborators of using the 14-year-old girl as a tool for political persecution in view of his (AG’s) ambition to become governor at all cost in 2022 and in his desperate attempt to impress the powers that be.” The former lawmaker said, “This is despite the matter already being in both federal and Ekiti State high courts as filed by me and the lawyer to the girl’s mother, respectively, to the knowledge of the AG, since he has been served on Tuesday, June 16th. “It is quite unfortunate and derogatory that our police have been reduced to the point of being ordered around by the AG of Ekiti State, who is the brains behind my political travail and persecution, as known to the general public in several publications and releases on the matter. “It is quite preposterous for the AG, the custodian of the rule of law, to throw caution to the winds in his desperation to nail me at all cost.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com