The Vice-Chancellor, University of Maiduguri, Borno State, Prof. Aliyu Shugaba, speaks to DOGARA BITRUS about the impact of the over decade-long Boko Haram insurgency on the academic activities in the university How much effect has Boko Haram insurgency had on the University of Maiduguri? Well, the Boko Haram insurgency has affected the university in so many ways and up till now we have not come out of it. The lingering effects of pockets of attacks around Maiduguri and the Maiduguri-Damaturu highway is something that had a lot of negative effects on the university but we have long resolved that we are not going to shut down or close the university because of insurgency. The fact that some of our facilities were destroyed by bombings and gunshots was devastating. Sometimes, when the bombs went off, the blasts affected the psychology of our students, making them to live in fear. Some of the bombings took place late in the night or early in the morning and this affected the optimal output of the staff and students. But at some point we made a resolve that we would live with it and continue to discharge our responsibility of teaching, research and community service. Nevertheless, we have people who still nurse the fear of coming to Maiduguri. The business of the university is not ours alone; there are those (regulators) who come for accreditation and other purposes. At some point, these people, including our external examiners, didn’t want to come. We had to look for a way to handle that aspect. The NUC (National Universities Commission) at a point found it difficult to raise an accreditation team to come here. There were many of our staff members who could not stand it anymore, so they left for other universities. We were affected in many ways. Has the university lost any student, member of staff or any property to the insurgency? Of course, yes. Our students have been killed by bombs in different places, an example were the two bomb blasts at the Customs area. We have facilities too that have been devastated; the Agric Engineering laboratory is one example of our facilities destroyed; a building around Works Department that was being used by the security men was also pulled down by the insurgents. Can you tell us the number of students that the university has lost to insurgency? I don’t have the exact statistics now but we have lost quite a number of our students. There was the case of one that was kidnapped along the Maiduguri-Damaturu Road, while returning to school from his home state. He was later beheaded by Boko Haram insurgents. And there are other similar cases that we don’t know about because they have not been reported to us. In some cases, we only noticed the absence of the students and while we were thinking they had withdrawn from the school, we were informed that they had gone missing. These were the kind of things we have experienced in the university. Not long ago you said about 70 professors had left the university as a result of insurgency. How many professors are left in the university now? Going by the American style, a senior lecturer is an assistant professor, a reader is an associate professor and a full professor is a professor. In some universities, they are all referred to as professors, following the American style. In our case, if you factor in the senior lecturers, there are more than 70 (lecturers) who have left. If you include the younger academics, who could not stand the heat of that moment and left for other places, we will be talking about more than 100. Many people (lecturers) have left and many others have died. One of our lecturers was bombed here, around 202 Housing Estate. Another, a doctor with the Faculty of Education, was killed at Gwange. There were others that were killed either on the campus or outside. How has the university community been coping with the loss of such a large number of academic staff? Well, the university really had it tough but as time went on, when the situation started easing off, we had to find a way of managing, we had to also recruit some new staff members, even though on part-time basis, from sister institutions. We also used sabbatical and things like that. We used to have many people having interest in coming to the University of Maiduguri on sabbatical or visitation but the Boko Haram insurgency has limited the number. However, we are doing all we can to survive as a university. Has insurgency also affected the students’ population? Oh yes, it did at some point. From 2011/2012 to 2012/2013 academic sessions, the total number of applications dropped to just about 3,000 or even below for both UTME and Direct Entry. However,  by 2014/2015 session the numbers started picking up. We started getting over 5,000 applications. By 2015/2016 session the number of applications for admission was about 65,000 and the number has continued to increase. As I speak to you, we have a large number of requests for admissions and our admission quota is just about 10,000. And that was even after we requested for an increase in quota to be able to accommodate the large numbers that are coming to us. For MBBS alone, we’ve been receiving about 5,000 applications right from 2015; and we can only select just about 150 applicants from that number and sometimes it is not even all the 150 that we admit because if there are students repeating the course, we have to subtract the number of the repeating students from the 150, then we admit the balance. But I want to tell you that from the most recent statistics from the National Universities Commission, we have the highest number of students (among universities) in the entire federation. We have a student population of about 75,000. How did you achieve this despite the Boko Haram insurgency scare in the state? Well, the secret behind it is that we have remained resolute as a university to continue even in the face of terror. And not only that, University of Maiduguri is known for academic excellence and we are always ahead of most Nigerian universities in terms of academic calendar. For instance, our students are already taking their second semester examinations for the 2019/2020 academic session, to be followed by the 2020/2021.  Despite the prolonged ASUU strike and the COVID-19 enforced lockdown, we have not cancelled any session. Many other institutions had to cancel the 2019/2020 session; some other universities are now in the first semester of the 2019/2020 session. So, students want to go to institutions where they know the calendar is followed strictly.  But I should mention that distant learning students account for a large percentage of our students’ population. Apart from the distant learning centre here in Maiduguri, we have centres in Gombe. We also have a large number of affiliated colleges and all the students undergoing degree programmes in these colleges are our students.  Because we matriculated them, we shall be graduating them and issuing them certificates of the University of Maiduguri. Many important personalities graduated from University of Maiduguri. The number three citizen of this nation is an alumnus of UNIMAID. Two of the former service chiefs were our students. We have about 10 alumni who are now vice-chancellors and about six of others who are DVCs of some second-generation universities. There are five sitting governors as well who are our alumni. We have a large body of alumni even overseas and there are universities and organisations abroad who write to commend our alumni and, we also keep track of all our graduates to know how they are doing in their various fields. These are some of factors that have contributed to the high number of students seeking admission into UNIMAID. Has the university been having all its courses accredited by the NUC? To tell you the truth, we have only one programme that has been denied accreditation. All of our courses have gained full accreditation even those that got interim accreditation after two years gained full accreditation. The only thing is, we are now due for another round of accreditation and we have already addressed the problems that denied us the accreditation for the only outstanding course. Do you think the university requires special security arrangements? Of course, yes. We are spending a large portion of our revenue on maintaining security and that has affected a lot of things in the university. As I speak to you, we have about six companies which we are paying (to provide security services). We also have an arrangement with the military, the Department of State Services, the civil defence, the police and even vigilantes, for them to secure the territory of the university and we are paying for their logistics. But this is gulping a large chunk of our revenue. Until recently, the university had remained exposed. The Federal Government only recently decided to construct a fence around the university. So, we definitely need special security arrangements to be put in place for the University of Maiduguri. We thank God the Federal Government is constructing the fence and they have also acquired and installed CCTV cameras. We can now have a whole view of the university up to 20km from the control room. But we still need to have streetlights to illuminate every side of the university. We have made arrangements for solar power supply but you know these things are capital-intensive, so we need the government to come to our aid, to provide the streetlights because our students cannot go out to some areas at night due to the darkness. Now, we have bomb jammers, which can be used in crowded areas, that can solve a lot of problems; but what about our students moving about in the night? Some of them need to go to the library at night, some to the classroom but some of the areas do not have streetlights. Some northern states not long ago  announced the closure of tertiary institutions due to the new wave of kidnapping of students. Do you think UNIMAID may have to take a similar decision?? Let me inform you that in the 2014/2015 session we had the Boko Haram insurgency at its peak, that was the time we were losing staff members and students but we resolved at a Senate meeting that we were not going to close, that we were not going to waver in the face of the insurgency and we remained. The thing is, if you close the university, it’s like you have succumbed, it’s like you have given them the opportunity to continue to close everywhere but you see, the attitude in Borno is, we have a large number of schools that were burnt –  primary, secondary schools and even tertiary institutions –  and that has denied some people, particularly from the local governments, their rights to education. But you can see the way government has come in fully to reconstruct the schools, so we want to be part of the fight. If you are telling us that education is haram, but it is our own business, do we then succumb to you? We know education is not haram, so we have decided to continue; if they want to kill all of us, let them kill all of us.  But the closure of the institution is not the solution. What we need to do is to continue to seek reinforcement so as to completely block those areas where these people (insurgents) may come in. If we succumb and we keep closing institutions, we will only be emboldening them. Because after you close one institution, they (insurgents) will move to the next institution and then move to the next one and before you know it, you would have closed all the institutions. Are we then helping the country or playing along with the insurgents and the kidnappers? I think we just have to resolve to continue to do our business and to continue to fight until maybe we can come to a standstill but I don’t believe that closing the university or any institution is a solution. The government must live up to its responsibility of providing adequate security to stop all these things. But it not a job only for the government, even the people should be part of the fight. It will be dangerous too if we leave everything to the military, because the military alone cannot fight the war. It is something that we all have to put our heads together. If anything affects the University of Maiduguri today, it will affect the whole of Maiduguri, Borno and the entire country, so we have to find a way of coming together to stop this, rather than just say the VC should close the university. In 2017, the Minister of Education came here with the intention of closing the university but when he saw the resolve in us to keep the university open and  continue with our mandate of teaching, research and community services he decided to let us be.  Do you know that if the university was closed at that time, it may not have been reopened by now? So, the best thing for us is to provide adequate security to checkmate these elements. Don’t you think your resolve is exposing the students to unnecessary risk? Everybody is exposed everywhere. If you close the university, where are the students going? They are going home and in the process of going to their various homes they may be kidnapped. Why do you think we decided against closing the school in the 2014/2015 session? There are about five roads leading out of Maiduguri, one goes to Gamboru Ngala, one goes to Monguno side, one goes to Bama and all of these lead outside this country. The one to Gamboru Ngala can lead you to Chad Republic, still from Gamboru Ngala and Bama you can go to Cameroon. The one that leads to Damboa, Biu, Bauchi was also closed. The only road that was opened was the Maiduguri-Damaturu-Kano Road and that was the time Boko Haram insurgents were harvesting whatever they could harvest in terms of people in their youthful age with a lot of energy. So, if we had closed the university and ask the students to go, they would have to take this dangerous road where Boko Haram insurgents are kidnapping and killing; they could burn a whole vehicle containing passengers. If we had closed the university at that time and some of these students, particularly those from Bama, Biu, Adamawa State, those from Gamboru Ngala, those from this side and those from Kano, you are now sending them out of the university and you put them on the dangerous roads, they can be taken advantage of by the Boko Haram insurgents. So, it means by closing the university, you are delivering to the Boko Haram a large number of students in their thousands. That will be a very big harvest for them. What is your biggest concern as the VC of UNIMAID? First and foremost, my biggest concern is the issue of insecurity we have suffered in this university for over a decade; and we have always been hoping that this thing will come to an end. But up till now it has not come to an end. We have also discovered that we have to learn to live with whatever situation we found ourselves, so, while living with that challenge we are also facing another challenge. I’ve just told you that we have spent over N300,000,000 to address this insecurity every year and yet, we are still talking about insecurity being the biggest challenge. It is also due to insecurity that we did not have electricity for almost two years at a point in time and we were buying diesel to power our generators. Till now, the situation has not improved as Borno does not have light and we have to power the hostels for the students to be able to read at night. There are certain things I will not want to disclose here but let me tell you, the corruption that has eaten quite a lot of the fabrics of this country is one thing that is making the university to have a difficult time. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com