The Chairman, Topdeal College & 3G Educational Services, Ikorodu, Lagos, Mr Oladeji Akinola, has called on the government to protect and create an enabling environment for the girl child to thrive. Akinola said this at a two day seminar titled, ‘Mathematics of a female child’ and ‘The anatomy of a boy child, organised by the school  for  teenagers. Issues around, self-esteem, goal setting, value clarification, love/relationship, sexual and mental health, sexually transmitted diseases and abuse were discussed at the seminar. Akinola also enjoined parents to be watchful over their children, especially the girl child. “The parents are the first custodians of girls, the protection of the girl child is their primary responsibility, these days, some fathers now abuse their own daughters, mothers should be more vigilant. “We should not give anything to chance. We must not trust our girls with anybody, not even brothers or home teachers. The baby girl should not be exposed; she must always be dressed, with their pants properly worn. “People will deter from such acts when they realise that the government is strict with the penalty for rape. “The government should also create enabling environment for the girl child to excel. Above all, everybody should care for the welfare of the girl child.” He also said that efforts should be made to positively build the self-esteem of the girl child, adding that some of the issues affecting girls were early marriage, early child birth, poor sanitation and poverty. “The family needs to help build the self-esteem of the girl child and not ridicule her or see her as a lesser being. The girl child is a winner if given the same opportunity as the boy child, they should not be discriminated against, Akinola said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com