On Thursday, June 17, 2021, would most likely have started like every other day as people launched into the day with renewed zest, drive and determination to end the week on a productive and happier note. However, the later hours of the day completely altered the positive expectations. At about 10:32 pm that Thursday, leading media platforms reported that a Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG) tanker exploded at OPIC Plaza on Mobolaji Bank Anthony Way, besides Sheraton Hotels and Towers Ikeja. This unfortunate incident saw no fewer than 13 persons sustaining various degrees of injuries and about 25 cars destroyed. According to Ibrahim Farinloye, Acting Zonal Coordinator, South-West Zonal Office, National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), the explosion resulted in a fire outbreak that travelled engulfed the premises of Ogun State Property Investment Company (OPIC) Plaza besides Sheraton Hotels, which houses different commercial outfits including a Chinese Restaurant. The fire, which was put out at about 12.30 am, by concerted efforts of five fire trucks from the Lagos State Fire Service and two trucks from the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency Response Unit, considerably damaged both lives and properties in the vicinity. The case of explosions and fire incidents is fast becoming a recurring decimal. Between January and September 2020, there were over 60 recorded fires across several states in Nigeria. The last quarter of the same year saw two major pipeline explosions in Lagos State, which claimed the lives of 21 people, and over 100 buildings destroyed. With these alarming data, one would believe that there should be a practical solution to prevent these unfortunate events. However, these reoccurrences still resulted from incidents of recklessness in the handling of highly inflammable materials such as diesel or fuel leakage from a moving car. In other words, there are walking incident triggers everywhere around, endangering even the sanest and most careful people. Although one cannot effectively predict or prevent such risks from occurring, no one can rightly dictate the consequent results that follow certain ordeals, especially the impact on one’s finances. This edition of this article series highlights significant lessons to be gleaned from the recent fire accident and actions. 1. You do not see the accident coming
The reality of life is that we cannot precisely predict the next fatal incident, and this is made worse in this clime where it is considered inhuman to expect negative things to happen. No one wakes up in the morning and just predict a fire incident that will claim not only lives but also the sweats and years of hard work reduced to ashes within minutes. No one expects the psychological, emotional torture and financial implications on the victim. Though no one sees accidents like these fire and explosions coming, the hard truth is that we start every day expecting the best of opportunities to come our way, but then tragedies happen regardless. 2. Anyone can be caught in it
Just as opportunities do not discriminate whom it comes to, tragedies do not select their victims, either. Everyone is on the same exposure basket, both the rich and the less privileged alike. For instance, on the night of this sad event, different individuals from various socio-economic background were equally exposed. We had the movers and shakers heading home after sealing a deal to the artisans, exhausted from the day’s work and head home when they all got caught up in the accident. 3. Only the paranoid survives
Andy Grove, founder, and former CEO of Intel Corporations, wrote in his best-seller, “Only the Paranoid Survive”, lessons to be learnt from a moment of a nightmare when a leader quickly adapts or fall by the wayside. With perennial events of explosions and fires occurring non-stop in our cities and neighbourhoods, claiming innocent lives, and destroying properties, there is a need to adapt to these moments of nightmares to ensure we have mitigating plans to prevent us from falling victim or have recovery plans in the event we are unfortunately caught up in one. This “paranoia” saved the lives of our beneficiaries, helps ensure medical care in an accident or get compensated for properties destroyed. Indeed, being paranoid means being in a state of perpetual preparedness to overcome tragedies and being able to answer critical questions like, “who do I turn to in such circumstances for help?”. This is where insurance comes in as the risk solution. Insurance provides the guaranteed succour in periods like these. It will give you the needed peace of mind, knowing that come what may, you, your family, and your business are protected by a pre-arranged compensation to mitigate against a financial loss when the worse happens. Leadway Assurance Company, Nigeria’s foremost insurer, boasts five decades of an unrivalled reputation for supporting individuals and businesses to recover from tragedies and accidents. With various innovative insurance products designed to cater for every insurable risk, Leadway Assurance provides financial protection for those you love and your valuable assets. To find out more about how Leadway can protect your households and businesses, please visit www.leadway.com or call the Leadway Assurance customer care helpline on 01-2800-700. You can also send an email to Lcs@leadway.com for professional advisory or request a call back by visiting www.leadway.com/call-me. We are within your reach on our social media outlets – @LeadwayAssurance on Facebook & Instagram, @Leadwayinsure on Twitter. You can send a DM, and we would revert with all the information you require.