The Ebonyi State Command of the Nigerian Police Force, on Monday, paraded 60 criminal suspects in the state. According to the police, the suspects were arrested on grounds of conspiracy, armed robbery, murder, arson, among other crimes. The police said they were responsible for attacks on police stations and the killing of its personnel in the state. The Commissioner of Police in the state, CP Aliyu Garba, stated this while parading the suspects at the command’s headquarters in Abakaliki. He said rifles, live tortoise, charms, arms and ammunition were recovered from the suspects. He noted that the hoodlums were also responsible for the destruction of facilities belonging to the Independent National Electoral Commission in the state. According to CP Garba, “At about 1830hrs of 23/5/2021, while acting on credible information, we suspected that the criminals were meeting at Agubia Ikwo in the resident of one Ebube Ivom ‘m’ age 31years, their suspected Sector Commander. The said meeting had in attendance a Cross River State-based native doctor (Ezemuo), who was invited to fortify members of the group with marks on different parts of their bodies as antidotes to bullets in preparation to attack Onueke Divisional Headquarters and INEC office both in Ezza South Local Government Area of the State by 8.30pm of the same day, 23th May 2021. “On the strength of the information, the command swiftly deployed a team of Police operatives in collaboration with neighbourhood watch of Ikwo. In the process, thirty-nine male suspects, made up of indigenes of Ebonyi State and two non-indigenes from neighbouring Abia State were arrested and large quantities of Juju charms were recovered from them together with living creatures such as tortoise and hawk. “Eight of these suspects made useful statements to the Police, while one of them, Elom Daniel, ‘m’ age 17 years took Police operatives to their hideout at Agbaja-Izzi community in Abakaliki Local Government Area of the state, where the owner of the house escaped leaving behind his wife and a child. Upon intensive search of the house/premises, the following items were recovered; “One (1) Ak 47 riffle with thirty-five (35) live ammunition, two (2) AR Riffles with eight (8) live ammunition, eight (8) magazines, two (2) locally fabricated Improvised Explosive (tested and certified), five (5) machetes, one Police belt and some Juju charms. “Elom Daniel narrated that he specialised in drawing the map of any planned area to be attacked by the group before execution; he further admitted that the meeting at their State Sector Commander’s resident was to attack Onueke Divisional Headquarters, INEC office and Ebube-Agu Security Outfit on the date mentioned above. “Daniel further stated that his group was responsible for the attack on the Army checkpoint at Amasiri in Afikpo North Local Government Area on 26th March 2021, where two Army officers were killed and their rifles were taken away. He also claimed that his group was responsible for the attack on Central Police Station, Abakaliki during the #ENDSARS protests, where a Police Inspector and one other were killed and the Inspector’s rifle carted away. One of the AK 47 rifles recovered when crossed checked was found to be the same Police rifle that was stolen by the hoodlums from the late Inspector at the Central Police Station, Abakaliki during the said #ENDSARS protests. “Daniel further narrated that his gang was also responsible for the attack at Onueke Police Station on 8th January 2021 which claimed the lives of three policemen and the attack on Nigeria Police Force Animal branch Personnel attached to Agricultural Quarantine checkpoint, along Donkey Market Ezzangbo in Ohaukwu L.G.A of the state on 23rd March 2021 where two (2) assault rifles were carted away by the hoodlums. The two rifles are among the recovered rifles.”