The Nigeria Correctional Service, Ondo State Command, has said that an #EndSARS protester, who recently gave birth to a baby boy in its custody, was charged with conspiracy, arson, riotous assembly, stealing, and malicious damage. The PUNCH had earlier reported that 18-year-old Kemisola Oguniyi was arrested, alongside three others – Ayodele Bukunmi, Ojo Samuel and Ani Obinna, during the #EndSARS protests last October and were remanded in the correctional centre in Ondo. A statement on Thursday signed by the Public Relations Officer and Legal Officer of the Ondo State Command, Ogundare Babatunde, said that Oguniyi was two-month pregnant when she was remanded in the facility. The statement was titled, ‘Press Statement On Kemisola Ogunniyi: The Fact In Issue’. It read, “The attention of the Nigerian Correctional Service, Ondo State Command has been drawn to the viral picture of a nursing mother with her new born baby being spread on social media platforms with malicious intent. “The lady in question was remanded in the female custodial facility by a court of competent jurisdiction on the 24th November, 2020, for conspiracy, arson, riotous assembly, stealing, and malicious damage and the matter was subsequently adjourned to 8th December, 2020 for hearing, and further adjourned to 9th March, 2021. “She was two months pregnant when she was remanded in the facility and all necessary medical cares and legal attention needed was accorded accordingly within the ambit of the operational orders of the service. Her families and legal representatives were given access to visit her as well. “She fell into labour on Tuesday 15th June, 2021, and she was immediately moved to the Ondo State Basic Health Centre for delivery and she delivered her baby on the 16th June, 2021 around noon. “She was hale and hearty with the baby and subsequently discharged and was taken back to the facility for further care. “It is very expedient for the general public to know that the Nigeria Correctional Service will not unlawfully hold down any inmate without the order of court hence, the need to disregard the viral pictures and deceitful information emanating in the social media in other to discredit the service. “While assuring the public of the commitment of officers and men of the command to the care and support for inmates, the State Controller Barr. S D Kinane wishes to state that the service is community friendly and will not act contrary to the operational orders and constitution of the federal republic of Nigeria. “The inmate and her baby are hale and hearty in the facility pending the determination of her case before the court of competent jurisdiction.”