Employees of Wema Bank Plc has said that it is building a pool of funds for underprivileged women empowerment to expand their scope of business under the auspices of ‘Project Ferry’. It said in a statement titled ‘Wema Bank employees empower underprivileged women traders in ferry community’ on Monday that this was part of its corporate social investment initiative. “Through the salary for love initiative, employees of the bank in the Lagos region led by the project champions selected 47 underprivileged women at ferry community in Oworoshoki, Lagos for the provision of seed funds,” it stated. Speaking at the empowerment/financial literacy ceremony where debit cards loaded with cash were presented to the beneficiaries, the Regional Manager, Lagos Mainland, Mrs Aramide Awosanya, said the bank was interested in helping them to grow their businesses and succeed. She advised the beneficiaries to separate the seed fund grants from the money for social activities, reminding them that it is for business expansion. Awosanya said, “The funds contributed by our employees from their salaries are not for buying clothes, shoes or for organising parties. “Rather, the money is to assist you to grow your businesses, make more profit and become very successful. So, don’t spend it frivolously. “When we see you again some months from now, we want to see changes, we want to see progress, and we want to see signs of prosperity.” Also speaking at the event, the Head, Retail Segment of the bank, Mr Mudashiru Hakeem, described the bank and its employees as good corporate citizens who take delight in the wellbeing and success of the people in their host communities. She advised them to keep good accounts of their daily transactions, warning against spending both capital and profit. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com