The Nasarawa State Government has insisted that it will not borrow funds to pay civil servants, following the refusal of organised labour to sign a Memorandum of Action for the implementation of outstanding promotions and other issues raised by the unions. The Chairman, Civil Service Commission in the state, Musa Dangana, disclosed this during a press conference in Lafia on Friday after an emergency expanded executive council meeting for an update on the resolutions reached, invoking a no-work-no-pay policy for workers in the state. Dangana stated that the government was concerned by the misleading information the labour unions had been circulating with the intent to cause disaffection between the government and law-abiding workers in the state. He explained that organised labour had continued to harass workers from gaining access to their offices since the strike was declared by the unions. According to him, the information given to the public by the unions that the Nasarawa State Government receives an average of N4.5bn monthly from the Federation Account Allocation is false. He said, “Having appraised the situation and the negative tendencies it portends to the vision and mission of the present administration in meeting the yearnings and aspirations of the people, the meeting resolved that the government shall not be distracted from its commitment to embark on meaningful projects. “In view of its negative impact, the government shall, on no account, borrow to pay salaries, considering that doing so will further burden the state economy and the attendant consequences of mortgaging the future of the state. “Government maintains its stand on the no-work-no-pay order. Accordingly, salaries for the month of June 2021 shall be paid based on the attendance register. Therefore, willing workers are enjoined to resume duties immediately.” Dangana called on the people of the state to continue to be supportive to the policies and programmes of the administration of Governor Abdullahi Sule while assuring workers in the state that the administration’s doors would remain open for continuous negotiations. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com