Aggrieved traders at the Iwo Road Shopping Complex in Ibadan, Oyo State, on Thursday, narrated how armed park managers swooped on one Rahmon Azeez, stoned and stabbed him to death in a free-for-all on Wednesday evening. The aggrieved traders, who deal in telephone sales and repairs at the complex, were allegedly attacked by drivers said to be members of the Park Management System. The National Union of Road Transport Workers was proscribed in the state in 2019 and replaced with the park managers. The traders, who accused a prominent leader of the park managers of leading the hoodlums, who killed Rahmon and looted their shops, described the union leader as a killer, who should be brought to justice. One of the traders, Akeem Yusuf, told our correspondent that the hoodlums, after killing Rahmon and injuring many others, looted their shops. He added that they came back on Thursday morning and stole the remaining wares left in the shops. Another trader, Mr Kayode Ismail, alleged that soldiers attached to the Operation Burst and some Amotekun Corps personnel were there when the hoodlums invaded the shopping complex and wreak havoc. He said, “The problem started with a complaint that the drivers had blocked the entrance to the shopping complex with their vehicles. Rahmon came and wanted to park his car, but he couldn’t gain access to the complex. He complained and that led to an altercation. “The drivers called the park managers and they attacked the young man. This led to a fight, but some shop owners came to his rescue and the park managers went away and came back later fully armed. “They chased Rahmon and he fled to a side and fell down, and the drivers hurled stones at him. They also stabbed him. You see the big stones at that spot. Those were some of their weapons. They made sure that Rahmon died before they left, while others started breaking our shops to steal our wares and destroy the ones they could not steal. “Where were the policemen and soldiers, who are now milling around now, because the governor is coming? Some of the soldiers and Amotekun personnel were around yesterday (Wednesday) when the hoodlums killed Rahmon? They did not to stop the drivers.” The traders said those, who killed and looted their shops, must be brought to justice for peace to reign. Governor Seyi Makinde and the state Commissioner of Police,  Ngozi Onadeko, as well as officials of the Department of State Services visited the scene to assess the level of destruction. Makinde appealed to the traders not to take the law into their own hands. The governor, who said he grew up in the area, noted that the problem of blocking the entrance to the shopping complex had been there for a long time and asked the traders to nominate two representatives to meet with government officials on how his administration could assist them. Makinde later said in a statement by his media aide, Taiwo Adisa, “The loss of lives during the incident is unfortunate and should never have happened. “I give you my word that we will ensure that everyone involved in the dastardly act is brought to justice. I have ordered investigation. In the meantime, we will sanitise the area behind Iwo Road, where cultists congregate, and review the Park Management System.” The CP also told the aggrieved traders that the police had begun investigation into the incident and assured them that justice would be served. The angry traders later staged a peaceful protest to the governor’s office after Makinde left the scene, but they were not allowed by policemen to go inside the state secretariat complex at Agodi. The traders had on Wednesday taken Rahmon’s corpse to the secretariat to protest the killing and attack on them. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com