Foremost female Ijaw activist, AnnKio Briggs, has demanded the resignation of the Ijaw National Congress leadership, led by Prof. Benjamin Okaba, for alleged misrepresentation of the Ijaw nation during the June 26 visit to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd) in Abuja. Briggs made the demand in a statement on Tuesday titled, ‘Professor and His Executive Should Not Misrepresent Ijaw Nation.’ According to her, the Ijaw people had lost confidence in Okaba and other officials of the apex Ijaw socio-cultural organisation “to pilot the affairs of Ijaw people of today, tomorrow and the future of our children and their children.” She warned that failure by them to quit would result in the formation of a parallel pan-Ijaw platform. She argued that Okaba and his delegation informed Buhari that the Ijaw ethnic nationality was interested in remaining with ‘One Nigeria’ contrary to the age-long agitation for self-determination by Ijaw people. She insisted that after reading through Okaba’s address, “Ijaw people disagree with you, when you state categorically and assured President Buhari that Ijaw people do not desire to leave Nigeria and believe in one united Nigeria. Nigeria is not, and has never been a united Nigeria.” Briggs said, “If INC is representing the people of the Ijaw ethnic nationality, INC should stand by the demand for self-determination for Ijaw. “When did Ijaw people gather to tell INC to go and tell President Buhari that Ijaw people believe in the united nation of Nigeria? “Which Ijaw people, from which of the clans of the three zones of Ijaw nation, told you that Ijaw nation will remain one Nigeria? “The entire executive of the INC should resign as Ijaw nation has no confidence in the executive. “Failure to resign, the Ijaws have a right to create another Ijaw organisation that will serve the Ijaw today, tomorrow and our grand children’s future.” She described the visit to Buhari as “a waste of time and an embarrassment to Ijaw nation as it was not undertaken in the interest of the INC and the Ijaw people.” Kidnappers’ driver to die by firing squad for Bayelsa doctor, bizman’s abduction. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com