Human rights activist, Aisha Yesufu, has described as “insensitive”, the civil war analogy by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), that he will treat young people misbehaving in the country in the language they understand. She made this known in a video statement on Wednesday while reacting to a statement made by the President on Tuesday after meeting with the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, Mahmood Yakubu; and other electoral commissioners in Aso Villa, Abuja, over the series of attacks on INEC facilities, police stations and other public infrastructure in the South-Eastern part of the country. The PUNCH had reported that Buhari said, “In the area of security, we have changed the Service Chiefs and the Inspector-General, and we are demanding that they rise fully to the challenges confronting us. There must be zero tolerance for all those bent on destroying our country by promoting crime and insurrection! “Many of those misbehaving today are too young to be aware of the destruction and loss of lives that occurred during the Nigerian Civil War. Those of us in the fields for 30 months, who went through the war, will treat them in the language they understand.” Buhari’s statement which was also tweeted sparked outrage on social media with some Nigerians criticising the President while some said the President sounded firm in his warning against perpetrators of violence in the South-East. Reacting on Wednesday, Yesufu said, “My name is Aisha Somtochukwu Yesufu. I am Igbo, a threat to the Igbo people is a threat to me. Any attack on the Igbo people is an attack on me. Any malignment of the Igbo people is a malignment to me. We are all Nigerians and no Nigerian is more Nigerian than the others. “The government must ensure that it deploys its resources and its apparatus equally to every section of this country. “I totally condemn the tweet from the President where the President is threatening the Igbo people. He is threatening them with what happened in 1967. What happened in 1967 what a genocide, a crime against humanity and it must never ever be allowed to happen again.” Continuing, the activist said, “For a President to come out today and use 1967 as a yardstick to threaten people with what happened then, with the 30 months of gruesomeness, with the 30 months of heinousness, with the 30 months of atrocities that were meted out on human beings, on fellow brothers and sisters, on children in this country, is inhumane, it is insensitive, it is callous, and it is unspeakable.”