Media personality and actress, Stephanie Coker-Aderinokun, has said she is elated about her new chieftaincy title as the Yéyé Akinruiyiwa of Owu Kingdom, Ogun State, because she had always wanted a connection with her roots. In an interview with Saturday Beats, she said, “I feel very honoured by the title and I am very proud of my husband for all the good deeds he has done and foundation he has laid in Abeokuta. It is an honour for him to be recognised by  former president Olusegun Obasanjo. When they asked Chief Obasanjo why he danced so much at the ceremony, he said ‘because this is a son I am very proud of. I’m dancing to honour him because I and my family are happy with him’. I feel the title is also part of my destiny because I have always been in touch with my Nigerian heritage and culture, even though I did not grow up here. I moved to Nigeria on my own. It was like God wanted me to come home and have an impact on people. It is also important that we all uphold our tradition and culture even though we have become more westernised. We should never forget the beauty in our heritage and culture as Africans. “I am the kind of person that speaks things into existence. From a young age, I knew what I wanted and the type of person I wanted to settle down with. I also had role models that helped to shape my dreams. I knew I did not want to always be in the house, and I understand the kind of person I prayed for.” When asked if she was scared about the traditional rites that accompanied chieftaincy titles, she said “I think it is important to ask questions. One can ask why certain things have to be done. But, ultimately as a child of God, there is no cause for alarm. Because I have a religion I believe in does not mean I would discredit culture. I am a strong believer in the Yoruba culture. I did not believe that anyone could do evil to me. There was nothing to be scared or worried about.” Coker also added that being married to an ambitious person did not mean that one would abandon one’s career or ambitions.  She said, “I intend to juggle my husband’s political career and mine together. My husband is very supportive and he always wants me to follow my dreams and not neglect my goals because I am supporting him. I don’t think that having a chieftaincy title or being in the political sphere is enough reason for one to leave one’s career. Thankfully, my husband is a liberal person.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com