Dear ma, The Lord will strengthen you now and always. I read your posts as many times as I come online. I’m elated that we still have people of great personality as yours, a woman who still believes in celibacy, decency, holiness and righteousness. I remember when I was in secondary school, I vowed I was going to get married as a virgin, God was truly amusing me then. He revealed things to me like no man’s business. But years later I lost it and it was tough. The adverse effect of losing my virginity coupled with the punishment that came afterwards, was indescribable! I’ve never seen a thing like that. God dealt with me like a mother beating her child with serious anger. However, I learnt from His reprimands. It took years for me to gain my feet back but while I was in that process I pleaded for mercy and mercy truly prevailed. I made a covenant with God not to mess myself up again. Having an intimate relationship with God is truly the best thing that can ever happen to anyone. Please don’t stop encouraging us. God bless you ma! Joan Dear ma, I was emotionally down and crying until I saw your article “How to get over the guy that’s been making you cry!” I must say you are highly-spiritual and amazing. May the Almighty God keep showering you with supernatural blessings in Jesus name! Funmilayo Dear Temilolu, I read the 33-year-old virgin lady’s story and I am happy that I have found someone still a virgin in her 30’s asides from me who is 42 years old and my younger sister who was born in 1982. However, I am beginning to get concerned because guys come and leave. My mum is terribly worried. At times I feel it’s because I don’t have a job or good health but the truth is anyone that comes wants to sleep with me before marriage and I end up chasing them away. I have prayed, fasted, sowed seeds. I have good character, yet I am still waiting. I need your counsel. Princess Adesuwa My very precious Princess Adesuwa, No matter what anyone thinks about your status at your age, you are blessed amongst women. You and your sister are spiritual titans akin to a deity except you haven’t been activating the power of God in you which I believe the devil is cashing in on to tie you down, delay you in the valley of life and deny you of things your spirituality and the magnificent presence of God inside of you should naturally magnetise to you! How can you be unspoilt, uncontaminated and full of virtue and not have a good job even if you haven’t found the man you think you should settle down with? You can’t imagine the type of power you carry, what it can avail you and how much you can command life to suit you! I know what I’m talking about! And if you don’t take advantage of your wholeness and the power of God residing inside of you- the devil would ensure you regret abstaining from defiling God’s temple all the while! You ought to have become a walking wonder- a city set on a hill that the world cannot but marvel at by now as a result of the light in you even if you’ve not found the right spouse! There are chances your life and that of your sister could be under a satanic attack. However, the good thing is that you have the supernatural power of God in you ready to give you victory in one fell swoop! I’d suggest you join a genuine deliverance ministry, resume there while job-hunting, get fired up, get rid of every strange battle and have your spirit ignited to see the wonderful wonders ahead of you and how to recover any lost and wasted years! I tell you, you’d be pleasantly surprised at what would happen in the next six months! I know what I’m talking about! You practically have the world at your feet and I must congratulate you because God owes you two nothing but the very best and you will receive all before the end of this year in Jesus name! You will not only marry a better version of your dream man, God will give you multiple births! I am very sure of this and look forward to reading your testimony! You’re absolutely wonderful!!! May God bless you and showcase you to the world in Jesus name! I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @ Okeowo Temilolu. Are you still engaging in pre-marital sex? Each act devalues you! Your wonders are waiting to start. God is waiting for you to become a secondary virgin! You are most welcome on board the chastity campaign train and Girls Club is open for all girls and ladies. Please text your name, age, school or occupation and state of domicile to 07086620576. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com