Niger Delta ex-militant, Chief Government Ekpemupolo, popularly known as Tompolo, on Saturday revealed the outcome of the recent meeting he held with the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio. Tompolo, who is also the Ibe-Ebidouwei of Ijaw nation, vowed that he “cannot be compromised by money and other material things.” In a statement , Tompolo said he remained resolute on the seven-day ultimatum he earlier issued to the Federal Government to constitute a substantive board for the Niger Delta Development Commission “to avert a total breakdown of law and order that will equally affect crude oil exploration and exploitation activities in the region.” He, however, said he welcomed the consultative meeting comprising “the revered traditional rulers from the region; the Delta State Government; the Ijaw National Congress, led by its President, Prof Benjamin Okaba; leaders of the Itsekiri, Urhobo, Isoko, Ndokwa and other nationalities with the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Akpabio, in attendance, at the traditional headquarters of Gbaramatu Kingdom, Oporoza town on Thursday, June 3rd, 2021”. He said the outcome of the meeting had already been made known to the public by the minister who, according to him, “promised profusely to start the process of the constitution and inauguration of the substantive board of the NDDC immediately (from Friday, June 4, 2021), and that he should be allowed to drive the process to an end on or before the end of June, 2021”. According to Tompolo, there were lots of concerns expressed by Nigerians on the matter within the period, “hence machineries were put in place for consultations among Nigerians, especially from highly placed individuals and organisations from the Niger Delta region, including the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio.” The Niger Delta ex-militant reiterated that as he had earlier expressed, he “came into this matter because of love for the region and Nigeria.” Tompolo said, “I make bold to say I cannot be compromised by money and other material things. However, the only thing one can do for Nigeria in these trying times, where all the six geopolitical zones are in turmoil, is to pray to God for peace and tranquillity, particularly for the economic hub of the country, the Niger Delta region. “As it stands now, I have accepted the outcome of the meeting reluctantly. It is pertinent to state at this juncture that I do not want anything to disrupt the relative peace we are enjoying in the region. It was on this premise that I accepted the outcome of the meeting. “The ultimate goal in this issue is for the minister to abide by the promise he has made to start the process of constituting the NDDC board now. Government shenanigans must be put away in this matter as constituting the NDDC board is very dear to the heart of the people of the region.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com