Nigerians on Twitter have questioned the inability of the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to arrest sponsors of banditry and terrorism in Nigeria. This was after the Federal Government announced the arrest of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu. Immediately after the arrest was announced, many Nigerians took to Twitter to express their displeasure at the government’s lack of success in tackling banditry and terrorism in Nigeria. One @MrOdanz said, “The arrest of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu just confirms one thing: The Buhari Government has all the resources needed to arrest those behind kidnapping, banditry and terrorism in Nigeria. They know exactly where they are and how to get them. But like TY Danjuma said, THEY COLLUDE!! @DemolaRewaju said, “Nnamdi Kanu’s arrest confirms that the Buhari regime can be swift, decisive and methodical when it is motivated – usually by ethnic or religious sentiments.” @AfamDeluxo said, “The federal government can go through the pain and diplomatic brouhaha to arrest Nnamdi Kanu abroad, but couldn’t find Abubakar Shekau who was in Nigeria for over 6 years.” @drpenking said, “It requires a lot of diplomacy and technicalities to arrest someone in a foreign land. Nigeria went through all that to arrest Nnamdi Kanu of IPOB yet Boko Haram, bandits & killer herdsmen have been terrorising us for eternity and we can’t arrest them. The truth is so glaring.” @firstladyship wondered why Islamic cleric, Sheikh Ahmad Gumi, is still roaming free. He said, “So the Buhari federal government could swiftly arrest IPOB leader Nnamdi Kanu in the UK, & extradite him to Nigeria. But Sheikh Gumi is still roaming freely with bandits, granting interviews, & asking for millions of Naira & amnesty for terrorists. ONE NIGERIA INDEED!!” Some were of the opinion that Kanu’s arrest won’t stop the agitation for Biafra. According to @Neche201, “Re-arresting Mazi Nnamdi Kanu only doubles our quest for freedom!” @UgwunnaEjikem said, “As I said before, you can arrest Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, heck even kill him but you cannot kill the idea “BIAFRA”. Take him out and two more will replace him, the common Igbo man is now so disillusioned with ‘One Nigeria’, it’s not about MNK anymore.” However, some Nigerians commended the arrest of the IPOB leader, with one @nicholasibekwe saying, “The West is not stupid. You are hiding in the UK, later ran to hide in Germany while preaching hate and spreading terror back home and you think you will not be picked up and handed over to your country to face justice?” @Waspapping_ said, “The terrorist and warmonger, Nnamdi Kanu has finally been arrested. Like my friend yellows said, For years, he has been the most dangerous person in this country after Shekau.” He added, “Nnamdi Kanu was living comfortably abroad and wearing designers like Fendi while pushing his gullible people in Nigeria to War.”