The Khalifa of Tijaniyya Movement in Nigeria, Lamido Sanusi, on Friday visited the Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji, as part of his visit to leaders of the Islamic movement in the country. Sanusi, a former Emir of Kano, was recently confirmed as  the leader of the Islamic sect by its Supreme Leader, Mahi Nyass, when the former emir visited him in Senegal. The leader of the Islamic sect said he decided to begin his tour of the country by meeting with leaders of the group from the South-West. He said the sect was known for promoting peace, brotherhood and collaboration even with non-Muslims. Speaking in a short interview with journalists after the visit, Sanusi declined to comment on national issues but said he was in Ibadan to promote peace, security and poverty alleviation among the people. He said, “ We are here to talk about peace, we are here to talk about working together with other Nigerians for peace and security and to also contribute to poverty alleviation and I will like to restrict myself to that. “Tijaniyya Movement, for example, has a rough estimate of about 50 million members across the country. If that population can focus on empowerment on income generation, that is a major contribution and that is what  I am here for.” Sanusi, who is a former governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, said the  Tijaniyyah sect  was the largest Muslim group all over the country, including the South-West. He said he was happy that he succeeded his late grandfather as the Emir of Kano and he was now also succeeding him as the Khalifa. The Olubadan prayed for Sanusi’s success and described his appointment as a well calculated one. He said, “ We are happy that a global citizen like you was chosen.  We will follow you. Ideas rule the world and you are a man of ideas.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com