The National Industrial Court sitting in Abuja on Wednesday struck out the suit that was brought before it by a legal practitioner and human rights activist, Daniel Makolo, against the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola over the extension of the tenure of the Comptroller General of Nigeria Immigration Service, Mohammed Babandede. Justice Olufunke Anuwe, while delivering the ruling on a notice of preliminary objection, held that Makolo lacked the locus standi to institute the case in court. According to Justice Anuwe, the claimant has not shown how his right has been infringed on as a result of the extension of the tenure of the Comptroller General of the NIS. The judge also stated that he failed to disclose any violation of his right as he was a dismissed staff member of the NIS. Consequently, the court held that the suit was “incompetent and the absence of locus standi on the part of the claimant stripped this court of jurisdiction.” Makolo had sued the Aregbesola, who is also the Chairman of the Civil Defence, Correctional, Fire, and Immigration Service Board, the Director/Secretary of CDCFIB, Mohammed Babandede, the Nigeria Immigration Service, Head of Service of the Federation, Federal Civil Service Commission, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, National Security Adviser to the President, and the Attorney General of the Federal as first to 11th defendants, respectively. In the suit marked NICN/ABJ/196/2020, Makolo had challenged the tenure extension of the Comptroller General of the NIS. Speaking with journalists after the court’s sitting, Makolo stated that as a citizen of Nigeria, he was aggrieved and has the right to complain when the laws are being breached. He stated that the continued stay of the Comptroller General in office was wrong. “In the interest of the law, we should test it (the decision) upstairs. We shall test the judgment at the Court of Appeal and I hope the court will give speed to the case,” he added. Also speaking with journalists, lawyer to the NIS, A. Adamu, expressed his satisfaction with the court’s decision. He said, “For this case, we believe it is a waste of the time of the court.” Responding to the intention of the claimant to appeal, Adamu said, “We will be ready; we will meet him at the Court of Appeal.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com