Polaris Bank has said that its newly-launched digital banking platform, called ‘VULTe’, is a quick self-service innovation aimed at delivering greater value and benefits to existing and new customers of the bank. The Chief Digital Officer, Polaris Bank, Dele Adeyinka, said this in a statement on Sunday. While highlighting the unique features and benefits of VULTe, he said that “VULTe is a convenient, easy and quick self-service digital solution, which allows users (new and existing) access to a range of banking services hard to get elsewhere.” The services provided, he added, included account opening and wallet (naira and dollars), airtime and data top-up; fund account; funds transfer; bills payment; pay day loan; lifestyle and events; Automated Teller Machine and branch/agent locator. Others were viewing of transactions history, generation of bank statements, profile settings like hide/show balance, hide/show accounts, forgot user ID/password, reset PIN etcetera, and banking services such as limit increase, request card/cheque book, block account/card, etc. “VULTe is built as a platform where value providers and value consumers align with payment as a fundamental medium of exchange,” he said. He added, “VULTe is a new, more stable and robust platform that offers higher availability and transaction success rate for users, and is a fully homegrown digital solution developed internally by Polaris Bank’s digital banking and information technology teams. “It is Omni-channel; it is accessible with same credentials and consistent user experience on both web and mobile platforms. “It is more flexible and scalable, and guarantees better user experience because it offers seamless onboarding and usage. “It is 100 per cent self-service, hence customers do not have to visit any branch of Polaris Bank before they can onboard unto the platform – either to register – or perform an account opening task. VULTe is the go-to for those that require instant access to loans.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com