A widow and mother of five, Mrs Ifeanyinwa Okechi, has called on the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, and the Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodimma, to help her and her children get justice. The 35-year-old widow, who spoke to our correspondent on Thursday in Ubaha Ngwo village, Etiti Orsu autonomous community, Orsu Local Government Area of the state, accused her brother-in-law, Simeon Okechi, of rendering her and her children homeless. The petty trader told our correspondent that Simeon allegedly destroyed her husband’s six-bedroom bungalow and all the property in the house. She said the brother-in-law, who lives in Benin City, Edo State, was laying claim to the land on which the building was erected, saying his children would build on it. Ifeanyinwa stated, “My husband’s sibling, Simeon, came with some boys last Thursday and destroyed my house and all my belongings. I was in the market when he came. He met my mother, chased her out and started removing the roof and brought the entire structure down and destroyed all my belongings. “He claimed that the land on which the house was built is where his son, who lives abroad, wants to build his house. I have reported the incident at the Orsu Divisional Police Headquarters and I have also told the kingmakers. He was summoned by the community’s leaders and he was given a seven-day ultimatum to provide where my children and I would be sleeping. For now, we are homeless. I want the government to help us get justice.” Our correspondent saw policemen led by the Divisional Police Officer at the site when he visited the woman. Villagers condemned Simeon’s action against his brother’s wife and her children. Our correspondent called Simeon several times on the telephone, but he did not take his calls and had yet to respond to a text message sent to his mobile telephone as of the time of filing this report. The police spokesman in the state, Michael Abattam, said the command was aware of the incident and that police personnel had visited the scene. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com