The Commandant General of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Ahmed Audi, on Tuesday, said the agency had concluded a vulnerability survey on schools across the nation. According to him, the survey is to enable the corps to devise strategies in order to secure schools nationwide. From the survey, Audi revealed that there were over 81,000 schools in the country, out of which over 62,000 were susceptible to attacks, adding that most of the schools were government-owned. He spoke at the maiden commandant general’s conference during which he rolled out operational vehicles and inaugurated 200 housing units for junior and intermediate officers in Abuja. Audi said a female corps’ squad had been established to secure school environments and protect children who had become targets of attacks by bandits and kidnappers. He said, “As part of the achievements of the corps from March 1 till date, we have carried out a vulnerability survey of all schools in the country to enable us to work out strategies to effectively secure our school environment, as part of efforts towards achieving the Safe School Initiative of the Federal Government. “From the survey, we discovered that the nation has over 81,000 schools, but it was very surprising and disturbing that out of this figure, over 62,000 schools are very insecure. “They have no presence of physical security and there is no fence, which shows how vulnerable our children are to any attack. Most of these schools are public schools.” He also hinted that arrangements were in top gear for the deployment of technology solutions for surveillance and monitoring of critical national assets and infrastructure in the country. Audi called for synergy among security agencies in the country and citizens to contain the rising insecurity. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com