Broadcast journalist and blogger, Blossom Martins, whose Facebook and Instagram accounts were recently taken down, tells GODFREY GEORGE she has lost huge economic opportunities Tell us about yourself. My name is Blossom Martins. I am a broadcast journalist. I currently work with Rhythm 94.7, Abuja as an On-Air Personality. I am also a public relations and communication executive, a blogger and a social justice advocate. Your account was recently taken down by Facebook Incorporated. What led to this? On May 10, 2021, a friend of mine reached out to me on Facebook Messenger, telling me about how a friend of his was bedridden because of kidney failure. He said he needed me to help solicit the help of Nigerians as he did not want his friend to die. I asked for a few details of who this person was and he sent me the details on Messenger. The state I saw this person in was so bad and I was moved to use my platform to ask Nigerians to help. What ‘help’ did this person actually need? He had the money to run the surgery, but unfortunately, there was no (kidney) donor. He was given a few weeks to source for donors or risk losing his life. Was that the first time you would put up such a post on your Facebook wall? That was not the first time I would either raise funds or helpe someone who was helpless. It is actually something I am known for on social media. I don’t like seeing people suffer. So, I use the influence I have on these social media platforms to advocate a better living for people who reach out to me and genuinely need some help. What happened when you made this post on Facebook? Nigerians trooped into the comment section to show their sympathy and a few others asked if the donor would be compensated if they decide to donate a kidney. Since I had the details, I responded in the affirmative. After a while, I could no longer reply or make comments on the post. Perhaps, it was taken down. I felt it was maybe because Facebook misunderstood the post, so I tried to log in again, but I couldn’t. My account was restricted. I managed to write an appeal to explain to Facebook Inc that it was a harmless post, seeking help for someone who indeed needed it. Instead, my Instagram page was blocked, and later on, disabled by Facebook Inc. I wrote appeals upon appeals, explaining all that had transpired and asking that my account be restored, but it has been weeks now and nothing has been done. Do you think your post violated Facebook rules? Facebook blocks and restricts accounts or even takes down posts for very trivial reasons these days. People had told me this, but I didn’t take it too seriously, since my social media accounts have always been used for campaigning good causes. I have used my platform to raise millions of naira for sick people, widows and orphans. I also use it to help mediate relationships between families and broken homes and see how we can help mend those broken bridges. So far, we have recorded huge success in all these endeavours. I try not to go against any community standard or violate any rule of any of these social media platforms, so it came as a huge shock to me Facebook would take down my account. How long have you had this account? I have built this account since 2009. It was 12 years this year. 12 solid years! It is amazing how Facebook would just take decisions without considering the parties involved and dutifully checking if there actually was a need for the action they took. What ways has this affected you and your brand? A few of my friends and I formed a community on Facebook called Ghen Ghen. We use this to advocate for the poor, voiceless and vulnerable in the society. Ghen Ghen Community is a place where people come to find help. We are like a family. We look out for each other. We have widows on our payroll; we also have kids we pay school fees for per term. We basically help people who have lost all hope to find a reason to keep believing. During festive seasons, we give bags of rice to widows and orphans. We also help resolve relationship and marriage problems through our mediating sessions, which are rendered free of charge. This account was also taken down by Facebook. So, everything I’ve built over the years has gone down the drain. It is a really sad situation. I represent a lot of brands on Facebook and Instagram as their ambassador. I am the brand ambassador for Chinmark Group, a real estate brand; Oma’s Studio and a lot of clothing lines and cosmetic brands, which I market their products on the app and get paid for the publicity. Losing all this can be a very terrible nightmare, but what doesn’t kill you makes you stronger, I believe. What has been the reaction of the brands you promote? The brands are currently very understanding, because what happened to me can happen to anyone. I must thank my friends, Amanda Chisom and Sojarex, who have stood in the gap for me at this time by using their own platforms to repost my works and brands so people know what has happened. The contracts with the brands I represent are still on and I believe very soon I will rise again. Did you try opening another account, starting afresh; perhaps, from there you may be able to appeal to get back the former? I did. But before I could even begin using it, Facebook Inc downed them again, both on Facebook and Instagram. Did you appeal on these ones? I was not even given the chance to. I lost hope and left the apps for them. How have you been coping since your business is mostly stationed on these media? Members of the Ghen Ghen Community have been standing with me at this difficult time of my life. They are my family and we will get through this together. Also, Amanda and Sojarex have also been helpful. They call to encourage me and help me run a few ads here and there. It has been a really hectic period in my career, but I have decided to stay positive through it all. On the average, how much do you make from these social media platforms? In a week I make between N100,000  and N150,000 from the brands I partner with. I am also a content curator, so I get consulted by companies on how to go about their visibility online.   I have lost a lot of money, because most of my clients patronise me because of my large followership on Facebook and Instagram. Most of us build businesses on social media. It is so sad that all this can go away in a blink. So, where is your business stationed now? I have left Facebook and Instagram. I moved to LinkedIn, and I am loving the community. It is such a beautiful professional platform. My influence is gradually growing there and I intend to keep up with the energy. I will be a big shot on that app before the end of the year. The queen is here now and we are about to take over this space. But I will still want my Facebook and Instagram accounts back as it is very hard to let go of all of those brands and progress just like that. What lessons have you learnt from this experience? I always tell people this now: when building your brand, especially for social media experts like us, don’t focus on one platform; spread it across other platforms. I learnt it the hard way. When Tunde Ednut went through his account saga, I didn’t understand it as much, till it happened to me. But I am like a light that can’t be hidden, I will rise again, even bigger and better. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com