No fewer than 17 persons died in separate auto accidents in Osun and Delta states while two others died in reported robbery incidents in Benue State. Sunday PUNCH reports that 12 people lost their lives after two commercial buses had a head-on collision late Friday night in Gbongan, Osun State. It was gathered that one of the buses involved was transporting passengers from Lagos to Kano while the second bus was heading to Ibadan from Akure when they collided opposite the Ayedaade Local Government secretariat on the Gbongan/Ibadan route around 9.05 pm. Sector Public Education Officer of the Federal Road Safety Corps in Osun State, Agnes Ogungbemi, said 22 others were injured in the accident. Saturday PUNCH had earlier reported that 11 people died in the crash with 22 others injured, but Ogungbemi while giving an update said one other passenger died while receiving treatment in hospital. Ogungbemi also said that all the deceased in the accident were male. The statement read in parts, “The accident was caused by speeding as two commercial buses, a white Mazda E2000 bus and a black Toyota Hiace bus, had a head-on collision. 22 people, 19 males, 2 females and one female child were injured. 11 people, all males, died out of 33 people involved in the crash. “We took 16 injured victims to Ariremako Hospital, Gbongan, 6 injured victims were taken to Central Hospital, Osogbo. FRSC Team took 10 corpses to Obafemi Awolowo University Teaching Hospital, Ile Ife morgue. The remaining corpse was taken by his relatives who are from Hausa community in Lagos.” Also, three persons were on Saturday killed in an accident involving a Lexus Sport Utility Vehicle and a tricycle in Asaba, Delta State capital. The accident occurred along Ibusa road, by the Koka Junction on the Benin-Asaba-Onitsha expressway. Eyewitnesses told one of our correspondents that the driver of the Lexus rammed into the tricycle, killing the three occupants on the spot.  When contacted, the acting Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Bright Edafe, confirmed the incident. Edafe said his men rescued the Lexus driver from the grip of the mob, adding that the matter was under investigation. Meanwhile, a suspected motorcycle thief died after he was set ablaze by a mob in Makurdi, Benue State capital, in the early hours of Saturday. The deceased allegedly snatched the bike around Demekpe in  Makurdi but was pursued by members of a vigilance group. According to an eyewitness, who simply identified herself as Favour, the alleged thief was chased into a Living Seed Mega Church where a vigil was ongoing. She said, “We were having an all-night prayer when a young man ran into our church.” Also, some suspected cultists were said to have butchered a man, believed to be a member of a rival cult group, at the Modern Market in Makurdi. When contacted, Benue State Command spokesperson, DSP Catherine Anene, confirmed the incident in a text message, saying “incident confirmed and condemned.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com