The Rivers State Police Command said it had arrested three suspected ‘one-chance’ robbers, including a female, in Rumuosi, Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of the state. It was gathered that the gang members were nabbed while attempting to escape with a bag of money snatched from a filing station manager, identified as Simeon Ibrahim, who was on his way to the bank. The suspects, who allegedly disguised as commercial taxi operators, trailed and conveyed Ibrahim after he took the sales proceeds to deposit in a new generation bank in the Rumuokoro area, near Port Harcourt. While on their way, it was gathered that the female suspect shouted that her hands were hurting and appealed to Ibrahim to assist her to open the vehicle’s door. Unaware of their plot, as Ibrahim tried to open the door, the gang members allegedly snatched the bag of money, but as they attempted to push him out of the moving vehicle, he dragged the car’s steering wheel and started shouting for help. Fortunately, a taxi driver, who observed what was going on, used his vehicle to block the robbers, who tried to escape by jumping out of the vehicle, but they were immediately rounded up by residents, who alerted policemen from the Choba Police Station. An eyewitness, identified simply as Tonye, said, “First, the girl denied that she was with the gang, but when I asked the victim if she was among them, he said yes and we asked her to lie down and later we took them to the station.” Speaking to journalists, Ibrahim said, “I arranged my money and boarded a taxi with three occupants to the bank and while on the way, one of them started shouting: ‘My hand, my hand; please open the door’. “While I tried to open the door from inside, she said I should open from outside; in the ensuing confusion, I noticed that my bag was missing and they tried to push me out of the vehicle.” When contacted, the spokesman for the state police command, Nnamdi Omoni, confirmed the incident and said the suspects had been transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department. Omoni said, “Yes, that incident is confirmed. Two males and one female, who are serial ‘once-chance’ robbers, were apprehended. “They were arrested by men of the Choba Police Station. Luck ran out on them today. “They are about now being transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department for further investigation and possible prosecution.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com