The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Tuesday felicitated with the President of the Nigerian Guild of Editors, Mustapha Isah, on his re-election for a second-term at the just concluded convention of the Guild in Kano. This was contained in a statement on Tuesday by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, titled, ‘Look forward to working together, President Buhari congratulates elected Guild of Editors leadership.’ Isah, the Director of News, Silver Bird Productions, re-emerged the President of the NGE on Monday. Following the re-emergence of Isa, who scored 176 of the 243 total votes cast to overwhelm his closest rival, Victoria Ibanga, who scored 54 votes, will pilot the affairs of the NGE for the next three years. Others who emerged victorious after a keen and transparent contest include Orji Adibiyi, who scored 132 votes, to clinch the position of the Vice President, (West), while Sam Egballa scored 132 votes to clinch the position of Vice President (East) Steve Nwosu, who scored 150 votes emerge as Treasurer of the Guild. Buhari  statement read in part, “In expressing good wishes for his new tenure, President Buhari also congratulates those who emerged as members of the Standing Committee, both the re-elected and the ones who won fresh seats. “The President commends the rancour-free conduct of the elections and the unanimous acceptance of the outcome, saying this has set a good standard for other unions to copy.” He, therefore, enjoined the newly-elected executive to join his regime in fighting fake news and to avoid negativism, urging the media to abstain from content that does not uphold law and order and National security. In his acceptance speech, Isah promised to put in a lot more efforts in his determined efforts and commitment to uplifting the NGE to another level of success of progress and development. ”Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com