• Ogun man nabbed for raping 60-year-old woman The Ondo State Police Command has arrested a 35-year-old man, Emmanuel Joseph, for allegedly raping an 80-year-old woman, Mrs Alice Mogbonjubola, on Lotogbe Street, Ondo. It was gathered that before raping the octogenarian, the suspect allegedly entered her compound and pretended to be picking some herbs and dispossessed the victim of her money and a mobile telephone. A source said the suspect sneaked into the victim’s  room through the window and forcefully had intercourse with her after threatening the octogenarian with a dagger. The source said, “The woman was in her room and the suspect came around the house pretending to be picking herbs at the back of the house. “It was the cry of the woman that attracted the attention of people on the street, who forced the door open, and caught him naked. The people rescued the woman and took the suspect to the police station.” Speaking on the incident, the suspect said he did not know what came over him that made him to commit the act. Joseph stated, “I didn’t know what I was doing that time. Something would tell me to steal or rape and I would do it. After that, I would blame myself for doing it. “I don’t know what has come over me. I was just released from prison before the strike by judicial workers because of this bad behaviour. I have been doing it for long.” Confirming the development, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Tee-Leo Ikoro, said investigation had commenced into the incident. A police source said the suspect had confessed to the crime and that some phones, which he admitted were stolen, as well as charms and a dagger were recovered from his house. Similarly, a 40-year-old man, Adeshina Adebowale, has been arrested by the personnel of the Ogun State Police Command for allegedly breaking into his 60-year-old neighbour’s apartment and raping her. The incident happened in Idanyin, Ado-Odo-Ota Local Government Area of the state. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this in a statement on Monday. Oyeyemi said the suspect was arrested following a complaint lodged at the Idanyin Divisional Police Headquarters by the victim’s son. He said the victim’s son brought his mother to the station and reported the incident. Oyeyemi stated that the suspect broke into the victim’s apartment around 4pm on Sunday and had carnal knowledge of her. The PPRO said, “The son narrated that while his 60-year-old mother was in her apartment, the suspect broke in and forcefully had sex with her. “Upon the report, the DPO, Idanyin Division, CSP Olayinka Kuye, detailed his detectives to go after the suspect. “He was subsequently traced and apprehended, while the victim was quickly taken to hospital for treatment. “The suspect has made confessional statement that he actually committed the crime.” Oyeyemi added that the state Commissioner of Police, Edward Ajogun, had ordered the immediate transfer of the suspect to state Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for further investigation and prosecution. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com