The fact that we often need to talk about safety makes the expression, ‘burglary proof’, a recurrent one. This is despite the fact that experts often note that it is an inappropriate term. Beyond identifying the appropriate version, we will today establish three grammatical errors associated with it. First, it is sub-standard and, indeed, a bastardised/wrong form of what it should be: burglarproof.  A lot of us use ‘burglary proof’ because we feel that what the owner of the facility where you have it wants to prevent is burglary. So, we think, it should be ‘burglary proof’. Yet, there are some who simply reason that he who burgles houses is a burglary, not minding the fact that it is the act that you call burglary while the invader is the burglar.  So, the bar we erect across windows to prevent illegal entry is not a burglary proof but is burglarproof. Not a noun! It is not enough to know the meanings of burglary, burglar and burglarproof.  We should also be conscious of their grammatical statuses so that we can use them appropriately. Particularly, ‘burglarproof’ is an adjective, not a noun: The contractors are fixing the burglary proof next week. (Wrong) The contractors are fixing the burglarproof next week. (Still wrong) The contractors are fixing the burglarproof bars next week. (Correct) The last usage is the correct one because ‘burglar’ is used as an adjective, qualifying the noun, ‘bars’. At times, ‘burglarproof’ can qualify the building itself. It may describe the house and not the barrier. In that situation, too, it should still be placed as an adjective: The burglarproof house is what they prefer. (Which of the houses do they prefer? The bulletproof one.) They like the house because it is burglarproof. (Here, burglarproof is performing the function of adjectives –  like beautiful, secure and well fenced. Single word, not two Note that the expression is a one-word compound, not two separate words. Just remember ‘bulletproof’ and you will better understand the concept.  So, while it is at times hyphenated, it is wrong to treat it as two words: I want someone to help fix the burglary proof. (Wrong) I want someone to help me fix the burglar proof. (Wrong) I want someone to help me fix the burglarproof bars. (Correct) Lastly, do not forget that ‘bulletproof’ is also an adjective: The government has ordered 500 bullet proofs. (Wrong) The government has ordered 500 bulletproof cars. (Correct) Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com