Data Analytics Privacy Technology Limited has announced the release of its NDPR365 SaaS Technology, which will serve as a solution to Nigeria Data Protection and Privacy Regulation assessment and compliance for SMEs and large organisations. In a statement, the company said, “NDPR was issued by the National Information Technology Development Agency on 25th January, 2019 pursuant to Section 6(a&c) of the NITDA Act, 2007. “The regulation aims to provide protection to individuals for their personal information utilised by organisations that collect, use, store or share the information for whatever reason. “The NDPR applies to residents of Nigeria as well as to Nigerians living abroad and aims to ensure data controllers implement measures to protect data from security breaches, theft and data subject right infringements.” The NDPR365 was designed to provide organisations with the ability to perform data mapping, policies and procedures, data processing, data sharing, technical and organisational measures, data subject access request, data protection impact assessments, and data breach activities. Managing Partner, DAPT Limited, Segun Olugbile, said, “The NDPR requires all organisations to make changes to the way they process the personal information of Nigerian citizens. “The NDPR365 solution is designed for Nigerians companies with Nigerian citizens’ data, foreign organisations with Nigerians’ data, Data Protection Officers and Data Protection Champions, cybersecurity individuals and all organisations that control or process personal data of data subjects within the scope of current NDPR and future Nigerian Data Protection and Privacy Laws.’’ According to the company, the NDPR365 is a securely hosted cloud-based software and allows data controllers and processors to conduct data protection and privacy assessment and generate automated reports highlighting the status of their compliance with the requirements of the regulation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com