Super Eagles coach, Gernot Rohr, has named a 25-man home-based squad to face Mexico in an international friendly at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum on July 4. Enyimba goalkeeper John Noble and forward Anayo Iwuala and a recalled Ikechukwu Ezenwa, Heartland keeper, top the list of the players invited to camp for the friendly. Also invited are Rivers United defender Ifeanyi Anaemena, Enyimba midfielder Ekundayo Ojo and forwards Ibrahim Olawoyin (Enugu Rangers) and Stephen Jude (Kwara United). The players are expected to report at the Serob Legacy Hotel, Wuse, Abuja on June 22 with their travel documents. Only 22 of them will travel to the United States of America for the glamour friendly. It is expected that the LA Coliseum, a 77,500-capacity facility will be at full capacity for the friendly match. However, Mexico will be without legendary LA Galaxy striker Javier ‘Chicharito’ Hernández. Mexico manager, Tata Martino, named Napoli forward Hirving Lozano in a 45-man provisional squad to face Panama on June 30 and the Eagles. Atlético Madrid midfielder Héctor Herrera, Andrés Guardado and Diego Lainez of Real Betis, and PSV Eindhoven’s Erick Gutiérrez are some of the top midfielders listed for the friendlies. Genk defender Gerardo Arteaga and Ajax’s Edson Álvarez will lead the team from the back, while Lozano, Funes Mori (Monterrey) and Eduardo Aguirre (Santos Laguna) will lead the team’s attack. The friendlies will serve as tune-up games for Mexico’s upcoming CONCACAF Gold Cup tournament billed for July 10 to August 1 in the United States. GOALKEEPERS Ikechukwu Ezenwa (Heartland); John Noble (Enyimba) Defenders Olisa Ndah (Akwa United); Adekunle Adeleke (Abia Warriors); Tope Olusesi (Rangers ); Ifeanyi Anaemena (Rivers United); Christopher Nwaeze (Kwara United); Enyinnaya Kazie (Rivers United); Mohammed Zirkiflu (Plateau United); Imoh Ubot (Enyimba FC); Tebo Degaulle (Nasarawa United); Lawal Murtala (Kwara United) Midfielders Anthony Shimaga (Rangers International); Seth Mayi (Akwa United); Uche Nwasonaya (Plateau United); Samuel Nnoshiri (Katsina United); Ekundayo Ojo (Enyimba FC) Forwards Anayo Iwuala (Enyimba FC); Stephen Jude (Kwara United); Ibrahim Olawoyin (Rangers); Charles Ashimene (Akwa United); Chinonso Ezekwe (Rangers); Auwalu Ali (Kano Pillars); Neurot Emmanuel (Plateau United); Abdulmutalif Sanusi (Katsina United). Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com