Popular Nigerian Actress, Kemi Lala Akindoju, is upset with the level of insecurity in the country and she is not mincing her words about her displeasure. Pondering on the high rate of insecurity in the country, the actress wonders if the lives of citizens matter to our leaders. Taking to her verified Twitter account, Akindoju, in a lengthy thread, noted that she is heartbroken about the current level of insecurity in the country. She wrote, “Do the lives of Nigerians not matter to our leaders? What is more troubling is how our leaders carry on as though all is well. Like they continue attending events and giving speeches like everything is rosy in this country. Things happen; people get killed, people are kidnapped, people are harassed. There’s an uproar and our leaders act as nothing happened. “The thing actually confuses me. The last time, Mr Macaroni and other peaceful protesters were beaten and harassed like criminals. After we shouted here, did anything happen? Did the Governor of the state address it?”
The screen diva stressed that even though insecurity is on the rise, nobody seems to do anything about it. More so, the leaders are not empathetic. She continued, “Insecurity is on the rise; nobody is safe, killings are now normal around the country and we all live in fear. Yet, our leaders just look away. Not even an attempt to show empathy for the people that put them there.
“The constitution was supposedly being reviewed and it was done for just two days. Meanwhile, we know how much time and resources go into election campaigns and political rallies. “Panels were set up to investigate police brutality; again, another sham. One second, we believe that we can actually work together and build the Nigeria of our dreams. The next second, our leaders remind us that we are just a joke to them. It is why we outsource common sense to prayer in Nigeria. God has given us all we need yet… on June 12, these same leaders will celebrate democracy day and start giving speeches. El-oh-el.” The thespian noted that Nigeria has left her heartbroken and disenfranchised, adding she is no longer interested in building the Nigeria of her dreams. “Was telling my second mum how heartbroken and disenfranchised Nigeria has left me. How I am no longer interested in building the Nigeria of our dreams. Every day, you wake up with hope, and then all hope is dashed. Every single day. Maybe I’ll feel better tomorrow, but right now, no.”