Allianz Nigeria says it has introduced a COVID-19 travel protection cover to the Nigerian market. The underwriter also said the National Insurance Commission had approved the new cover. It said in a statement on Sunday that the introduction of the product followed the announcement of the Allianz Risk Barometer 2021results which was clearly dominated by the COVID-19 risks. The risks were business interruption, COVID-19 pandemic and cyber incidents. “All the risks are strongly interlinked, demonstrating the growing vulnerabilities of our highly globalised and connected world,” it stated. Allianz Nigeria said it now offered travelling customers protection against emergency medical expenses associated with COVID-19 diagnosis while on a trip. The travel plan also covered accommodation costs related to COVID-19 diagnosis during a trip. Due to the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic, it stated, many countries had imposed mandatory quarantines, border closures, entry bans as well as restrictions for domestic travel as a means to curb the spread of the virus. The underwriter said the introduction of vaccines had a direct impact on travel especially air travel as demand for travel gradually began to return to normalcy with airlines beginning to advertise summer travel. The Chief Customer Officer, Allianz Nigeria, Tunji Oshiyoye, said, “Allianz Nigeria offers international travel insurance that meets the travel requirements of various embassies including Schengen member states. “The plan covers emergency medical expenses & hospitalisation abroad, medical evacuation, emergency dental care, legal assistance, compensation for delayed trip, or lost checked-in Baggage. Allianz also provides 24 hours travel assistance worldwide.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com