Some students sustained injuries during a Stampede which occurred on Saturday at the Computer Based Test Examination hall of National  Diploma II students sitting for the Entrepreneurship Education at the Kwara State Polytechnic, Ilorin. The students explained that more than 7,500 students cutting across five departments including Mass Communication, Business Administration, Marketing and Science Laboratory Technology were to sit for  the CBT examination. They attributed what they described as unfortunate to dearth of infrastructural and technological facilities to take care of the students population as the institution’s CBT centre carrying capacity was currently too low to accommodate the students. Eyewitness account also revealed that many of the affected stranded students were also beaten to stupor by security operatives of the institution at the venue of the examination. The students therefore implored the state government to come to the aid of the school in providing adequate infrastructural and Instructional facilities to aid teaching and learning in the Institution Reacting to the incident, Deputy Rector of the Institution, Dr Habeebah Adams, who confirmed the incident, however, said that no death was recorded while none of the students fainted during the stampede as being speculated in some quarters. She said that most of  the students affected in the stampede had been discharged from the Institution’s medical centre. Adams attributed the stampede incident to impatience of students whom she noted failed to adhere to CBT examination timetable and assured that the situation had been brought under control She urged the students to be calm as none of them would be left out in the EED CBT examination. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com