Nigerian Union of Banks, Insurance and Finance Institution Employees has partnered with the Association of Outsourcing Professionals in Nigeria to engage with the government to provide a legal framework to guide the operation of outsourcing in Nigeria. The Deputy General Secretary, NUBIFIE, Shola Aboderin, disclosed this in an interview with our correspondent. He said, “As we speak, there is no clear cut legal framework that guides the operation of outsourcing in Nigeria. If there is no legal framework, it would be difficult for either the practitioners or the union to lay claim to any document to be used if there is an infringement on the rights of either the management or the worker.” Aboderin said that the poor working conditions were reasons why there was a lot of fraud in the banking industry. “In the banking industry, if you enter any branch, any banking hall, you would meet a maximum of three to four core banking staff. If you have more than four, that means that bank is the biggest in that state, the remaining staff are outsourced. “There is no clear cut condition of service or career path for this set of workers. If they work for 10, 20 years, it is only what we negotiate with the management that management would decide to pay them one or two things. “Even the service agreement between the bank and the service providers are determined between the bank. Outsource companies are looking for jobs; they cannot tell the banks that the offer is very small. “If they do, they may lose the contract. Until we have a generalised service agreement, there will continue to be issues in the industry.’’ Aboderin added that a document had been sent following a meeting with stakeholders and this had been sent to the ministry of labour. Collaborating his statement, the Director, Membership and Events, AOPN, Chijoioke Iwu, said, “AOPN is always advocating that outsource staff receive the same treatment as core staff and enjoy the same welfare packages as their counterparts. NUBIFIE has also been fighting the same cause.” Iwu added that real recruitment agencies had licences and having legislation that backed outsourcing would help remove the quacks. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com