Atiku Support Organisation has warned the All Progressives Congress as well as National Assembly leaders not to destroy Nigeria’s democracy. The group said this in a statement signed by its National Publicity Secretary, Dr El Mo Victor, on Saturday. It asked Senate President Ahmad Lawan and House of Representatives Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila to pass the amended Electoral Act. The statement was titled, ‘Do not cripple and sabotage hard-fought democracy in Nigeria. Pass the amended electoral act to strengthen it, and respect the people’s rights, Atiku Support Organisation charges @OfficialAPCNg, @DrAhmadLawan, and @Femgbaja led @NGRSenate.’ It read, “It’s crystal clear to all observers of the political events in Nigeria that what the APC-led Senate and the executive fear most is a new electoral act that will return to the people, the power of the ballot to decide their future leaders. “Following calamitous performance from 2015 to date and realising that Nigerians are ready to punch them in the nose in future elections, the APC and its leadership in the house are deliberately frustrating efforts to get the amended electoral act passed into law.” The Atiku group alleged that by refusing to sign the Electoral Act, the APC was planning to rig future elections. It said, “It’s obvious that the APC and @DrAhmadLawan-led Senate Caucus and the executives have set in motion mechanisms to rig future elections in Nigeria, the only reason they are scared of electoral reform. It said, “Therefore, we demand the immediate passage of the amended electoral act by @DrAhmadLawan and @Femgbaja-led Assembly to strengthen democracy in Nigeria and return the power of the ballots to the people of Nigeria. “We call on the international community, @EUinNigeria, @USinNigeria, the US Ambassador, Mary Beth Leonard, and UK @CatrionaLaing1 and all Civil Society Organisations to call the house leadership to order. Nigeria cannot afford another bloodbath during elections.” The group added, “We wish to also call on the APC and Buhari-led government to desist from crippling and sabotaging democracy in Nigeria for selfish reasons. “Democracy entails freedom that must be respected and protected by the government and not stifled. The civic space must remain wide open for people to freely express themselves. “Government should leverage these expressions and opposing views to improve governance and not gagging opposing voices.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com