Seven persons, including a police inspector, were killed on Monday when bandits attacked Zandam village, in the Jibia Local Government Area of Katsina State. Those killed also included three residents of the village and three bandits. Spokesman for the state police command, SP Gambo Isah, who confirmed the incident on Tuesday, said five residents sustained injuries. It was learnt that the bandits, in large numbers, attacked the village around 5pm on Monday and killed three residents, all males. The bandits also injured five others and burnt down an uncompleted building being used as a clinic in the village. A detachment of mobile policemen deployed in the village reportedly had a fierce encounter with the bandits, leading to the death of the three hoodlums and the police inspector. Isah said, “On May 31, 2021, around 5pm, bandits in large numbers, invaded Zandam village, Jibia LGA, of the state. “The bandits had a fierce gun battle with the mobile policemen deployed in the village.  At the scene, it was discovered that three residents, all male, were killed by the hoodlums, while five others sustained injuries. The team succeeded and gunned down three of the bandits. One inspector of police gallantly lost his life during the encounter.” Meanwhile, bandits have invaded Kanfanin Bobi village, in Mariga, Niger State, killing three persons. The bandits were said to have also attacked a police station, which they burnt down. Recall that the bandits had on Monday attacked Beri in Bobi district, leaving a mobile policeman and 14 other villagers dead. The Director General, Niger State Emergency Management Agency, Ibrahim Inga, on Tuesday, said the agency got a report of the attacks, adding that the bandits also rustled an unconfirmed number of cattle at Maigoge village, also in Mariga LGA of the state. “Three persons were killed and several others injured and displaced in Kanfanin Bobi in Mariga LGA this (Tuesday) morning,” he added. The State Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Wasiu Abiodun, did not take his calls. ”Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com