A 30-year-old woman has been allegedly raped while searching for a shop to rent in Ogun State. The victim was reportedly raped by a 42-year-old man, John Daniel, who offered to help her get a container to use as a shop. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this in a statement on Monday. Oyeyemi said the suspect was arrested on Sunday by men of the command for forcefully having carnal knowledge of the woman. He said the suspect was arrested following a complaint lodged at the Sango-Ota Divisional Headquarters by the victim. Oyeyemi stated, “It was reported that she (victim) went in search of a shop to rent for her business around 6pm when she met the suspect, who told her that he had a container kept in his care by someone, which she could used as a shop. “The suspect there and then asked her to follow him to where the container was and on getting to his house, the suspect asked the victim to sit down in his living room for him to call the owner of the container. “But surprisingly, the suspect suddenly locked the door and brought out a screw driver and a bottle with which he threatened her. She stated further that she was raped after being beaten mercilessly. “Upon the report, the DPO, Sango-Ota, CSP Godwin Idehai, detailed his detectives to the scene, where the suspect was promptly arrested. The bottle and screw driver were also recovered as exhibits. “The victim was taken to hospital by the police for treatment. The suspect has confessed to the crime.” The PPRO said the Commissioner of Police, Edward Ajogun, had ordered the transfer of the suspect to the Anti-Human Trafficking and Child Labour Unit of the state Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for discreet investigation and diligent prosecution. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com