Nigeria has been ranked as the 6th overall African tech ecosystem of the future for the year 2021/2022. A report by fDi Intelligence, a specialist division of the Financial Times, in collaboration with research company, Briter Bridges disclosed on Thursday. According to the report, Nigeria only led the number of start-ups category, with many of them operating within the fintech space, taking advantage of the under-provision of banking services in the country. Part of the report stated, “Although Lagos is renowned for its start-up ecosystem, there is a significant disconnect between the city’s tech ecosystem, its surroundings, and the wider country, which suffers from chronically poor infrastructure and education, and recurring political instability and security issues. “This challenging environment prevents Nigeria from excelling in any specific category of the fDi Tech Ecosystems of the Future ranking.” South Africa ranked as the number one overall African tech ecosystem of the future ranking. The country was first place for economic potential, startup status, and business friendliness. It was also home to Naspers, one of the world’s largest investors in tech companies. South Africa attracted the largest foreign direct investment in the software and IT services sector on the continent, according to data from fDi Markets. According to the report, South Africa has the most developed VC networks and the oldest start-up incubator on the continent, the Cape Innovation and Technology Initiative. The incubator was credited with supporting more than 3000 entrepreneurs in its two-decade history. “With ready access to VC funds, government grants, incubators, and tech talent, South Africa is a vision of what other tech ecosystems could become.” The report added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com