The Lagos State Judicial Service Commission has sworn in seven presidents and 89 members of customary courts in the state. The swearing-in, which took place on Tuesday at the Lagos State Judicial Service Commission, Ikeja, was attended by the Chief Registrar, High Court of Lagos State, Mrs Olubukola Okunuga; the Executive Secretary,  LSJC, Olubukola Salami; the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Lagos State, Moyosore Onigbanjo, the Chief Judge of Lagos State, Kazeem Alogba, as well as members of the commission. Speaking at the ceremony, the Onigbanjo said, “The appointment of judicial officials at any level is one that is crucial to the administration of justice. The primary function of customary courts is to interpret the customary laws of a particular area in which they are to operate. “Customary courts are also to ensure that justice is dispensed without attention to the technicalities applicable in a regular court. “Therefore, as the closest court to the citizens in the judicial hierarchy, it is important for customary courts to dispense justice with the utmost discipline.” While charging the newly appointed presidents and members on their responsibilities, Onigbanjo said, “Being newly appointed members of the customary courts in Lagos State, I charge you all to be fair, calm, and resolute in the discharge of your duties. I congratulate you all.” The Executive Secretary, Salami, said, “Citizens can always head to customary courts to address their grievances. Unfortunately, issues of land, which are prevalent in our society today, do not come under the jurisdiction of customary courts. “My advice to the general public is for them to take advantage of customary courts in order to address any customary issues they may have. I strongly advise citizens to desist from taking the law into their own hands.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com