There was panic in the Umunachi community, Obowo Local Government Area of Imo State, on Saturday, after a motorcyclist, Ogbonna Chukwuebuka, stabbed to death a man simply identified as Samuel. Chukwuebuka, 23, also injured another person, identified simply as Idowu, during a fight that saw the suspect allegedly using weapons on his victims. While the cause of the fight could not be immediately ascertained by our correspondent, village sources said the men had a disagreement on money. Unable to agree on the sharing formula, the men engaged in a free-for- all, which led to the motorcyclist allegedly stabbing Samuel to death, while Idowu was seriously injured, a source told our correspondent. The source stated, “Chukwuebuka was fighting with two friends, Samuel and Idowu, and as the fight degenerated, Chukwuebuka stabbed Samuel and he lost consciousness. He also injured Idowu, who called for help and his brothers rushed him and Samuel to hospital. “Samuel was pronounced dead on arrival at the hospital, while Idowu was admitted. So, out of fear, Chukwuebuka and his brothers fled. The deceased’s kinsmen regrouped and came to his father’s house but met his absence. Angered by the development, they set his father’s house ablaze. “They made sure that the house was completely razed before they left the compound. The deceased hailed from the neighbouring Umungwa community, while the suspect and the injured are from the same Umunachi community in the Obowo Local Government Area.” When contacted, the police spokesman in the state, Bala Elkana, said he had yet to be briefed on the development. He, however, promised to make enquiries and get back to our correspondent, but he had yet to do so as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com