Residents of Olofa Estate, Ofatedo, Osun State, have been seized by fear after a gang of robbers wrote to inform them of an impending attack unless a sum of N20m is contributed for them. In the letters sighted on Thursday, the suspected robbers threatened to kill all the guards in the community, adding that no house would be spared during the attack. A copy of the note read in part, “This is to inform you all that we thieves are coming to this community. We won’t spare any house or else you contribute a sum of N20m and keep it with the chairman. We will only visit and take the money from him. We will kill all your watchmen if they try to stop us. We are coming with full force.” A resident of the community, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told The PUNCH that he had relocated his family to Osogbo, Osun State capital, following the threat. According to him, the letters, written in both Yoruba and English, were put at conspicuous points in the community on Wednesday. He further explained that the letters had created panic in the area, lamenting that many residents were afraid to even discuss measures to stop the attack. But another resident, simply identified as Gbadebo, said those concerned were already making efforts to investigate the letters, with a view to determining the veracity. Meanwhile, the Chairman of a non-governmental organisation, World Institute for Peace, Lamina Kamiludeen, has called on the Osun State Government to deploy more security men in the area to allay fears of the residents. When contacted, the Field Commandant, Osun Amotekun Corps, Amitolu Shittu, said the group was aware of the threat letter. He said, “Although there was no formal report yet from the community, but immediately we saw the letters from the robbers on the social media, I met some residents of the area and I asked some relevant questions. We have not met the representatives of the community as a group. We are on top of the situation but we can’t disclose in full our strategy in the media.” Calls made to the spokesperson of the police in the state, Yemisi Opalola, did not go through, while response to a text message sent to her, is still being expected. A spokesperson for the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Daniel Adigun, said the command had not been informed of the development. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com