Coinbase has announced plans to launch a crypto app store offering third-party developed products. The company is making this move in its bid to become the place people participate in the cryptoeconomy. This was revealed by a blog post written by Coinbase CEO, Brian Armstrong. He said, “The cryptoeconomy is still in its early stages, but it is clear that every year more and more economic activity will take place on crypto rails.” Armstrong said crypto was maturing from its initial use case of trading bitcoin to the trading of thousands of new assets, and the adoption of new use cases like Decentralized Finance, NFTs, smart contracts, Decentralised Autonomous Organizations, and more. While he believes this shift will come with its own challenge, he said it was the future of the industry. In the same way Coinbase helped people access Bitcoin for the first time in a trusted, easy way, there is a need for the company to do the same for the decentralized crypto economy, he added. Speaking of the app store, he said, “Apple didn’t attempt to build every app for the iPhone, it empowered developers and gave mobile users an easy way to access new innovative apps. We need to do the same in crypto. “There is now 10s of billions of dollars of economic activity running on the Apps, and a new trend coming out every three months. We’ll work to give our users easy access to all of this from the main Coinbase product.” Armstrong believes that any app built on decentralised crypto rails will soon be accessible to users of the Coinbase app. “Our customer’s wallet and identity should seamlessly integrate into any of these apps. Part of this change will be embracing new wallet technologies, including those that allow for safe and easy self-custody. In the future, you will have the option to do self-custody of your crypto, right in the main Coinbase app.” He added. The CEO acknowledged that the company’s focus on value for customers has been largely western because of headway with regulators in the region. However, he promised a more intentional move by the company to create more value for the international market. The price of bitcoin on coinmarketcap.com on Wednesday (7.34pm) was $34,606.21. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com