The House of Representatives’ Ad Hoc Committee on Assessment and Status of All Recovered Loots Movable and Immovable Assets from 2002 to 2020 by Agencies of the Federal Government of Nigeria for Effective Efficient Management and Utilisation is not satisfied with the Federal Government’s decision to commence the bidding process for the sale of recovered and forfeited assets by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. The PUNCH learnt on Monday that the committee was unhappy because the items being auctioned were still under investigation by the House. Some members of the committee, who spoke to our correspondent on condition of anonymity, asked why the executive arm of government was in a rush to dispose of the assets when their true status was still being determined by the legislature. The Office of the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice and the Inter-ministerial Committee set up by the government to handle sales of the assets under the Ministry of Justice had on June 10, 2021, opened the bid for the sales of the assets in Abuja on Thursday. National President of the National Association of Auctioneers, Aliyu Kiliya, had expressed his satisfaction with the manner in which the opening of the bid was conducted. But a member of the House committee, while commenting on the implication of the auction while probe was ongoing, said, “They think that’s the best strategy.” Responding to another question on likely frustration of the ongoing probe by the House, the source said, “Let’s keep praying for our country. It is in a mess.” Meanwhile, another member of the committee disclosed to our correspondent on Saturday that the panel planned to go an assessment tour of the seized and forfeited assets this week, including those recovered from a former Minister of Petroleum Resources, Diezani Alison-Madueke, and her allies. The lawmaker, who also spoke on the condition of anonymity, stated that though the assets could be sold, the House would ensure that “they must have done a proper valuation.” He said, “You see, they want to rush the auction; they want to pre-empt the National Assembly. As of now, there are some of the properties that they said are to be sold off which they are still compiling and that means that they don’t even know what they want to sell yet. “They set up an inter-ministerial committee (on recovered assets) about nine months ago and it was given six months to submit its report. The committee was to compile the seized items for auctioning. But they did not conclude the exercise. Anytime there is an inquisition, they quickly wake up to action and rush things.” When asked when the committee planned to inspect the assets, the lawmaker said, “We are hoping to start next (this) week.” The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission had on May 28, 2021, told the House committee that it was awaiting presidential order to auction the jewelleries seized from Alison-Madueke, with an estimated value of about N14.460bn and houses estimated to worth $80m. The Chairman of the committee, Adejoro Adeogun, had decried that the seized assets were being left to decay, thereby eventually becoming a loss to the country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com