The Lagos State Government, in collaboration with the International Finance Corporation, has teamed up with the World Bank to train built environment professionals in government on the ideals of the novel initiative. The Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr Idris Salako, announced this on Wednesday at the Lagos State-IFC EDGE workshop on Green Building in Lagos. He was quoted as saying in a statement that the Green Building initiative adopted by the Lagos State Government was the right way to go in developing environment-friendly and sustainable buildings to promote greenery and drastically reduce the carbon footprint in the state. “In clear terms, the Green Building Initiative is aimed at promoting eco-friendly structures, known as Green Buildings, which use less water, optimise energy efficiency, conserve natural resources, generate less wastes and provide healthier spaces for occupants,” Salako said. He said the initiative was geared towards accelerating the ideals of the T.H.E.M.E.S agenda and making Lagos a 21st-century economic pillar. He enjoined town planners, architects, builders, and other professionals in government to be standard bearers in the physical environment and take full advantage of the workshop in order to facilitate the design and construction of green buildings in the state. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development, Abiola Kosegbe, said the team of EDGE experts would become green building professionals. She added that the collaboration would provide environmental advantages by reducing utility bills, carbon dioxide emissions and pollution as well as achieving the sustainable development goals. An EDGE expert, Egbike Sunday, added that the role of EDGE experts included being embedded within the certification process, providing design advice to developers and fulfilling compliance requirements among others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com