GUNMEN suspected to be kidnappers on Tuesday night invaded Araro village in the Ido Local Government Area of Ibadan and abducted the village head, Chief Mustapha Apanpa, and his wife identified as Mujidat. Residents of the community located along Ibadan-Abeokuta road were said to have been thrown into panic following the abduction. Some residents said there was a heavy rain at the time of the incident and this was said to have prevented many from knowing what happened immediately. The reason for the kidnap of the couple was not immediately known, although the family of the victims had not been contacted by the gunmen, according to a resident of the area. Some of those living in the area said the incident had created panic among them because they did not know if such incident would happen again. One of them said residents were making efforts to improve security in the area. The Police Public Relations Officer, Adewale Osifesoa, when contacted, said a husband and wife were reported to have been kidnapped at Araro area. He said, “The incident happened very late on Tuesday, 22nd of June, 2021at Araro village. Efforts are in top gear to rescue both victims and as well apprehend the abductors.” The incident happened just as the Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism, Dr. Wasiu Olatubosun, said the state would involve traditionalists in its efforts to end insecurity in the state. The commissioner said this at a community public enlightenment meeting on security and peaceful coexistence held in Ibadan on Wednesday. Olatubosun told the traditionalists that Governor Seyi Makinde was already working on the request of the traditional worshipers to be granted a public holiday. He said, “We need to involve you, our fathers and mothers, brothers and sisters in the traditional religion in finding an end to insecurity in the state. We are urging you to do all you can, including making spiritual appeasements, sacrifices to ensure peace in our state.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com