Ex-Bendel Insurance players, Baldwin Bazuaye, Ambrose Vanzekin and Henry Dittimiya have appealed to Edo State Deputy Governor, Philip Shaibu, not to withdraw the club from the Nigeria National League. Several Insurance players and officials sustained varying degrees of injuries and body harm when supporters of Remo Stars attacked them after their goalless draw in Ikenne on Sunday, with others jumping fences and running long distances to safety. Reacting to the incident, Shaibu on Monday threatened to pull the team out of the NNL if the league body failed to adequately punish Remo Stars. “Bendel Insurance belongs to the Edo State Government and we demand from the Nigeria Football Federation and the NNL board that they ban Remo FC from further participating in any organised tournament for a period of not less than five years. And we also request that the NFF and the NNL board as a matter of fact give a verified commitment to the safety of Insurance players for the remaining matches. Failure to do that, Bendel Insurance is withdrawing from the NNL forthwith,” Shaibu stated on Monday. However, former players of the team have called on the Deputy Governor to reconsider his stance in the interest of the players, who are mostly bread-winners of their families. “I saw the video and it saddened me that while players were being beaten, others were laughing and having fun. I am in total support of what my deputy governor has said in terms of punishment for Remo and providing security for Insurance players in subsequent games. I know he is angry, but I want to appeal with him to reconsider pulling the team out of the NNL for the sake of the players,” the club’s ex-player and coach Baldwin Bazuaye told The PUNCH. “There are over 30 players in the team including the non-playing staff that depends on the salaries they get there to feed their families, so I will want him to reconsider pulling them out of the league,” Bazuaye added. Another ex-player of the club Henry Dittimiya said, “I appeal to the deputy governor to reconsider the move because of his love for sports and those who depend on the players salaries to survive.” Former goalkeeper Ambrose Vanzekin said, “We can only appeal to the deputy governor to reconsider his stand on this matter because of the youths involved. This is their means of livelihood and it will mean putting to the streets people that were formerly gainfully employed.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com