Former Registrar, West African Examination Council, Chief Alex Ajayi, tells ABIODUN NEJO about his childhood, career and view about governance in Nigeria Unlike some of your peers, you are still agile at 91. What is the secret? It is the chance of nature. If you have many pieces of kola nut, only one or two may be white. It cannot be easily regulated. Unfortunately, I lost two of my younger siblings – the one immediately after me and the one after him, whereas, here I am. It is not that I don’t have any ailment, but they are not the debilitating types. I had rheumatic pain at the age of seven. It was treated at that time but it kept recurring. But when I grew up playing cricket, it stopped. What is far more interesting and surprising is that I have what people dread the most – high blood pressure. I have been hypertensive from the age of 30 in 1960. By April 1960, I found that if I read some lines, they would get blurred, so, when I requested a pair of glasses, the doctors said I didn’t need a pair of glasses and I asked why? At that time, we had expatriate doctors in the West African Examination Council. I was told that I had high blood pressure. In those days, nobody knew what was called high blood pressure in Nigeria. It was not a common ailment. I asked whether he wanted me to go and donate blood but he laughed and explained to me what high blood pressure meant. Since then, I have had to control high blood pressure with all sorts of drugs. When I was in England, my niece gave me a drug which I have been taking every day since August 19, 1981. I have taken it faithfully. For the first 15 years, the drug was not available in Nigeria, but fortunately I was virtually part of the English landscape; I travelled to England at will. I had always had a London office since the time I joined WAEC until 1995. That is, from 1959 to 1995. From 1980 to 1995, the drug was not available in Nigeria. So, I had to go to England where I could get it easily. But in 1995, I went to a pharmacy shop in Surulere, Lagos, and I saw the drug on the shelf. I was amazed and I ordered it, but the seller declined, saying unless a doctor prescribed it. Fortunately, I got an Indian pharmacist who could sell it to me without a prescription. That was the beginning of how the drug was available in different pharmacy stores in different towns, including Ado Ekiti. I depend on the drug every day. But from December last year, when the economy dimmed, the drug has not been available in Nigeria. Fortunately, my sister in London sent me enough to cover a year. Then again, they brought for me a consignment that will last for more years. But fortunately, I don’t have diabetes, I don’t have asthma and I don’t have all those other killing ailments. That is what has helped me. For the sight, my mother read at the age of 90. I also keep the petty things I hear from friends and doctors to stay healthy. What kind of parents did you have and how did they influence you? My grandfather was a name in the community and was significant and contributed a lot to the commonwealth. My father took off from there and created so many universes. He was the one who founded the Ekiti Progressives Union in 1930, the year I was born. The association founded Ekiti Parapo College at Ido Ekiti. Papa was the first member of the House of Assembly from Ado Ekiti. He was a pastor. But because of what he had done for the community, he was virtually selected for the Assembly. (the late Chief Obafemi) Awolowo wanted to make him Minister of Education because he attended St Andrews College and was the captain of his class. I had so much to look up to and to try to achieve, and in my own little way, I don’t think I have done badly too. I came back to Nigeria to work. At age 26, I was the principal of a grammar school. Some of my students were about my age. From that school, I joined WAEC and I was appointed as the first Nigerian substantive international staff member of WAEC. I will pass the legacy down to my children who have already taken after us, scoring first and making contributions to humanity. How would you compare the education you received during your time to what is offered in the country today? They are two different worlds. There were devoted teachers in the elementary classes in those days. The teachers then were well-trained. The schools were few and far between. There was so much concentration on the few pupils who were in the schools. The few teachers who were available spent their time in self-improvement. Teachers in those days would have over-read in the process of trying to secure admission to teachers’ training school and the pupils gained from such. What is being witnessed at present is deterioration due to expansion. With the expansion now, what we have in schools is quantity, not quality. On the part of students, what has gone wrong is that they are not absorbing as they should. They are not well taken care of by many of the teachers. The teachers are not well grounded too. In any case, apart from the allusion, there is also some corruption. Some of the teachers help their students to pass examinations. That did not happen in those days. As someone who was close to the late sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, and his politics, what would you say has changed in the political arena now? Awolowo prepared himself, had his implements sharpened. He was fully equipped to run Nigeria. Awolowo’s time was novel. He had a whole region to himself. He had personal integrity; he would not touch anybody’s kobo. These are part of the things missing now. States now have to go cap in hand every month to lobby the accountant-general and Minister of Finance to eke out a little existence and it is never enough. The internally generated revenue cannot cover expenses. For instance, Ekiti State earns N2.5bn every month; the wage bill alone is over N2bn. How do you have money for any business? Awolowo, at that time, had the whole of the West, including the Midwest. We had our timber in the Midwest and rubber and cocoa in Ondo and Ekiti. We had our trade in Lagos. We had enough. All the money was spread round the region for development. Will you advocate a return to a regional government? It may not be the solution also because there is the human aspect. Then, we found that there was lopsided sharing of facilities. There was not much coming to this part (Ekiti) despite the resources coming from here. We produced and supplied cocoa and kola nuts and so on. But a lot of money went to Ibadan (in Oyo State) and Abeokuta (in Ogun State), despite not supplying so much, but merely because the politicians were there. When you queried them, they said we were not attending political meetings. Of course, we in Ekiti would not give you money, but our cocoa enriched them there. What is your view on the clamour for equitable distribution of resources and the agitation for Oduduwa Republic? The clamour for equitable distribution is a genuine reaction to the insult that we are receiving from some northerners. One of the northerners said recently that their conquest must continue. How can you still be saying in 2021 what had been said and unsaid in 1955, 1956? However, I am not backing Oduduwa State as such, but I am definitely backing confirmation of our existence and self-respect. We have self-respect enough not to allow any tout from the North to talk to us. The northern governors had met many times. What is the point of having northern governors’ meetings when there is Nigeria Governors’ Forum meeting and state meetings? The whole idea of the Nigerian constitution as regards to creation of more states is to make everybody co-equal as much as possible, so that they don’t have a large area. The whole idea of federalism is that one large area would not be oppressive over another area. Southern governors met recently in Asaba, Delta State. Do you subscribe to their resolutions? I think it was the first time they were seeing the light of the day. That was what they should have done four or five years ago. But I am glad that they had that. The northerners now know that the southerners can have a personality of their own instead of broken groups. Definitely, number one, open grazing is primitive; nomadic life is primitive. Normally, every state should create an area where cattle can feed and ranch. Open grazing is an insult; they come to rape, kill and destroy the farms as if we are back to slave trade. I feel assaulted that people who are supposed to be carrying pastoral staff now carry weapons – AK 47 and the likes. Do you think the vision for Ekiti state by its founding fathers has been realised? Each government that has come on here; both military and civilian (governments) had their own schemes and they followed their party manifestos up to a point. There is always room for improvement. There is also a need for improvement in interpersonal relationships. I am one of those who agitated for the creation of the state. We were in the background. We are their father and we caution those at the helm of affairs from time to time. Why did you choose to write a book at 90? That is the question people ask. Even when Governor Kayode Fayemi came here (my residence) sometime after a previous birthday celebration, he saw papers on my table and asked me what they were. I said they were the manuscripts for my biography. He said he was interested. He even paid for the printing totally personally. It is my autobiography. I had thought it would be ready for launch during my birthday in June last year, but COVID-19 stalled it. It will now be launched on the occasion of my 91st birthday this month (June). The message is in the title of the book, ‘The legacy on the move’. Legacy is what you had. But in this case, fortunately, legacy is being passed on. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com