Nike Popoola The new President, Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria, Adesina Adebayo, has said that the institute will offer perspectives in addressing issues relevant to the improvement of the country’ tax system. He commended the government for implementation of the tax reforms, many of which were recommended by past study and working groups but previous governments could not invoke the political will to activate the legislation mechanism. While delivering his acceptance speech, he said he was impressed with the consistency of the amendment of tax statutes as evidenced in the Finance Acts of 2019 and 2020. These enactments had substantially addressed issues including blocking of tax loopholes, ease of compliance, administrative efficiency, access to information, and deployment of technology, he said. The CITN president said, “The institute under my watch will align with government efforts in this regard and will offer our perspectives in addressing issues relevant to the improvement of our tax system. “I hereby stretch forth my hand of cooperation to all stakeholders in the tax system including but not limited to Federal Inland Revenue Service, States Internal Revenue Services under Joint Tax Board, the Tax Appeal Tribunal, the Academia, the Organised Private Sector, and the others.” He said the institute, led by him would engage with the council and the Body of Past Presidents on the adoption for operational implementation for the ‘Draft 2021 to 2027 Strategic Plan’ within this year. Adebayo appreciated the 2021-2027 Strategic Plan Committee made up of 21 members drawn from tax practitioners, administrators and the academic community under the chairmanship of the Vice President, Samuel Agbeluyi. Without the resilience of the past presidents including the immediate president, Dame Gladys Olajumoke Simplice, of the institute, he said, CITN would not have attained its enviable level. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com