The Nigeria Labour Congress has said that it would not fold its arms and watch the sacking of thousands of workers by the Kaduna State Government ‘’in clear violation of the clear provisions of our labour laws.’’ The congress said it would continue to protect the rights of over 40,000 workers sacked by the Kaduna State Government using the instruments of protests and strike. The NLC President, Ayuba Wabba, said this in a statement in Abuja on Tuesday, in reaction to the threat by Governor Nasir El-Rufai to set up a judicial commission of inquiry into the protest and strike in May by the state workers. Following the mass retrenchment of workers in the state, the NLC had carried out the three-day protests and strike. But in the statement titled, ‘Kaduna workers are not slaves, Kaduna workers have rights,’ the congress insisted that the sacked workers have families and dependents to cater for, vowing to protect their rights and dignity. The union also blamed the state government for the killing of one of the students protesting the hike in tuition on Monday. It stated, “Furthermore, it is sickening that not being satisfied with destroying the livelihoods of workers, the state government has graduated to killing students. ‘’The  actions of the Kaduna State Government demonstrate complete  contempt for the present and future labour force in Kaduna State.  Workers are not slaves. They have families. They have dependents to take care of. They have rights.’’ Commenting on El-Rufai’s threat to bring the NLC to account for mobilising workers in the state for protests and strike, Wabba said the next round of industrial action would be total. He noted, “This time, it will be total and in defense and protection of the rights of Nigerian workers and pensioners whom Mr  Nasir El-Rufai relentlessly seeks to convert to his foot carpet. The Nigeria  Labour Congress will not allow such to thrive in spite of El-Rufai’s  threats some of which border on outright criminality and brigandage. “The threat by a supposed civilian government to use a judicial commission of inquiry to address a pure industrial dispute is totally unprecedented in our history as a country.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com