The late founder of the Synagogue Church of All Nations, Pastor Temitope Joshua may be buried on July 9, 2021 on the premises of his church in Lagos State. Joshua died last week in Lagos State at the age of 57. A member of the family, who spoke on condition of anonymity on Sunday, said the date was fixed after the immediate and extended members of the family of TB Joshua met at the residence of the deceased in Lagos State on Friday. The family decision is contrary to the expectation of the monarch of Arigidi Akoko, Oba Yisa Olanipekun, and some other traditional rulers in the Akoko area, who wanted the late pastor buried in his hometown, Arigidi Akoko. The traditional rulers were of the opinion that if the late cleric was taken to his hometown for burial, it would further give the town global recognition as the deceased’s worshippers all over the world would want to visit it to see his tomb and would also make the church to continue the project already embarked upon by the late founder. But the family member said the wife, Evelyn, and the children of the late cleric prevailed on the other family members over the burial place and date at the meeting. The source said the burial arrangement would take place between July 5 and July 9, 2021 He said, “The extended family members, his (Joshua) wife and children held a meeting on Friday and it was decided that he should be buried in Lagos and the burial programme will be between July 5 and 9. “It was on the insistence of the wife and the children that the other family members agree on the place of burial because they said they saw revelations that he should be buried in Lagos. Since they said it was spiritual, the family agreed with them.” However, one of the community leaders in Akokoland, Chief Ladi Bello, said since the decision had been taken on the burial arrangement of the deceased, the ongoing project left behind in Arigidi Akoko by the late pastor should not be abandoned. “Now that the burial will take place in Lagos, his legacies must be sustained while his projects in Akokoland should not be abandoned,” Bello urged. Meanwhile, SCOAN did not hold any of its three services on Sunday as the church remained shut. Our correspondent who visited the church on Sunday, however, noted that the main gate remained open for pedestrians, church staff and visitors. Also, residents of the area said business had been poor since the demise of the cleric A resident, who gave his name as Kunle, added that they expected that it would get worse. “All hotels will really suffer. People who come from far and wide to visit the prophet lodge there, but things will not be the same again. ” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com