Both the teaching and non-teaching staff of the D. S Adegbenro ICT Polytechnic, Itori, Ewekoro, Ogun State on Thursday, scampered for safety following the sporadic gunshots in the premises. Our correspondent gathered that the sound of gunshots was heard shortly after the leadership of the National Association of Nigerian Students, Ogun State chapter gained entry into the premises of the institution. It was gathered that the incident rekindled the last year assassination of one of the lecturers in the school which happened at the gate. The incident happened 24 hours after students blocked the Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway to protest against the management over examination matters. A video that had gone viral showed how the protesters humiliated the Special Assistant to the State Governor on Students Matters, Azeez Adeyemi during the protest. It was learnt that NANS had been factionalised into two groups with Adeyemi leading one of the factions. Further findings revealed that the visit of NANS loyal to Adeyemi was seen as an attempt to launch a reprisal attack on the other faction. A source told our correspondent that both teaching and non-teaching staff became agitated following the sound of gunshots and scampered for safety. According to the source, “Nobody knows what is going to happen next to any staff in the institution as the situation is getting serious by the day.” The NANS leaders reportedly stormed the institution in a tinted Jeep with NASS number plate. They allegedly blocked a gate that led to the entrance of the Rector’s office. Gunshot rocks Ogun poly, lecturers fleeWhen contacted, NANS chairman, Damilola Simeon denied knowing anything about the shooting. He confirmed that there was sound of gunshots shortly after he and his team arrived at the campus. Explaining the rationale behind the visit, he said he was in the school at the invitation of the Acting Rector, Job-Kehinde Olatunji. “I received a call from the Rector who told me the management and the students have reached an agreement over the last protest. I went there to meet with the Rector,” he said. The Public Relations Officer of the institution, Yinka Adegbite said there was no casualty. He said, “The NANS EXCO in Ogun State led by their Chairman, Comrade Damilola Simeon came to register their displeasure over how their chairman was treated yesterday. The matter of yesterday became a mob action, nobody could point out who attacked their chairman. “But in any case, the chairman was reportedly attacked, and so they came this morning to register their displeasure. While we were inside discussing with them, we heard the loud bangs outside. “We didn’t see any gun, and so I can’t say much. When people heard the sound, they got scared and assumed it was gunshot.”