Operatives of the Ibadan, Federal Capital Territory and Enugu zonal offices of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission have arrested 65 suspected Internet fraudsters. Multiple statements by the anti-graft agency’s Head, Media and Publicity, Wilson Uwujaren, said the suspects were arrested in various locations across the three states. In Oyo State, 50 suspects were arrested at Alaro Sango, Agbaje Ijokoro and Apete Aladura areas of Ibadan following intelligence on their alleged involvement in Internet fraud. Some items used in perpetrating the crime, one of the statements said, were recovered from the suspects, adding that the suspects included Badmus Abeeb, Ibrahim Ahmed, Adeyemo Babatunde, Abdulrashid Ajagbe, Olajide Peter, Hassan Atanda, Yusuf Salaudeen, Bello Bamidele, Adewale Tosin, Kolawole Olawale, Nicholas Ferdinand, Keshiro Olanrewaju, Falana Victor Dapo, Abogunrin Emmanuel, Bosun Tunde, Shelter Chibundo, Banjoko Idris and Adebayo Akorede. Others are, Awoyinka Ayodeji, Afonja Olarenwaju, Akingbade Taofeek, Ezekiel Adekunle, Ganiyu Sodiq, Abioye Abiodun, Ogunbayo Daniel, John Timileyin, Ominiyi Daniel, Adeniyi Sodiq, Joseph James, Adeyemi Oluwaseun, Adeleke Rasheed, Saliu Rasheed, Itoro Ime and Oseni Nasirudeen. In a similar development, operatives of the anti-graft agency in Abuja arrested nine suspects in the Gwagwalada New Layout area of the FCT following credible intelligence on their alleged nefarious activities. A statement on the arrest read in part, “The suspects arrested are Teddy Agbam, Abdullahi Abdulsamad, Abdullahi Abdulrasheed, Ehije Julius, John Stephen, Okorie Kalu Udo, Abrebor Promise, Abdulazeez Amin and Habib Abdulateef. “The items recovered from them are laptops and mobile phones. They were also found with substances suspected to be Indian hemp and other drugs.” Six suspects were also arrested in a sting operation at the Independence Layout area of Enugu metropolis on Saturday, June 4, 2021 following credible intelligence received on their alleged involvement in computer-related fraud. According to the anti-graft agency, the suspects are Ugochukwu Onyia, Osita Henry, Ephraim Johnson, Osondu Nnamere, Umahi Emmanuel and Ugochukwu Joseph. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com