Comedian, Otaghware Onodjayeke, popularly known as IGoSave, tells NOAH BANJO about some of his memorable travel experiences How many countries have you visited? I have travelled to over 50 countries. In which country did you have your most memorable travel experience? That would have to be Dubai, United Arab Emirates. What were some of the things that fascinated you about the country? The neatness and infrastructure arrangement in Dubai is topnotch. Perhaps because I am also a painter, I love details and clean finishing. The tourist sites there are uncountable and are constantly maintained to give one an unforgettable experience. What makes their culture unique? They have different arrays of foods. I consider their food culture to be second to none. What were some of the foods that tickled your taste buds while there? Their lasagna is still one of the best I have ever tasted. Lasagna is a wide, flat pasta noodle, usually baked in layers in the oven. The bottarga in Dubai is also awesome. It is often seen as a luxurious meal because its processes are time-consuming. To prepare it, one would have to take grey mullets, salt them, press them, and air-dry them for six months. The result is a solid hunk of eggs. When sliced and eaten or grated over pasta, it blossoms into a gloriously savoury, smoky and briny bouquet. In what country were you given the best reception? I give that to Austrians. From the desk of the passport control, one is welcomed with a very big smile. If one respects oneself and abides by the laws in Austria, one would enjoy one’s stay and the people there. Which tourist attractions have stood out for you over the years? I have visited a lot of tourist attractions around the world but the moment I treasured the most was a visit to the Eiffel Tower and Princess Diana’s accident site, both in Paris, France. How would you assess the security of lives and property over there compared to Nigeria? Nigeria has presently become a security failure, even compared to the most unstable countries in the world. Nigerians are scared to go about their daily lives for fear of attacks by terrorists, bandits, kidnappers, and even state security forces. Did anything remind you of home? Yes! The stable power supply in advanced countries always reminds me of the dismal electricity supply in Nigeria. Was there anything you saw in some of the countries you’ve visited that you would like to see replicated in Nigeria? I would like to replicate virtually everything in advanced countries, except racism. In those countries, infrastructure is well laid out and the well-being of citizens is constantly taken care of. Indeed, I long for the day that the quality of life in Nigeria would be at par with what obtains in first-world countries. What advice do you have for prospective travellers? When one travels, one should be law-abiding and one would most likely enjoy one’s stay anywhere in the world. Which other countries would you like to visit? There are many of them, but I will do as the spirit leads, and time permits. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com