Medical health experts have urged the Zamfara State Government to provide women survivors of recent cases of abduction and rape psychological support to enable them to recover from the traumatic experience. Psychological support to the rape survivors, they said, isrequired to prevent them from coming down with mental health problems in the future. The experts, who spoke to PUNCH HealthWise, equally want the government to sensitise the women on the need to seek help early, while also ensuring that they are given emergency contraception to prevent unwanted pregnancies. According to the experts, the government should ensure that the survivors can access prompt care in tandem with the standard treatment protocol for a rape survivor. Recall that an international medical organisation, Médecins Sans Frontières (Doctors Without Borders), had, on Thursday, in a statement, raised the alarm that cases of sexual violence had increased in Zamfara State in recent times. “From January to April, our teams in Zamfara have received over 100 survivors of sexual violence,” said MSF’s Dr. Noble Nma, medical activity manager in Shinkafi, where the MSF runs a clinic for survivors of sexual violence. Nma stated, “Women and sometimes men are abducted by armed men and subjected to violation for a few weeks before being returned to their community. This is in addition to the violence faced by women within the community itself.” He said rape survivors often seek support when it is late. He stated, “The survivors are afraid to take the roads, so they usually arrive at our clinics too late to prevent sexually transmitted infections and serious mental trauma. “They tell us that there are more survivors out there who are afraid to travel here, so we fear that we’re only seeing the tip of the iceberg.” Speaking in an interview with PUNCH HealthWise on how government could help such women avert unwanted pregnancies, a Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi Araba, Dr. Ephraim Ohazurike, said the survivors should be given emergency contraception. Ohazurike explained, “There is a treatment protocol for rape survivors. So, if the protocol is followed, part of it is to give them emergency contraception. If the protocol is followed, we will be able to prevent a lot of pregnancies. To continue reading this story, go to: https//healthwise.punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com