Senator Shehu Sani, who represented Kaduna Central in the 8th Senate has called on security agencies to allow protesters demonstrate peacefully at the #June12protests slated to hold nationwide on Saturday. The Senator via his Twitter page on Friday stated that protesters should be allowed to express their grievances without intimidation or attacks. “June 12: Protesters should be allowed to peacefully protest without suppression by security forces or intimidation and attacks by sponsored hoodlums.” He wrote. Powered by the hashtag #June12protests, several Nigerians on social media platforms have expressed their interest in protesting in different states in the country. Stating fears of a hijack, the President of the National association of Nigerian Students, Sunday Asefon announced the suspension of planned protests by the association on Friday. “Having considered the current security realities and the danger to the lives of our members in case of possible hijack of the planned protest, I in consultation with all the structures of NANS, therefore, announce the suspension of our proposed protest for June 12.” He declared. Security officials of different states in the country have also made known measures put in place as regards the proposed protests. As earlier reported by The PUNCH, heavily armed officers of the Police force, Army and Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps were seen conveyed in several vehicles while blasting sirens on major roads around the Osun state’s capitals, Oshogbo on Thursday. When contacted, Special Adviser on Security to the state governor, Abiodun Ige stated that the officers were engaging in a “show of force” ahead of the June 12 protests. “We don’t want anything called protest to be hijacked; it is a peaceful protest for you to say your mind, but that should not be hijacked by hoodlums.” He said Also speaking as regards the proposed protests, State Security Adviser for Kogi state, Commodore Jerry Omodara cautioned youths in the state to desist from any plans of protests. “Any youth we see tomorrow Saturday coming out to protest would have himself to blame. The governor is not going to allow anyone to disrupt the peace we are enjoying in Kogi State.” He warned. On another hand, the Lagos state police command denied being aware of any planned protests in the state. The statement by the spokesman for the command, Olumuyiwa Adejobi said, “The Lagos State Police Command wishes to state clearly that it is not aware of any planned protest in Lagos State to commemorate the 2021 Democracy Day on Saturday, 12th June, 2021.” “In this regard, the Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, CP Hakeem Odumosu, therefore appeals to members of the public to disregard any sit-at-home order called by certain groups which is being circulated in the social media and go about their lawful businesses as the police and other security agencies have made necessary arrangement to maintain law and order across the state.” He continued.