Fifteen months after five policemen attached to the Enugu State Police Command allegedly killed and buried a final year Law student of the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Augustine Ugwu, the police have yet to prosecute the errant cops. PUNCH Metro had reported that Ugwu was arrested by the local anti-cult outfit set up by late Chairman of the Nsukka Local Government Area of the state, Patrick Omeje, in a pub on April 23, 2020. He was later handed over to the officer-in-charge of the Anti-Cult Unit in Nsukka, DSP Nnamdi Ochin. Hours later, he was declared missing from police custody. Infuriated by his son’s disappearance, the father, Andy Ugwu, a retired police officer, petitioned the then Inspector-General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, who constituted a six-man panel of investigators led by Assistant Commissioner of Police, Gabriel Elaigbwu, to unravel the circumstances surrounding Augustine’s disappearance. The panel, in the course of investigation, found out that Augustine had been killed and buried in a shallow grave by the five policemen. The investigators later declared DSP Ochin, three sergeants working under him, Emmanuel Ibiam, Godwin Abel and Abu John, as well as ASP Peter Adu, the Nsukka Divional Crime Officer 3, culpable. Ochin and the three sergeants were arrested and taken to the Force Headquarters, Abuja. PUNCH Metro gathered on Monday that the four policemen had not been subjected to orderly room trial, let alone dismissed from the force. Sources told our correspondent that the police might likely not prosecute the killer-cops now that they were out of their command. The deceased’s father, Andy told our correspondent on the telephone that he had not heard anything about the case since the suspects were taken to Abuja. “I don’t know anything since they took them to Abuja. I think you need to call the Force Public Relations Officer to find out. They have released the remains of my son and I just buried him,” he stated. When the Force Public Relations Officer, Frank Mba, was contacted on the telephone, he said he had no information on the case. “I will find out and get back to you,” he stated, but as of the time of filing this report, he had yet to do so. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com