The Lagos and Benue state police commands said they had commenced investigation into the lynching of a suspected kidnapper and a motorcycle thief by mobs in both states. It was gathered that some residents of the Orile-Agege area of Lagos, on Tuesday, caught two suspected kidnappers in the area. It was learnt that the suspects allegedly abducted some schoolchildren and put them in a vehicle and were heading for an unknown destination. PUNCH Metro was told that the cries of some of the schoolchildren attracted the attention of a motorcyclist, who chased after the vehicle and alerted other road users. One of our correspondents learnt that the suspects were intercepted around the Mulero bus stop by a mob. It was gathered that one of the suspects was set ablaze, while the police rescued the other from the angry residents. An eyewitness, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said, “It was a motorcyclist who started chasing the kidnappers from the Ajegunle tollgate after some of the schoolchildren they kidnapped cried out for help through the windows of the vehicle conveying them. “It was at Mulero bus stop that residents intercepted their vehicle when the motorcyclist raised the alarm. One of the suspected kidnappers and the vehicle were set ablaze, while the police rescued the other one.” Confirming the incident, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, said in a statement that policemen from the Elere Police Division rescued one of the suspects, who suffered machete cuts, and took him to hospital. Adejobi stated that the state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, had ordered a discreet investigation into the matter and condemned the act of jungle justice. He said, “The Lagos State Police Command has commenced investigation into the killing of one man alleged to be a kidnapper and setting ablaze of a Golf car at Mulero bus stop, Agege, on Tuesday, June 8, 2021, around 8.17am. “Police operatives attached to the Elere Division, upon a distress call that some suspected kidnappers were being mobbed at Mulero bus stop by Omotoye Estate, raced to the scene, where a white Golf car and a male suspect had been set ablaze. “The police operatives moved in to rescue the other male suspect, who had been dealt several machete blows by the mob numbering over 2,000. While trying to rescue the other male suspect, the agitated crowd also attacked the policemen. The suspect was subsequently rescued and taken to hospital for treatment. “The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, Hakeem Odumosu, condemned the act of jungle justice and called for a discreet investigation into the case as he promised to continually kick against such an inhumane act.” Similarly, a young man, whose identity could not be immediately ascertained, was on Tuesday set ablaze for allegedly trying to steal a motorcycle in Makurdi, Benue State. The incident, according to an eyewitness, happened at the popular Wurukum Market in Markurdi. The eyewitness, who simply identified himself as Danladi, said a man had parked his motorcycle at the entrance to the market and went inside. “While in the market, some people, who were around the area, saw a young man, who just came out from nowhere and inserted his key into the motorcycle and was about taking off with it when people around the place raised the alarm. “As the people raised the alarm, the young man started running, but luck ran out on him as some youths ran after him, caught up with him and wasted no  time in looking  for a disused tyre, petrol and a box of matches and set him ablaze.” Another eyewitness, who simply identified himself as Adzegeh, said the young man was the third person to be set ablaze at Wurukum in recent times. Confirming the incident, the state Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Catherine Anene, condemned the act of setting suspects ablaze. “Incident confirmed and the act of setting a human being ablaze is condemned by the command. There are legal means of handling such issues,” Anene stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com