The National Association of Aircraft Pilots and Engineers, in partnership with Airtech Aviation Support Services, has launched a database for manpower availability in the Nigerian aviation sector. The database, known as AvianQDB, is expected to serve as a single resource point for manpower availability, aviation information and data in the sector, according to the statement. Airtech Aviation Support Services expressed optimism about the project. It said the database would provide a platform for industry professionals to register their profiles and upload certificates, licenses, thereby making them visible to prospective employers. The Group Chief Executive Officer, Airtech Aviation Support Services, Mr Bukola Nzegwu, said the certificates and licences uploaded on the database platform would be secured in Digital Ocean’s cloud and could be retrieved online for personal use by the professionals when needed. He said, “The database will provide visibility for aviation professionals to prospective airlines and aviation companies. Employers will access the database for a token fee. The database will provide skill gap analysis between what the industry needs and available manpower. It will also help track job market trend. “AvianQDB also has a unique feature that will send an email prompt to remind registered professionals when licences will expire so as to ensure aviation professionals always possess updated licences to operate. “The platform will also serve as depository of relevant local and international aviation information through feeds and links to aviation agencies.” The President, NAAPE, Mr Abednego Galadima, expressed delight at the launch of the platform and the association’s partnership with Airtech. “It is a great contribution to the development of the aviation industry,” he said. He said that AVIANQDB would serve as one-shop for aviation manpower solutions. He said the development of the database was in line with the association’s mandate to promote and protect the welfare and well-being of its members. He also urged the aviation stakeholders, especially pilots and engineers in the country, to patronise the platform. He said the application would provide tremendous benefits for both employers and employees, adding that it would also serve as a good guide for policy- and decision-makers. Airtech Aviation Support Services is an approved line maintenance organisation that has line stations in Lagos, Abuja and Accra. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com