Fourteen of the 25 directors on Salary Grade Level 17 in the Federal Civil Service who on Thursday sat for the Information Communication Technology proficiency test as part of the process of appointing them as permanent secretaries failed the examination, Saturday PUNCH reports. With the development, only 11 candidates will take part in the final stage which is oral interview. At the end of the oral interview scheduled for Monday, five of them will emerge permanent secretaries. The Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation announced the result of the test in a document dated June 3, 2021, a copy of which was obtained by our correspondent on Friday. The document titled ‘Re: Selection exercise for the appointment of permanent secretaries in the federal civil service’ was signed by Sunny Echocho on behalf of the Examination Committee. It read, “Following the conduct of the ICT proficiency test for the appointment of permanent secretaries in the Federal Civil Service on June 3, 2021, I am directed to invite the following 11 candidates for the oral interview. “Accordingly, the candidates are to report for the interview on Monday, June 7, 2021 by 8am at the Olusegun Obasanjo Hall, Block ‘A’, 4th Floor, Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Federal Secretariat Complex (Phase II), Abuja.” Names of the officials were however not indicated on the document. The candidates were identified by their service numbers. The candidates are competing to fill the vacancies of retired permanent secretaries and those retiring this year in five states of the federation. The affected states are Ekiti, Katsina, Nasarawa, Enugu and Lagos. The Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Dr Folasade Yemi-Esan, had in a circular dated March 29, 2021, announced the commencement of the appointment process. According to the circular, those who qualify to participate in the selection process are civil servants from the five states and who have become directors on Salary Grade Level 17 on or before January 1, 2019. Officers undergoing disciplinary actions were disqualified from participating in the process. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com