The Nigeria Police Force said several members of the Eastern Security Network and Indigenous People of Biafra had been killed during a shootout in Imo State. It also said three more camps linked to the group were destroyed in different parts of the state. It said the operation was carried out after an arrested IPOB/ESN kingpin led a combined team of policemen to the camps located in Atta, Ikeduru Local Government Area; Izombe, Oguta Local Government Area; and Ideato North Local Government Area of the state on Friday. The police, in a statement, said stolen cars, explosives, gun powder, charms, IPOB/ESN flags, ammunition and other weapons were recovered. The statement read partly, “Sequel to the arrest of IPOB/ESN commander in Imo State and his subsequent confessions, on 25/6/2021 at about 0400hrs, the IPOB/ESN kingpin led teams of police tactical squads of IRT, STS, special forces, AKU, QIT, and other Imo State command special teams to three IPOB terrorist camps in Atta area, Izombie area and Ideato North area,  in three different locations in Imo State. “The three camps were overrun by the tactical units of the Nigeria Police after fierce gun battles and several weapons, stolen cars, explosives, gun powder, charms, IPOB/ESN flags, ammunition, Indian hemp, tramadol, and many other hard drugs were recovered. “Several of the IPOB/ESN terrorist members were neutralised in the forest during the fierce gun battles.” Similarly, Michael Abattam, the Media Adviser to the Commissioner of Police, Abutu Yaro, in a statement, disclosed that the hoodlums opened fire on sighting the combined team of policemen, leading to a gun battle. Abattam, a Chief Superintendent of Police, “But, due to the superior firing power of the police the hoodlums were overrun by the tactical units, while some of the hoodlums escaped with bullet wounds into the forest. “The Commissioner of Police, CP Abutu Yaro, fdc, commended the efforts of the men and urged them to sustain the tempo. In like manner,  (he) thanked Imolites for their support and assured them of the command’s commitment in ensuring a crime-free Imo State.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com