THE Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodinma, has made a case for an additional state for the south- East. Uzodinma spoke during a public hearing organized by the House of Representatives Committee On Constitution Amendment, in Owerri, on Thursday. The governor said, “As Nigerians, we all want a country that should accommodate our legitimate desires without compromising the rights of others. It goes without saying therefore that the constitutional amendments that we all seek will address our fears as well as our expectations. “For us in the South East, we have made it abundantly clear that we believe in a united Nigeria that works for the benefit of all. Last week, when the leaders of the South East met with the Presidential delegation led by the Minister of Defence, we reiterated our stand that we don’t support secession. We also reaffirmed our quest for an equitable country where our youths do not get conflicting signals of being second-class citizens. “Fortunately, we are in a democracy where questions of doubt are resolved through dialogue and robust debate and not through violence or insurrection. That’s why this public hearing is most auspicious for the people of the South East.” Also, the Aba State Movement which also made a presentation at the event appealed to the committee to create Aba State out of the present Abia State. The first Abia State Attorney General, Chief Theo Nkire, who made the presentation on behalf of the movement explained that the agitation for the creation of the state has been on for over forty years. Abia State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, who was represented at the event by the Deputy Governor, Ude Oko, urged the National Assembly to expedite action on restructuring and devolution of powers to states. He expressed support for the creation of state police as well as fiscal federalism and a role for traditional rulers. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com