Prof Muhammed Abubakar is the Managing Director of Galaxy Backbone, a digital infrastructure and shared services provider with the responsibility of developing and implementing a national network and data infrastructure for public and private institutions. He speaks about the organisation’s role in driving digital governance in Nigeria in this interview with ALEXANDER OKERE How would you assess the performance of your organisation vis-à-vis digital services in the public sector since it birthed 15 years ago? Galaxy Backbone was established in 2006 by the administration of former President Olusegun Obasanjo due to the need to consolidate the disparate services of the various networks that were operated by the different ministries, departments and agencies of government.  The objective was to have a shared platform for Internet service delivery and information technology infrastructure for the public sector. In a way, it was intended to help save cost on the one hand and also ensure effectiveness of IT service to MDAs, on the other hand. Our relationship with other sister agencies has been very strong and you can view it from many perspectives, including the establishment of Galaxy Backbone itself. The first chairman of the board of Galaxy Backbone was Prof. Cleopas Angaye, who was the DG of National Information Technology Development Agency, under whose leadership Galaxy Backbone was established. We have quite a robust synergy with all the agencies under the supervision of the Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy, like NITDA, Nigerian Communications Commission, Nigerian Communications Satellite and the National Identity Management Commission. Our desire is to get all MDAs onboard as a preferred destination with respect to our quality of service. We develop transversal applications and automate government processes for the majority of the MDAs. We are committed to developing GBB infrastructure for the whole country and primarily in Nigeria and in Africa, especially West Africa. How do you plan to achieve this? To achieve this, we have developed a five-year strategic business plan for the organisation to clearly map out the path towards the attainment of the objectives. The plan is anchored on six pillars that will support the attainment of the strategic objectives. These pillars are government priorities, data sovereignty, financial sustainability, customer satisfaction, operational excellence and improved capabilities. Despite the enormous challenges that bedevilled the whole world in 2020, with the emergence of the novel coronavirus that resulted in the pandemic lockdown, we were still able to record significant achievements within the course of the year to support the developmental objectives of the Federal Government and our financial sustainability objectives. The onset of the COVID-19 pandemic compelled many government agencies to conduct their activities virtually. How did your organisation leverage this? For the records, COVID-19 was declared a pandemic in February, 2020, by the World Health Organisation, and by March, Nigeria also had joined the global lockdown. Thereafter, Mr President, Muhammadu Buhari, declared that the Federal Executive Council weekly meeting which helps to steer the affairs of the country will not sit physically again until things got better. Therefore, as part of the COVID-19 protocols of physical distancing, it was imperative that the activities of the government had to continue. At Galaxy Backbone, we have a mandate to make sure that we provide ICT services and solutions to the MDAs that would make them leverage on ICT to improve on service delivery, implement their mandate and, of course, improve necessary services for the country. Now, with the pandemic and the issue of the protocols, it was only technology that could make it possible for us to work, which made us come to the forefront. Aside from health workers who were categorised as essential workers during the lockdown period, we at Galaxy Backbone were also part of the essential services. Credit must be given to the Minister of Communications, Dr Isa Pantami, who has always been thinking ahead. Then history beckoned on March 22 or 23, 2020, with the information that there wouldn’t be a physical Federal Executive Council meeting. The minister called me that night and gave an ultimatum to ensure the Federal Executive Council returns to sit virtually in the nearest future. How did you implement that? Immediately, I quickly formed what we called the COVID-19 task team of Galaxy Backbone. Our mandate was to look at three fundamental objectives. First was the need to ensure continuity of communication to enable us to communicate amongst ourselves so we could do whatever was needed to be done. The second was to ensure business continuity as we needed to make sure we deliver our services to all our customers during the pandemic. Then the third and most fundamental is the government business continuity that ensures the government must continue to function despite these challenges. That was what happened and by the third or fourth week in April, we held the maiden virtual Federal Executive Council meeting and from that time to date, it has become history and till date the meetings are still holding virtually. What are your thoughts about the issue of security of digital platforms and services? We are very mindful of the challenges posed by cybersecurity. The objective of the cybersecurity partnership initiative is to create a sustainable ecosystem of OEMs, service providers, and local cyber security companies professionals that will help leverage GBB business model of delivering cyber security services to its customers. Galaxy Backbone signed a non-disclosure agreement with SHELT, a cybersecurity firm based in Cyprus and has relevant experience in the field. SHELT has conducted an extensive security risk assessment to determine GBB’s cybersecurity posture that will help identify the gaps in its current information security infrastructure and processes. The aim of the collaboration is to partner with GBB in developing its core security and the delivery of cybersecurity products and advisory services to GBB customers. GBB is also working on an NDA with Spire Solutions. Spire Solutions is a cybersecurity firm based out of the United Arab Emirate and is one of the leading value-added distributors of cybersecurity solutions in MEA. Spire Solutions regularly collaborates with governments, enterprises and systems integrators to deliver its solutions. What other areas of partnership have you explored? We also have extensive partnership in the area of Cloud Computing. The objective of the Cloud Computing Partnership initiative is to deploy world class cloud solutions, through an OPEX model, while leveraging GBB’s existing investments in datacenter Infrastructure. Galaxy is working on a partnership arrangement with Microsoft/Signal Alliance and IPI Solutions to leverage on their capability to optimise GBB services and solutions. There is also the Galaxy e-Connect. The objective of the Galaxy e-Connect partnership initiative is to leverage GBB’s existing metro fiber infrastructure to deliver FTTX and eLTE services to customers in housing estates and offices. GBB is creating innovative value, services, and solutions. GBB stands to benefit from this partnership through the full utilisation of its fiber optic metro and eLTE networks by delivering internet access with speeds of up to 40 megabit per second per household. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com