SEVERAL members of the All Progressives Congress in Abeokuta-North Local Government Area of Ogun State, on Tuesday, staged a protest over the alleged imposition of Adebayo Ayorinde as the chairmanship candidate of the party. The protesters, who were drawn from Oke-Ogun in the local government, alleged that the candidate imposed on them by the party was “unpopular.” Some of the protesters stormed the State Secretariat of the Nigerian Union of Journalists, Oke – Ilewo, Abeokuta on Tuesday to register their displeasure. The protesters demanded that the state Governor, Dapo Abiodun, should immediately withdraw Ayorinde and in his place announce Tajudeen Ishola as the rightful chairmanship candidate. Spokesperson for the protesters, Alhaja Fayidat Akintunde, while addressing the media on behalf of the group, alleged that some of the party’s leaders compromised the selection process by inducing delegates. Akintunde cautioned that the party could be consumed if it prefers to impose candidates rather than allow “rightful and popular candidates” emerge to contest elections on its platform, especially at the local government level. She said, “We are not against the governor, but we are saying that he should look into this matter very well. Some people cannot sit down somewhere and say they don’t want someone because of their selfish interest. “The people of Abeokuta North local government area know that Ishola has been the one that has been taking care of them for the past four years. He is the most popular candidate from the local government and we stand by him.” Another protester, Babatunde Olajumoke, from ward 11 said, “We want Tajudeen Ishola as our chairman for Abeokuta North Local Government Area and not Ayorinde. “We are from the Oke-Ogun area of the local government and we have been in support of Ishola from the beginning, we don’t know why the governor has chosen Ayorinde as the chairmanship candidate because he is not an active politician in the state.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com