Portugal’s Cristiano Ronaldo made history at Euro 2020 on Tuesday when he scored his 10th and 11th goals in a record fifth tournament appearance — making him the leading men’s scorer in the Championship’s history. The Portugal captain overtook France great Michel Platini with his goal against Hungary at the Puskas Stadium in Budapest when he converted a penalty kick in the 85th minute in their 3-0 win over Hungary. The Juventus striker took his tally to 106 goals in 176 appearances for Portugal, three fewer than Iranian Ali Daei’s all-time men’s record of 109 international goals. The all-time record is held by Christine Sinclair of Canada, with 186 goals. Ronaldo is the only man to score in five European Championship tournaments, extending his own record. “The most beautiful record would be to win the Euros twice in a row,” Ronaldo said, with Portugal looking to retain the trophy they won in 2016. Tuesday was cause for a double celebration for the Portugal talisman, who set a new men’s record for five Euros appearances. He first appeared at a European Championship in 2004 when he helped Portugal reached the final on home soil. He has played in every tournament since and scored in each. Spain’s Iker Casillas was part of five La Roja squads from 2000-16 but did not play in two of the tournaments, making Ronaldo the first man to be selected and play in five European Championships. The Juventus forward also extended his own record of most appearances at the Euros, moving on to 22. Ronaldo, who led Portugal to success at Euro 2016, could yet break more records as is level with Spain duo Andres Iniesta and Cesc Fabregas for most matches won in the tournament with 11. Following his appearance against Hungary, Ronaldo is three games away from breaking the record of 58 appearances in European competition (qualifying phase and finals), held by Italy goalkeeper Gianluigi Buffon. “Players who have longevity in football are those who can adapt,” Ronaldo said of the secret behind his long and successful career. “The numbers speak for themselves: I have adapted from 18 to 36. I always work to achieve things on a personal and collective level.” Ronaldo completed his third season at Juve, scoring 36 goals in 44 appearances despite missing several games due to COVID-19. The former Real Madrid star was unable to help Juve go past the round of 16 of the Champions League and the Turin giants also failed to win the Serie A title, finishing fourth — 13 points behind Scudetto winners Inter Milan. Ronaldo has a year left on his contract with Juventus but has not committed to the side and is expected to decide his future after the tournament is over. Portugal also take on France and Germany in Group F. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com