GOVERNOR Nyesom Wike says the curfew imposed in the wake of dastardly attacks on security formations and operatives in Rivers State will remain in place despite sponsored criticism against it. The governor, who reiterated that he was not unmindful of the traffic difficulty experienced by residence of the state, particularly in Port Harcourt and Obio-Akpor councils while trying to beat the 8.30pm curfew time, said it was better to suffer inconveniences and be alive. Wike, in a statement by his Special Assistant on Media, Kelvin Ebiri, defended the efficacy of the night curfew while speaking at the 60th birthday celebration of the federal lawmaker who represents Rivers South East district in the Senate, Senator Barry Mpigi, in Port Harcourt. “Some criminals, who have not been succeeding in kidnapping, have been sending people to go on radio to say the governor should be reasonable, and that they don’t want the curfew again. “Criminals are the ones who are doing that; I will not agree. Lives and property are important to me. All those criminals who have been sending  people to go on radio, that they are suffering, and that we should extend the curfew to 12am, to enable them kidnap people from 7pm, will not succeed. Don’t waste your time,” he stated. The governor explained that the imposition of the curfew was based on “security advice by law enforcement agencies, as a precaution to prevent further attacks on security formations in the state.” The governor also disclosed that approval had been given for a Nigeria Law School campus to be sited in Port Harcourt, the state capital. He also announced that a Federal High Court in Abuja had awarded $1.1bn to the state in a lawsuit against the Federal Government. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com