Dear Ma, I have been reading and digesting your articles on sexual purity for the past three weeks! How I wish I knew about you and what you teach earlier, I wouldn’t have messed up and failed everyone. Abigail Dear Sister Temilolu, Warm greetings to you. I was shocked when I was surfing the internet to solve some challenging questions and do justice to some topics in linguistics only to find your article about a female 42-year-old virgin in the 21st century! I thank God for the lady and your wonderful ministry! Please keep it up! Evangelist Emmanuel Ndehedehe Dear Aunty Temilolu, I’ve been reading your articles since I stumbled on you online. I appreciate the morals you are handing down to us but I must say it’s not easy to preserve one’s virginity in this day and age. I’m one of the strongest girls who refused to give up on the harshness of this world and hoping to see and experience the silver lining. However, it seems like nothing is happening. I’m already giving up! People are telling me to go get married or get into a relationship so a man can help me out. But I feel ashamed doing that out of my unsavoury circumstance as I know I would one day wake up and realise I don’t like the person and only forced myself into a relationship to solve my problems. Please counsel me ma. Gift, 23 My darling Gift and every lady in her shoes, Believe me; it is easy to be anything and everything you want to be even if you can’t afford a three-square-meal today! I know times are really hard but I insist not only can you survive, you can eventually have the best things in life! As females, we are created with so much virtue and innate gifts which can magnetise money to us and all we need do is to concentrate and develop ourselves optimally! I imagine what you may have been going through and I also imagine you may have reached a stage of despondency but you must never give up! Now is the time to utilise that gnawing pain in you and stretch yourself as much as possible to uncover the goldmine inside of you which would enable you to make money almost effortlessly! Can you use your brains for more intellectual pursuits? Can you use your beautiful hands to learn a skill right away? What’s your hobby? Turn it to a money-spinner! Just please get busy developing yourself and making the most of your life, virtues/potential and not making guys/men your focus. Little did you know guys/men see this generation of girls/young ladies as one of the cheapest things they could have! Yes! Ask your brothers, uncles, daddy etc. Most of them don’t place much value on how you feel especially when you devalue yourself by allowing them to sleep with you, frolick with your body, eat you up like mango and have their taste and full satisfaction of all your sexuality! They’re quick to mess around with your heart and throw the mango they’ve eaten away knowing there’s a long queue of girls waiting for their money and attention! Mind you, they don’t want to marry anything cheap either! Please don’t be quick or desperate to fall into any man’s arms who wants a serious relationship with you! You must develop yourself and discover your purpose in life real quick so your life can attract the right person and not a man that’ll end up treating you like a slave or a dog on a leash. Believe me, if a lot of women were well-prepared emotionally, psychologically, academically, financially, spiritually, it would be most difficult for any man or a satanically-patriarchal society to abuse them. I know a good number of your friends must be married to some rich men by now but can you please ignore them, stop wallowing in self-pity and pursue your own destiny? Spend all the time you have now learning life skills and not waiting for a rich man to come and rescue you! Spend your time learning one handicraft or the other and start making your own money! Use all the energy that comes with your present discomfort to garner the SUPERNAL FIRE OF GOD! Please, please endure the hardship for a while, refuse to defile your body- the temple of the Holy Spirit and see whether God will not over-satisfy you! May your life magnetise the world’s most honourable men and may you be pampered by kings! I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @ Okeowo Temilolu. Are you still engaging in pre-marital sex? Each act devalues you! Your wonders are waiting to start. God is waiting for you to become a secondary virgin! You are most welcome on board the chastity campaign train and Girls Club is open for all girls and ladies. Please text your name, age, school or occupation and state of domicile to 07086620576. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com