The Oyo State Governor,Seyi Makinde, on Tuesday appealed to the people of Igangan to cooperate with the government and security agencies to address the security challenge in the area. The governor, who said this during his visit to the community to sympathise with the victims and to assess the level of destruction done in the town byattackers, begged the people not to take the law as into their own hands. No fewer than 17 persons were killed in Igangan on Saturday by suspected herdsmen. But Makinde said he should be held responsible for the act, promising that such attack would never be allowed to happen there or anywhere in the state again. Makinde said, “Please, don’t take laws into your hands. I urge all the families that lost their loved ones to this attack, because sometimes, emotion can really be high. Please, give us the opportunity to resolve this and make this place better for you. “You must have seen the light-up project we embarked on. We are doing it for us to be able to see everywhere, whether it is day or night. Well, there are people who don’t want good for our state and country at large, but I believe that God will show us mercy.” One of the activists in the town, Oladiran Oladokun, who is also the Convener, Igangan Development Advocates in an interview with our correspondent, said governor needed to integrate hunters into the security arrangements in the area to boost security in the area. Oladokun said, “He needs to assist the injured victims to get better treatment. Some of them are in hospitals now but they need to be assisted to pay and those whose cases could not be treated here should be taken to better facilities.” Meanwhile, Yoruba activist, Chief Sunday Adeyemo aka Sunday Igboho, also visited the community. Although, Igboho’s spokesperson, Olayomi Koiki,  could not be reached by our correspondent to confirm his principal’s mission in the town, the video of the  visit to the town was posted on his Facebook page. But one of his aides, Dapo Salami, when contacted told our correspondent that Igboho visited Igangan on Sunday. Asked if he was prevented from combing the forest as reported by some, Salami said that was not true but he did not speak further on it. Also, residents of Igangan and other communities in Ibarapaland were still apprehensive of possible attack on Tuesday. Our correspondent gathered that  few pupils were allowed to go to school and the number was so small that teachers allowed those who turned up to go home before 10am. A teacher, who spoke on condition of anonymity said, “ We closed around 10am today (Tuesday). Many of the pupils did not come to school. Their parents rushed to school to withdraw them on Monday but today, about 85 per cent of the pupils did not show up.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com