The Institute of Directors has elected Dr Ije Jidenma as its new President and Chairman of Governing Council. The election which took place during the 37th Annual General Meeting of the institute in Lagos had Alhaji Tijani Borodo and Mr Adetunji Oyebanji elected as first vice president and second vice president respectively. These were disclosed in a statement by the organisation on Tuesday. According to the statement, Jidenma would be succeeding Chief Chris Okunowo, prior to her election as President & Chairman of Council, she had served as the First Vice President of the Institute. The statement read, “Jidenma is an accomplished management consultant and professional. She holds a PhD in psychology with a specialisation in psychometrics from the University of Lagos. “She is the founder and Chief Executive of Leading Edge Consulting and has consulted for SMEs, indigenous companies, the public sector, multilateral organisations and international non-governmental organizations. “She is also the managing partner of IRC Global Executive Search Partners, ranked as the fastest-growing Executive Search alliance in the world, with footprints in over 90 cities of the world and across six continents, where she currently leads its EMEA energy, natural resources and infrastructure practice. Earlier on in her career, she had worked in operational capacities as a training and development officer with the Industrial Training Fund from 1983-1986 and as a senior consultant with Price Waterhouse (now PwC) from 1986-1990. She later worked in executive capacities as Head of Human Resources as well as Head of Strategic Planning of Merchant Bank of Africa before leaving the bank in 1995 in pursuit of her doctorate degree.” The statement added Jidenma was a firm believer in the even distribution of God-given talents across the human race. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com