IKEA Foundation and the Rockefeller Foundation have said they plan to fund renewable energy projects in Nigeria, India and other developing countries with a special $1bn facility. IKEA foundation is the charitable arm of the world’s largest furniture retailer, IKEA.UL. The Financial Times reported that both foundations would be contributing $500m of risk capital each as they aim to reduce one billion tonnes of fossil fuel emissions and empower one billion people in the selected countries with distributed clean energy. They also said that they would be attracting extra funding of $10bn this year from international development agencies before opening up to institutional investors to expand investment in renewables. President of the Rockefeller Foundation, Rajiv Shah, was quoted as saying, “This can be commercially viable. There is $1bn taking risk upfront that can unlock tens of billions of dollars. “We are not gambling here. We have seen it work in India. We know what it takes to become successful.” Per Heggenes, Chief Executive Officer of the IKEA Foundation was quoted by FT as saying, “If global energy consumption doesn’t change from fossil fuels to renewable energy, we will not meet the Paris Agreement ambitions and millions of families will be left behind in poverty. “We need to be honest and recognise that the current approach is not delivering the impact the world needs in the time that we have.” The foundations have reportedly signed agreements with the International Finance Corp, an organisation affiliated with the World Bank, and the United States International Development Finance Corp. IKEA aims to be carbon negative by 2030 and its owner, Ingka Group, was quoted as saying in April that it had earmarked $4.75bn to invest in green energy projects. Nigeria is among the countries with the highest energy deficits, according to the World Bank. It estimated in a recent report that businesses in the country heaped on additional costs of up to $28bn due to the deficit. Experts have said that the best way to develop renewable energy projects in the country is to develop distributed mini-grids across communities that will provide power and enable wealth creation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com