A recent appeal by the World Health Organisation for “less politicisation of calls for an origin investigation” into the deadly coronavirus reflects the difficulties confronting scientists and intelligence agencies seeking to unravel the mysteries of the rampaging COVID-19 pandemic. The WHO’s appeal came shortly after President Joe Biden ordered United States spy agencies to investigate and report back in 90 days, collaborating with similar probes by Australia, European Union and Japan. It was followed by the familiar combative stance from China from where the virus first assaulted mankind in 2019. The world must overcome politicking and obfuscation to defeat COVID-19 by unmasking its origin and prepare for the next threat. That the major world powers are just launching a new vigorous effort to trace the origin of the virus is part of the unfolding human tragedy of a pandemic of epic proportions. The enquiry aims to settle the question: is the virus a natural, zoonotic organism transmitted from animal to man or a clone that escaped from a laboratory? It is a major challenge for the global scientific community and multilateralism. Many now believe that the earlier conclusions reached by most scientists and WHO discounting the lab hypothesis was hasty. China’s cover-ups, bullying and limited cooperation with world bodies and other countries, and the bumbling of the Donald Trump-led US government that deployed the outbreak as a sparring weapon against its rival, while downplaying its ferocious impact, cost the world dearly. Precious time was lost in undertaking a thorough investigation and containment measures, more lives were lost and the global economy devastated. By June 11, 174.5 million confirmed cases had been reported worldwide since the first recorded case in December 2019 in the Chinese city of Wuhan; 3.77 million people had died per WHO figures. The US, Brazil, and India, with 614,007, 482,135 and 363,097 respectively have the highest death figures. In Nigeria, the Nigerian Centre for Disease Control said that by June 10, 167,027 cases and 2,117 deaths had been recorded since the first case in February 2020. Worldometer reports that 220 countries and territories have reported cases in the fast-mutating virus with at least six variants identified. Its economic impact is seismic. The global GDP contraction of 5.2 percent in 2020 said Bloomberg, was the biggest since the Great Depression (1929-33).About 255 million full time jobs were lost, reckons the International Labour Organisation, while America’s Pew Research Centre calculated that about 150 million middle class persons slipped down the economic ladder globally. By April 2021, governments and agencies had ploughedin anastonishing $26 trillion worth of crisis support, while $19.5 trillion had been added to the global debt burden by January. Lockdowns, including of entire countries, quarantines and travel restrictions are still ongoing. With Trump’s ouster via the 2020 election and Biden’s ascension, cooperation among Western allies is being restored and confidence renewed in multilateral agencies like the WHO. Fealty to the objective results of scientific research has been restored. Rid of the science-denying Trump crowd, America and the world can now undertake the arduous task of tracing the origin of the virus. The COVID-19 disease 2019 is a communicable respiratory disease caused by a new strain of coronavirus– SARS-CoV-2 –that causes severe illness in humans. Spread from person to person through infected air droplets projected during coughing or sneezing, it can also be transmitted by contact with contaminated hands or surfaces. Prevailing scientific opinion is that the virus began in animals–bats are the chief suspects–but that at some point, one or more human humans were infected through an animal and thereafter, transmitted to other humans. Here is the rub: when the first cases emerged in Wuhan late in 2019, it was traced to people who had been at the city’s “wet market,” a large live animal and seafood market.Instinctively, Chinese authorities reported late to the WHO, imposed physical and information quarantines on the district and would not cooperate fully with global health agencies. Speculation that the virus might have inadvertently escaped from the Wuhan Institute of Virology attracted China’s anger and a resistance to impartial scientific enquiry. Its politicisation as a prop in Trump’s trade war with China promoted conspiracy theories instead of prompt investigation. But the world must unravel the mystery, both to solve the ongoing pandemic that is in its second wave in many countries, and to equip the world to prevent other disasters and combat future outbreaks. The lab leak hypothesis has gained fresh impetus. British intelligence suggests its “strong possibility” like US spy agencies, a contrast with their earlier reasoning that leakage from a lab was remote. The Wall Street Journal said “the most compelling reason to favour the lab leak hypothesis is firmly based in science.” Experts say the virus, in its behaviour and rapid mutations, exhibit unusual characteristics that suggest possible lab alteration of its genome, its cell blueprints. Intelligence sources also wonder why several researchers at the Wuhan lab fell ill and required hospitalisation in November 2019. In its defence, the Chinese deny that the pandemic started in China, saying it broke out in several places, but was only first reported in China. No one else believes this. The world now demands full disclosure from China to confirm or dispel the lab hypothesis. It should oblige. Complete understanding is essential to enable the world protect lives and the economy. The G-7 should follow up its call on China to great full access to international investigators in Wuhan with vigorous diplomacy. Authoritarian regimes should stop cover-ups and insular politics over human tragedies. Such behaviour by the defunct Soviet Union worsened the impact of the 1986 Chernobyl nuclear plant disaster, leading to unnecessary deaths and effects projected to last another 180 years according to History Channel. China’s blanket cordon of the Xinjiang province is alleged by the UN Human Rights Commission to be preventing aid to the ethnic Uighur victims of repression. North Korea’s self-imposed isolation has blocked aid from reaching victims of famines there since the 1990s. China should be told that being a world power comes with the leadership responsibility of making the world safe from diseases and human suffering. For the safety of the entire human race, the world must overcome China’s churlishness and go to great lengths to trace the virus’ origin and contain its spread. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com