Prominent Nigerians have received with displeasure the news of the suspension placed on the operations of Twitter in Nigeria. The suspension was announced by the Ministry of Information and Culture, citing the “persistent use of the platform for activities that are capable of undermining Nigeria’s corporate existence.” The Federal Government then directed the National Broadcasting Commission to immediately commence the process of licensing all OTT and social media operations in Nigeria. Reacting, the immediate past Senate President, Bukola Saraki, tweeted, “No sir! This should not be the response from the president of a nation with a vibrant youthful population for whom #Twitter is part of their daily lives and a source of their income and livelihood. This must be reviewed.” Ex-minister Oby Ezekwesili advised the Federal Government to re-examine the decision and walk away from it. “How can a ban of @Twitter be the best response our @NGRPresident and @NigeriaGov can offer in a situation that required introspection and remorse? The Ghanaians say, “If no one advises you, advise yourself”. Please introspect and walk away from this bad decision,” she tweeted. Ben Bruce who represented Bayelsa East at the Senate described the suspension as a goof. He said, “Nigerians deserve their right to free speech. The Twitter ban in Nigeria is hasty and unnecessary. I hope the government sees its error and quickly corrects this goof.” Former Senator representing Kaduna Central, Shehu Sani said, “Twitter suspension, a bad legacy.” However, former presidential aspirant, Adamu Garba, welcomed the Federal Government’s decision which came just a few days after Twitter deleted tweets by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). The President’s tweets which many considered controversial were on the Biafran War of 1967-1970 wherein many lives were lost. Reacting to the government’s decision, Garba tweeted, “Excellent! There should always be consequences for anyone threatening the peaceful co-existence of Nigeria.” Reno Omokri, a former aide to ex-president Goodluck Jonathan, said, “Understandably, @Buhari is upset by the disciplinary actions meted on him by @Twitter after he violated their policy. However, Nigeria is more than the feelings of one individual.” Also reacting, Kingsley Moghalu, who contested in the 2019 presidential election, said, “Nigeria has joined a small, exclusive club along with Brazil, Venezuela and USA whose Presidents Jair Bolonaro, Nicolas Maduro and Donald Trump were sanctioned by @Twitter. A significant achievement in international relations!”