Twenty-one directors on Salary Grade Level 17 in the Federal Civil Service who sat a written examination as part of the process of appointing them as permanent secretaries failed the examination, The PUNCH has learnt. The 21 directors were among 46 senior officers who took the examination in Abuja on Monday. The remaining 25 of them, who passed the examination, are now qualified for the next stage, which is the Information Communication Technology proficiency test holding on Thursday (today). Although the Federal Government had in May announced the shortlisting of 47 directors for the examination among the 51 candidates who earlier faced a panel, results of only 46 directors were seen on the list of the result obtained by our correspondent on Wednesday. The document, titled ‘Re; Selection exercise for the appointment of permanent secretaries in the federal civil service,’ was dated June 1, 2021, and signed by Sunny Echocho on behalf of the examination committee. Our correspondent reported that the 25 directors who passed the written examination and were invited for the next stage were those who scored 50 and above in the examination. The 21 directors who failed the examination were those who scored below 50. A candidate with 33.5 was the director with the lowest score in the examination. The director with 68.5 was the candidate with the highest score. Names of the officials were, however, not indicated on the document. The candidates were identified by their service numbers. Those who pass the ICT test on Thursday will qualify for the last stage, which is an interactive session with a broad-based panel of experts and practitioners. The candidates are competing to fill the vacancies of retired permanent secretaries and those retiring this year in five states of the federation. The affected states are Ekiti, Katsina, Nasarawa, Enugu and Lagos. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com