THE absurd insistence on police reports by hospitals before treating accident and gunshot victims has again sadly claimed the life of a promising youth. That human life is cheap in Nigeria is not in dispute. But the continued loss of precious lives on ridiculous grounds should be curbed and quickly too. The latest victim, a music producer, Ebenezer Ayeni, would probably have been alive today if the dysfunctional health sector had not failed him. The 30-year-old about-to-wed Ayeni was reportedly shot by armed robbers who invaded his residence in Ibadan, Oyo State, on June 10. His friends stated that Ayeni was rushed to the University College Hospital, Ibadan, and another private hospital, but both facilities refused to treat him without a police report. In the ensuing helplessness, Ayeni was said to have bled to death two hours later. This bizarre act has irritatingly been sustained for a long time. A police report was also demanded by the Bowen University Teaching Hospital, Ogbomoso, Oyo State, as doctors battled to save the life of one Kazeem, who was shot during last year’s #End SARS protests witnessed in many southern states. One of the late Kazeem’s siblings, Isiaka Jimoh, noted in an interview: “They were attending to him, but they asked us to produce a police report before they would remove the bullets from his stomach.” A police report has become a requisite before hospitals can attend to medical emergencies in Nigeria. Many people have lost loved ones to the notorious act unofficially designed by security agents to arrest injured, fleeing robbers or at best deny them treatment. But ex-President Goodluck Jonathan, in December 2014, signed into law the National Health Act, which criminalises the demand for a police report by any health facility before attending to medical emergencies. Section 20 (1) of the Act states that a health care provider, health worker or health establishment shall not refuse a person emergency medical treatment for any reason whatsoever. Subsection (2) states that any person who contravenes this section is guilty of an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine of N100,000 or imprisonment for a period not exceeding six months or to both. In subsection (3), it notes, “Without prejudice to section 19(1) and except for psychiatric patients, a health care provider may refuse to treat a user who is physically or verbally abusive or who sexually harasses him or her, and in such a case the health care provider should report the incident to the appropriate authority.” Noticing that the law had lacunas, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), reviewed it and assented to the Compulsory Treatment and Care for Victims of Gunshot Bill, 2017 that December. The Act makes it compulsory for hospitals to treat accident and gunshot victims. In addition, the victims must be treated with or without a monetary deposit. It appears the law is merely a paper tiger as subsequent events in both public and private hospitals indicate. There is neither enforcement nor implementation. After the all-important law was made, the government brashly went to sleep. Security agents, especially the police rank and file, continue raiding hospitals in a commando-style to harass medical workers treating gunshot or accident victims. They ride roughshod on them; arresting, extorting and brutalising them. In reaction, medical professionals, who should join forces to end the flagrant lawlessness, kowtow to the aberration. They feed the sickening situation by bargaining for their release, for fear of losing patients to police harassment and unwittingly encourage the illegal request for a police report before attending to emergencies. It is troubling that government hospitals are also part of the preposterous charade. Rather than be guided by their Hippocratic Oath, doctors surrender to the tyranny of police misbehaviour. Medical professionals have often accused security agents of manhandling and humiliating them over the treatment of gunshot and accident victims. But they should have moved beyond complaints to action such as lawsuits and petitions to the highest authorities. There is a law backing them in that regard and they must be willing to uphold it for the public good. The police and their sister agencies should be aware of their duties to the state and abide by the laws of the land. No one, no matter how highly placed, is above the law, but impunity has become part of the country’s national life. A law mandates medical workers to extend medical attention to everyone seeking it. The security agents have no powers to flout it under whatever guise. They should be guided by international models where security forces encourage adequate treatment of suspects to aid further investigation and intelligence gathering. The Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, and other top officers have a mandate to pass the law down to the rank and file. Scapegoats must be made of officers hell-bent on flouting the law. They must be made to face the full wrath of the law to discourage aspiring lawbreakers. Security agents are legally bound to operate within and enforce laws, not flout them. Non-governmental organisations and civil society groups cannot fold their arms on this illegality. The Nigerian Medical Association, Nigerian Bar Association and Association of General and Private Medical Practitioners, including other stakeholders, should rise against this ugly situation. Hospitals can make banners to project the law for overzealous security agents who bask in ignorance and impunity. The ministries of health of the federal and state governments should collaborate to uphold the law and other far-reaching aspects of the Act to improve healthcare delivery in the health sector. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com