The Borno State Police Command, on Monday, paraded nine suspects, who allegedly specialised in robbing bank customers and Point of Sale terminal operators in Maiduguri and environs. The suspects, who were arrested between April and June in Maiduguri and other locations, were said to have been found with millions of naira and other valuables allegedly stolen from their victims. The command’s Public Relations Officer, SP Okon Edet, while briefing journalists, disclosed that the arrests were made due to the rising crime rate in the state, where armed hoodlums would attack and dispossess PoS operators of huge sums of money and some would trail and rob customers leaving bank premises. While tracking the suspects, police personnel were said to have recovered six assorted vehicles, two PoS machines, six fabricated duplicate car keys, corrosive substances used for breaking vehicle glasses and N14.5m. The statement read in part, “On April 29, 2021, around 9pm, the command received a report through the GRA Division that around 8.45pm, some hoodlums operating in a black Golf vehicle attacked and robbed a PoS operator at Circular Road, Polo area of Maiduguri of the sum of N2.5m. “On the receipt of the report, the command launched a manhunt for the criminals and consequently, one Akachukwu Emmanuel was arrested by the Lamisula Police Division. His confession led to the arrest of one of his accomplices, Isa Goni, at Kano municipality. Other accomplices, who are at large, are still being trailed by operatives of the command. “Between May 15, 2021 and May 28, 2021, operatives of the command, in an intelligence-driven operation, arrested the following persons: Mallam Hamisu; Alhaji Umar Samalia, alias Dan Babur; Alhaji Habibu Garba, alias Senator; Alhaji Ali Yahaya; and Mari Paul, who specialise in trailing unsuspecting citizens, especially those just coming out from banks, break into their cars and steal money kept therein. “The suspects were trailed and arrested by crack operatives in different cities namely: Maiduguri, Jos, Kano and Jalingo in Taraba State.” “Upon interrogation, the suspects were said to have confessed to stealing N23m from a vehicle parked inside the Musa Usman Secretariat and another N2.5m from a vehicle belonging to one Aliyu Ali at a mosque in Maiduguri. They equally confessed to carrying out these dastardly acts in Kano, Abuja, Sokoto, Zamfara, Jigawa, Jos, Yola, Damaturu and Jalingo.” The statement added that two other suspects, Mallam Mari and Abba Ibrahim, were also arrested in possession of Indian hemp estimated to be worth around N3.5m at the Jajeri Ward in Maiduguri. Edet added that all the suspects would be charged upon the conclusion of investigation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com