The Aare Ona Kakanfo of Yorubaland, Aare Gani Adams, has called on the United Nations, the African Union and the United States of America to intervene in the recent killings in the South West, warning that “the bubble may burst soon.” The Aare, in a letter, titled, ‘Urgent need to stop killings by Fulani herdsmen in Yorubaland,’ which he also copied the British Government, the European Union, and the Economic Community of West African States, urged the international community to come to the aid of the Yoruba. The letter read in part, “Yorubaland has been put under serious pressure through payment of ransom – running into millions of naira – demanded by conscienceless, unscrupulous and ruthless murderers. The agitation for them to leave our land has reached an alarming crescendo. “The backing (the belief of our people) by the Federal Government that ‘nobody can chase anybody from any part of the country’ is not helping matters. “The peace, stability and tranquility of Yoruba people are being tested by blood-thirsty maniacs, who rape, kidnap and murder.” Adams also called for action against the “agenda’ and pogrom gradually being executed in Yorubaland,” citing the recent invasion of Igangan, a rural community in Ibarapa land, Oyo State on June 6, 2021, where suspected Fulani herdsmen killed many villagers. He berated the President, Major General Muhammad Buhari (retd.), for his recent order to the Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, to retrieve land for herders and for “openly threatening governors for banning open grazing.” “I want to say that nobody wants war, but our people will not sit idle while they are being slaughtered. I am raising this alarm because what is going on is provocative and the bubble may burst soon,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com