The Head of the military junta in Mali, Colonel Assimi Goita, has now ‘legitimised’ his government by intimidating the country’s constitutional court to swear him in as its new President. Mali is facing an existential threat from the Islamic State West African Province and other insurgent groups that are attacking, killing, maiming and displacing Malians in different parts of the country.  France and the Economic Community of West African States had  to send  military contingents and arms to assist the Malian Army which lacked the capacity and means to contain these  attacks. But for this support, the entire Malian territory would have long been overrun by the terror groups. It is in the midst of this crisis that Colonel Goita found it expedient to overthrow an elected government, knowing that his action would strengthen the arms of the enemies of Mali, meet with stiff opposition from ECOWAS, the international community, and increase the sufferings of the Malian people. Goita intended to imitate the military takeover in Chad, but naive about the dire consequences. Chad is in Central Africa and Mali is in West Africa, where military takeover of governments by force of arms is forbidden. The junta was immediately slammed with stiff sanctions;  the first of which was the expulsion  of Mali from ECOWAS, and the African Union with more stringent sanctions to follow. As a compromise, and to normalise the situation, ECOWAS established a transition government, headed  by a civilian President, with Goita as the Vice President. But, the junta scuttled this arrangement some months later, and on May 24, 2021, Goita assumed  full powers as the President of the country. The junta, then, invited Russian troops to replace the French contingent and the International Military Task Force. The junta also replaced provincial governors, prefects and civilian administrators with military officers, while  soldiers were reported to be scrambling for  positions in the government. The second putsch, which violated the agreement on the transition programme, is putting to test ECOWAS’ will and ability to enforce its rule on unconstitutional change of government in member states. ECOWAS must, therefore, at this point, dramatically increase the pressure on the junta to respect the transition programme as agreed upon ab initio, with President N’Daw heading the transition. The Communique issued on June 19, 2021 after the 59th Ordinary Session of the ECOWAS Authority of Heads of State in Accra, accepted the transition programme of the Malian junta, based  on the assumption that the junta will act in good faith and  conduct a credible election in early 2022. The policy of appeasement will not work here, but will rather increase the intransigence of the junta, and make the resolution of this crisis, more and more difficult to resolve peacefully. The junta is now calling the shots, which should be the other way round. France had also expressed deep concerns about the weak  response of ECOWAS to the Malian crisis.  The body must therefore respond in a more forceful and robust manner, to maintain its integrity, now and in future. The President Goodluck Jonathan mediation  team should therefore be upgraded to include serving   Heads of State, possibly with the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), President Macky Sall of Senegal and four Generals from the Armies of Cote D’Ivoire, Ghana, Nigeria and Guinea Conakry to strengthen  Jonathan’s team, as mediators of peace or confrontation. Meanwhile, the following additional measures should be taken against the Malian junta: In conclusion, the Malian crisis is a test of will for ECOWAS. And the stakes are very high for social stability and the credibility of ECOWAS to rein in recalcitrant members. Mali will for sure be overrun by ISWAP if the junta should remain in power. Moreover, the Armed Forces of other countries in Africa may be tempted to follow the bad example of the Malian Junta. ECOWAS must therefore be resolute and respond in like manner; as it did in Sierra Leone, Liberia, The Gambia and Guinea Bissau to maintain peace and stability in West Africa. Ambassador Akinkuolie was Director of Trade and Investment, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Abuja. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com