The Movement for the Actualisation of a Sovereign State of Biafra on Tuesday said that the success of the Monday sit-at-home order declared by the Indigenous People of Biafra had shown that nobody can ignore the Igbo any longer. MASSOB’s leader, Uchenna Madu said the overwhelming compliance to the order had proven that the Igbo had unshakable love for the agitation of a Sovereign State of Biafra. He said, “Our people have dramatise a strong statements that can never be ignored. The sacrifices, dehumanization, subjective and inhumane sufferings our parents underwent during Nigeria Biafra war shall never be forgotten. “The deep hatred and conspiracy of British government in collaboration with northern Arewa people exhibited against the people of Biafra during the Nigeria Biafra war are  still very fresh in our memories. The spirit of Biafra can never be quenched. “The people of Biafra have once again demonstrated their unshakable and undeniable love and quest for Biafra. “This year’s overwhelming compliance  of the sit at home commemoration of Biafra anniversary day will motivate the United Nations and other relevant international organs to consider organising a referendum to determine the independence of Biafra from the Nigeria state. “MASSOB can never forget the personal sacrifices of General Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu who still remains the overall leader of Biafra nation.” Normalcy returns to Imo Residents of Imo state have resumed their normal daily businesses after the Monday Sit-at-home order given by the Indigenous People of Biafra to the South-East people. Our correspondent reported that while the roads were flooded with vehicles, commercial motorcycle rider, barrow pushers and pedestrians, markets, banks, filling stations, mobile food vendors artisans, eatery joints boomed with activities. Also, road blocks and security check points mounted by security personnel in some areas were still intact. At the Owerri Main Market, Relief market, Timber Market and Nworie Lane market, sellers and buyers were seen doing business. ”Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com