A woman from South Africa, Gosiame Thamara Sithole, made headlines at the beginning of last month after she claimed to give birth to 10 babies – seven boys and three girls – in a single pregnancy. Because of this record-breaking claim, it was speculated that the lady could be in the running for the Guinness World Record title for delivering most children at a single birth to survive. However, after an enquiry, it was discovered that Sithole had misled the world. She was never pregnant. It was a scam. According to reports, some medical tests confirmed that she was not even pregnant recently, which disproved the claim completely. She is now a subject of enquiry under the Mental Health Act and is kept under observation. Certainly, for making such outrageous claims with fake pictures to go with it, it is natural that her sanity was questioned. On the surface, this is just another case of a mentally challenged individual “misleading the public”; but when one takes time to situate it against the socio-cultural milieu the act was carried out, it becomes an entirely different kettle of fish. More so, considering the unfortunate irony that the crime was committed in Africa by someone named “Sithole” – a name that rhymes with the Trumpist Africa-bashing lingo “Shithole countries”. There is a troubling reality here. Sithole’s tale found its way into Pretoria News. How did such news climb without verification into credible media outlets? It was picked up by a number of international mainstream news channels because of this fact. The previous reports by the BBC were published after the local Mayor in the Guateng province confirmed the birth of the 10 babies. How could a highly placed government official confirm something that did not exist? Later, a government spokesman clarified that the mayor only had the family’s word and nobody actually saw the babies. The answer to the questions is simple. The people involved did not carry out routine check as required. The journalists did not investigate the claims; the politicians did not verify the testimony. This situation would look like negligence at the superficial level, but to me, it has something to do with a deep-seated attitude. It is a symptom of what could be described as “zero research syndrome”. It is real, it is happening. It is tormenting Africa right now. And we need to do something about it, urgently. As research evolves, it becomes embedded in culture. Our continent is known for expecting interventions from the international community, because our problems are usually solved by others. Of course, Research and Development is the structure for problem-solving. Here, there are no think tanks. There are near-zero number of research-based institutes. In Nigeria, for instance, the statutory research agencies – like the National Agricultural Seeds Council – have no research oriented seed bank. The governments in the region would rather spend money on importing fancy cars for their unruly convoys than on green houses for rudimentary agricultural research. The worn-out excuse is that Africa is poor; but when it comes to maintaining greedy public officers, the argument is conveniently tossed out of the window. The most saddening of all is the way research and development has been substituted with praying and fasting. Our political elite budget millions of dollars to sponsor religious pilgrimages and prayer sessions because they believe it is better to depend on God who “sees the unseen” than on R&D, which is at best “the wisdom of man”. Just last week, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation released a sobering report which stated that no country in Africa is spending one per cent of its Gross Domestic Product on R&D. Whereas, globally, spending on science and the number of scientists have been rising in the past five years – a trend that was pushed further by the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Launching UNESCO’s latest science report, “The Race against Time for Smarter Development”, Audrey Azoulay, the director-general of UNESCO, called for more investment in science in the face of growing crises, in order to make science less unequal and more open to all communities. She affirmed that today’s challenges, such as climate change, biodiversity loss, a decline in ocean health and pandemics, are all global and that is why we must mobilise scientists and researchers from all over the world. Low spending on scientific research is pervasive in Africa, as all countries on the continent were among the 80% of countries worldwide that invested less than one per cent of GDP in scientific research. In this regard, Africa’s share of global expenditure on R&D remained constant at 1.01% between 2014 and 2018 but, in sub-Saharan Africa, it dropped from 0.44% to 0.42%. These figures are depressing because of the population of the continent and the growing needs of its inhabitants. We are the worst hit by climate change, so we need more research-driven resilient innovations to adapt.  As a matter of fact, if the emerging problems must be solved, then research and development must take centre stage. We are stuck on a bad patch. As of 2019, the total population of Africa is estimated at 1.3 billion, representing 16% of the world’s population. Yet, Africa generates less than one per cent of the world’s research. Nevertheless, in order to give balance to this perspective, it must be pointed out that there is hope in the horizon – albeit tiny. There is noticeable progress in research and development which creates a potential for future scientific eclipse in the region, if the governments are determined to adapt. For instance, the UNESCO report pointed out that the number of active tech hubs and incubators in Africa had more than doubled since 2016 to 744 as of 2020. Instructively, almost half of them are located in just five countries, namely, Nigeria (101), South Africa (91), Kenya (70), Egypt (55) and Morocco (41). The road is rocky, but we can navigate it. There are many factors militating against research in Africa. The first obvious one is the political will on the side of the political class, to move the people forward towards science and technology without depending on the handouts of foreign donors. The rest of the factors are technical and can be surmounted with proper planning and establishment of special purpose vehicles like the yet-to-be activated Pan-African Intellectual Property Organisation. “The high cost of registering intellectual property and the lack of a common system is hindering patenting in Africa and the problem is unlikely to be resolved in the near future, since the Pan-African Intellectual Property Organisation is taking longer than expected to become operational,” the UNESCO report had stated. Therefore, there is an urgent need for science, technology and innovation to become a greater focus of national developments across the continent in order to reach the goals to enhance Africa’s growth and participation in the global economy. The Internet is a tool that will ensure a quicker way to this destination. African governments should ensure there is cheaper access to the Internet, as it will encourage the youths who are boiling with energy to explore opportunities that are now embedded in their smartphones. More specifically, since most of developmental problems are interrelated, there must be an innovative way to make everything fall into place. The continent faces significant challenges around food security, climate change, infrastructure development, poverty, energy, water sanitation, life expectancy, communicable/non-communicable disease management, and HIV/AIDS. Members of the research community need access to the tools and skills that would help them get to the root of these challenges in an integrated fashion. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com