A section of the popular Ladipo auto spare parts market in Lagos got burnt on Sunday, May 30, 2021. Two of the affected dealers, Messrs Peter Okeke and Emmanuel Ikechukwu, tell GODFREY GEORGE about their losses What is your name? My name is Mr Peter Okeke. I am from Enugu State. I own a shop at the Alapeju section of the Ladipo Spare Parts market, Mushin, Lagos State. Where were you when the fire started? I was in church already that Sunday when I was phoned and informed of the fire. I had missed a lot of calls, since using phones was not allowed in the church. When I saw the calls as they kept coming in from different numbers, I had to go out to pick the call. When they told me what was happening, I just stood there (confused). I think I blanked out for a minute. My whole world came crashing down before my eyes. I thought of my wife and four children and my extended family in the village. I was still on the phone and it was the “Hello! Hello!” that I kept hearing that snapped me back to reality. I didn’t know if I should tell my wife, because I didn’t want her to panic. I just went back into the church, told her I had something urgent to handle at the shop and told her to be calm and go home after the mass. When I got to the shop, all I saw was fire, serious fire. I have two shops – one on the first floor, the other on the ground floor. I also have a parking store. The shop upstairs got burnt completely. I couldn’t move a ‘pin’ out of it. Everything got destroyed. One thing that broke me was watching my sweat of over 27 years go down the drain. How much do you think you lost to the fire? I am sure it is nothing less than N8m, because I just stocked my shop with new goods. Some said the fire was ‘manipulated’ by some persons. Do you share in this sentiment? Well, I wouldn’t like to go into all that now, but if indeed it was someone that set the shops on fire, I wonder what their gain will be. We are all in this country together, struggling together to make ends meet and have for ourselves a good life. I give God all the glory that no one was sleeping in the shop or trapped inside by the fire. One thing I believe is that once there is life, there is hope. The Lagos State Government visited the scene on Monday. What did they say? They came to inspect the place, see our union leaders and the owner of the shopping complex that was affected. They also addressed the traders, saying we should not panic, that the government has everything under control, and that we can get our shops back when the shop is rebuilt. The incident was just too sudden, but I take solace in the fact that God knows all about me and he will never let his children down. How’s your family taking it? My children are still quite young, so they do not understand the extent of the experience. It is my wife that needs consoling, because she knows how we struggled to get to where we are now, and seeing it go away in a twinkle of an eye is still like a dream to her. What is your name? My name is Mr David Emamnuel Ikechukwu. I am from Enugu State. I am in my 30s. I sell motor spare parts at the Alapeju section of the Ladipo Market, Mushin, Lagos. I am the Chief Executive Officer of St. Emmanuel. How long have you been doing this business? I have been involved in this trade since 2005. That should be 16 years now. I came to the market to begin this business and try to make something good for myself. How lucrative is the business? Well, honestly, it is not all rosy, because it is not every time people get to buy motor spare parts, but the way I structured my business, there is no day that passes that I don’t make good sales. I have been here for 16 years, as I told you, so people know me and even call me to have some of the goods delivered to their homes or mechanic workshops. It is a good business, but it is one that one needs fair knowledge to be able to handle effectively. Where were you when the fire happened? I was in my house, handling some chores and preparing for church service. It happened on a Sunday around 6am, and it is one thing that still amazes me till date. The people who sell at that market are predominantly Igbo. The Igbo are mostly known for their Catholic faith, so most of them were either in church or preparing to go when it happened. Someone called me to rush down to my shop, saying there was a fire outbreak.  I didn’t know how to react or what to do? “Fire from where? How?” I asked. I checked my phone and there had been over 15 missed calls from other unknown mobile numbers. That was when it dawned on me that I might have a major case of emergency at hand. I started calling the numbers back and all I heard was “Fire! Fire!” By the time I got to my shop, it was too late. My shop was razed beyond recognition. People around had helped to take out a few things. When I got there, I also joined them. But I lost a whole lot of my goods. Have you made an estimate of how much you lost? I just stocked my shop a few days before the fire. I was still taking stock when the unfortunate incident happened. From my calculation, I lost more than N5m to that inferno. Were you told what caused the fire? I cannot explain how the market caught fire and burnt to a devastating level like that, I cannot tell. But I believe that, perhaps, that fire was put out by someone because the timing and the way it burnt was suspicious. Why do you say so? It started burning from the back and then burnt the top floor of the two-storey building. What kind of fire burns like that? It is still a suspicion, but I am thankful to God that no lives were lost. All we lost were goods, properties, not our hope. How was the fire put out? Operatives of the fire service really did their best to put out the fire. They did a good job, I must say, though they came late. The fire started at about 6am; they came around a few minutes to 9am. But, as they arrived, they put up a good fight with the fire and won. If not, other buildings around wouldn’t have been left out. It would have gutted out the entire section, but we thank God. What did the LASG tell you when they came on Monday? Well, some people came with a Hilux van and said they were from the LASG. I don’t know if they were from Alausa secretariat or Mushin. They gave a few kind words and checked the extent of the damage. They met with the owner of the place and had a meeting with him. I don’t have details of their discussions. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com