Following the arrest and confession of Chidinma Ojukwu for allegedly stabbing Super TV CEO, Usifo Ataga, to death at a service apartment in the Lekki area of Lagos State, the state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, has said that the suspect’s father and one Nkechi Mogbo, have been released on bail. City Round learnt that Chidinma’s father was arrested for hindering her daughter’s arrest at their residence in the Alagomeji area of the state. Until Chindinma’s arrest, Mogbo had been in police custody after investigation showed that she operated the service apartment where the University of Lagos undergraduate allegedly killed Ataga. The suspect, while being paraded at the command headquarters in Ikeja on Thursday, confessed to have committed the crime. Speaking with City Round on Friday, Odumosu said though investigation was ongoing, an order had been given for Mogbo’s release on bail, adding that Chidinma’s father had also been released. He stated that Chidinma’s account of how she perpetrated the crime exonerated her father and Mogbo. Odumosu said, “Chidinma’s statement exonerated her father as she said that he was not aware of the incident. We released him on Thursday. Also, the lady in our custody, one Mrs Nkechi Mogbo, who leased the flat from the property owner and used it for a service apartment, has been released on bail. “After Magbo was arrested, she assisted the police because of the information she gave us. Now that we got the principal suspect, and the fact that the principal suspect confessed that she singularly committed the act, and equally went further to explain that she never met Nkechi Mogbo, but that she only phoned her and that they transacted all the business online, the culpability in the case of murder is still exonerating her. In view of this, I have ordered her release on bail while we continue our investigation. However, if any other thing during the investigation points to her, bail is not the end of the case and we will bring her back.” City Round gathered that Magbo returned to Nigeria after studying abroad. When she returned, she started the business of property letting, among other businesses. When City Round visited Chidinma’s parents’ residence on Friday, her father was nowhere to be found. Efforts to speak with neighbours and residents in the area were also abortive. Meanwhile, it was gathered that authorities of the UNILAG were considering Chidinma’s suspension. A source in the university’s Senate, on Friday, said that the student’s action was contrary to the provisions of the institution’s Students Handbook. A professor at the university, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told City Round that “there is no two ways, she will be suspended.” He added that the suspect would be suspended pending the outcome of the police investigation. A dean in one of the faculties in the university also noted that the student would not be able to escape suspension based on the alleged behaviour. He said, “We don’t just suspend like that. A committee will examine the situation, including the video where she confessed before taking a decision. But I do not think she can escape suspension.’’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com