Telecommunication firm, MTN Nigeria and health fintech company, CarePay Nigeria, have partnered to grow health insurance coverage in Nigeria. CarePay Nigeria’s Executive Chairman, Amaechi Ndili, in a statement on Monday, said the partnership would connect MTNN’s subscribers to CarePay’s digital health care marketplace to improve access to affordable quality health care in Nigeria. “Over the next few weeks, both parties will collaborate with accredited health insurers and health care providers to roll out a digital health care marketplace accessible via the website and mobile application, for distribution and administration of a wide range of retail health schemes encompassing innovative bundled health schemes as well as traditional health insurance plans. “Many Nigerians lack awareness about the benefits and importance of health insurance coverage. The distribution of health insurance products in Nigeria is inefficient and costly. This leads to millions of Nigerians, mostly those within the informal sector, having no health coverage whatsoever, relying mostly on cash payments at the point of care, consequently delaying access to care, or resorting to poor quality substitutes due to lack of resources. Furthermore, millions of Nigerians are pushed into poverty each year due to catastrophic health care expenditure. “We consider this important partnership as fundamental to improving Nigeria’s health indices by improving access to affordable quality health care for all Nigerians. With the convergence of various technologies including mobile telephony, cloud, internet, data and artificial intelligence, it is inevitable that these convergences will work to the benefit of the entire health care ecosystem,” Ndili said. He added that the MTN Nigeria’s telecommunication’s brand and reach as well as CarePay’s proven health care technology would provide the perfect, trust-based platform that allows seamless transactions between patients, health care providers and health insurers. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com