A former National Publicity Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party, Chief Olisa Metuh, has expressed confidence that the party will win the Anambra Governorship election scheduled for November 6. Meteh, spoke during a meeting with the 16 PDP governorship aspirants in Nnewi, on Monday. Speaking to journalists shortly after the meeting, Metuh said, “This is the first time in the history of Anambra that we have this array of talents aspiring to govern Anambra on the platform of the PDP and indeed any party, we are happy with them. “The aspirants have met and deliberated, they have also x-rayed the yearnings of Anambra people and have decided to work towards the victory of the party in the coming election. “We also agreed that whoever emerges as the flag bearer, will be supported by all aspirants to ensure victory for PDP. “Most importantly, we have resolved that aspirants will no longer allow anybody to make undue demands or exploit them in their quest to govern Anambra, in that regard, nobody should spend more than N3,000 and N30, 000 for primary logistics. “When you allow candidates to spend too much money on elections, you are opening the vault of the state for exploitation, this is with the understanding of the party leadership. “We also prayed and agreed that there is no more intra-party bickering, this agreement is binding on the 13 aspirants present and three that sent in their apologies for absence. One of the aspirants, Chief Obiora Okonkwo who also spoke, said, “What happened was important to every aspirant and we are going to enforce it, it also takes care of post primary rancour.” Also, a female aspirant who is the daughter of the late Dr. Alex Ekwueme, Mrs. Chidi Onyemelukwe, described the gathering as “the future of Anambra politics.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com