It is said that inflexibility is attractive in mules but repulsive in human beings. That is the trait Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) is displaying to the outside world in his insistence on making his controversial media aide, Lauretta Onochie, a commissioner in Nigeria’s electoral body known as the Independent National Electoral Commission. He had nominated her in October 2020 to the same job. Since then, that nomination has been generating controversies. As Special Assistant to the President on Social Media, Onochie has displayed the vilest form of communication, spreading rumours and attacking opponents of Buhari in the basest form. Buhari’s silence shows that he loves the dirty job of Onochie. The more she wallows in filth, the more Buhari loves her as an aide. And to reward her further for her loyalty and execution of her duty as an attack dog, Buhari decided to nominate her as an INEC commissioner. Since June 9, 2021 when the Senate referred her to the Senate Committee on INEC for screening, the outrage has returned. What is strange to anybody who is rationale and logical in reasoning is: What is the compelling need for the nomination of Lauretta Onochie as INEC commissioner by Buhari? The answer is nil. Onochie is not known to be an electoral expert that will add special value to the work of INEC, make Nigeria better and boost the image of Buhari as a leader. On the contrary, Onochie has displayed brazen and sickening partisanship and support for Buhari that will make it hard for the public to accept that she can be independent as an electoral officer. No matter how hard she tries to show neutrality and fairness as an electoral umpire, any election conducted with her as an INEC commissioner will be tainted in the eyes of the public. Therefore, even before INEC conducts the next general election in 2023 (two years from now), the election will be seen as unreliable with Onochie as an INEC commissioner. One, therefore, wonders why Buhari is insistent on imposing her on INEC. Onochie campaigned for the election of Buhari between 2014 and 2015 when he was elected President. But her contribution to Buhari’s victory was not earth-shaking. She supported Buhari’s presidency passionately like millions of other people did. She did not raise the money Buhari used to sponsor his campaign. She did not anchor any special unit that was indispensible to Buhari’s electoral victory in 2015. There are hundreds of positions Buhari can offer to his supporters to reward them, given that he has shown that he uses Nigeria’s official positions to reward his loyalists rather than choose people who will add value to the country. He has even confirmed that in some of his statements. Some of these positions are higher in rank and prestige than the office of INEC commissioner. Many of them don’t require any confirmation by the National Assembly. And even if they require confirmation, no serious person will raise any objection if Buhari appoints an Onochie as the head of one agency or the other that is in charge of one aspect of national life or the other. After all, immediately after his victory in 2015, Buhari sacked the heads and boards of most agencies and replaced them with his cronies. The tenures of most of these agencies and boards have expired. Many of them have not been replaced. It is, therefore, surprising that Buhari would want to burden a supposedly unbiased umpire like INEC with the Onochie baggage. But based on his antecedents, Buhari has not acted out of character on this. He has used this nomination of Onochie to reinforce the belief that he is an enemy to himself. Once he takes a position on a person or issue, he sticks to it with the belief that it is a sign of weakness if he shifts his position, even when that position is damaging his presidency. He has done it repeatedly. For example, in June 2018, the West African Examinations Council revealed to the House of Representatives that the certificate Chief Okoi Obono-Obla, former Chairman, Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property, used to gain admission to study law at the University of Jos in 1985 was forged. However, it was only in September 2019, over a year after, that the presidency announced the dissolution of the SPIP and sack of Obono-Obla. Similarly, in 2016, when the presidency sent the name of Mr Ibrahim Magu to the Senate for confirmation as the acting chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, the Department for State Services, which is the intelligence agency of Nigeria, presented a damning report about him. The Senate refused to confirm him. One would have expected Buhari to immediately withdraw the nomination of Magu. No. He stuck to his guns, retained Magu in acting capacity and sent out the narrative: “Corruption is fighting back.” It was used to blackmail the Senate for rejecting Magu. Note that the DSS is an agency of the Federal Government, just like the EFCC. The President appoints the heads of both agencies. Yet, Buhari failed to heed the security report of an agency under his presidency because he wanted Magu as the EFCC chairman by all means. Ironically, in July 2020, Buhari suspended the same Magu as the EFCC acting chairman over allegations of corruption. It was the same case with Mrs Kemi Adeosun, erstwhile minister of finance, who was accused of presenting a forged exemption certificate from the National Youth Service Corps. From the time the news broke on July 11, 2018, Buhari made no official comment and took no action. On September 14 – full two months after – she confirmed that some people procured an NYSC exemption certificate for her years back. She announced her resignation from Buhari’s cabinet. No further action was taken concerning that case of forgery. If Adeosun had not resigned, Buhari could have let her carry on. Similarly, former minister of communications, Alhaji Adebayo Shittu, who admitted that he did not participate in the mandatory one-year National Youth Service Corps was not bothered by whatever anyone said because he knew that his boss, Buhari, was allergic to sacking his loyal aides. On the case of the service chiefs, it was the same story. From 2015 when they came in, there was worsening security. But rather than sack them as the nation clamoured for, he even extended their tenure when they were due for retirement. They continued with him into his second term. It was only in January 2021 that he eventually let them go. What was the need of extending the tenure of security chiefs whose tenure showed a rise in security challenges, leading to countless deaths? The only probable reason was that Buhari would not want to show that the masses dictate what he does. He always wants to show that he is his own man who is not bothered by the “noise” Nigerians make. It was not surprising that some time ago, his media aides released a photograph of him picking his teeth with his legs on a stool, to show that he was unperturbed about the criticism emanating from Nigerians. Ever since then, that picture has been used to taunt him as the Nigerian Nero that frolics while Nigeria burns. As President, Buhari has displayed a strange type of leadership style. It is a type of leadership that is hard to describe. As human beings whose initial aim is self-preservation, Buhari has presented Nigerians with an unusual kind of leadership which seems to enjoy self-immolation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com