Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has lamented that farmers in the state are now afraid to go to their farms due to insecurity but assured that his government will ensure providing security to lives and property in the state. Fayemi said this on Friday at a stakeholders’ meeting in Ado Ekiti, the state capital, to proffer solutions to insecurity in the state and by extension the country. The meeting was convened by the Ekiti Council of Elders and tagged, ‘Statewide Conference on Securing Ekiti State.’ Those at the meeting included former governors Segun Oni and Abiodun Aluko; traditional rulers led by the Chairman, Ekiti State Council of Traditional Rulers, Oba Adebanji Alabi; the Catholic Bishop of Ekiti Diocese, Most Rev Felix Ajakaye; traders; artisans; and the various security agencies and groups. Fayemi, who was represented by his deputy, Chief Bisi Egbeyemi, lamented the manner in which insecurity and dealt with farmers. “I want to commend our elders for this event and I must say that we must unite to secure the state. We get reports every day that our people are afraid to go to their farms, but I can assure you that this administration is working with our security agencies for peace to reign in the state,” the governor said. The Ekiti Council of Elders’ President, Prof Joseph Oluwasanmi, also lamented the numerous security breaches across the state and the attendant loss of lives, maiming, kidnappings, economic loss, destruction of livestock and farmlands. He said the conference was to proffer solutions to ensure the safety of lives and property. He said, “We are appalled by the impudence accompanying the criminal acts of illegal intruders. Our people do not expect to be disdainfully treated by those who enjoy their hospitality and we repudiate the impunity of unprovoked aggression. “Why are all the genuine efforts of our governors in the South-West being hampered by the agents of the Federal Government? Up till now, the Amotekun outfit has not been allowed to carry arms in spite of the glaring security breaches.” Catholic bishop Ajakaye canvassed that concerted efforts be deployed by stakeholders in securing the state, saying, “We should not be held hostage in our own land.” Ajakaye said security agencies were overwhelmed, hence the need for collaboration to be able to guarantee safety, calling on the people to support the Amotekun Corps and other security outfits in providing timely and accurate information on strange and suspicious movements in their domain. The traditional council chairman and Alawe of Ilawe-Ekiti, Oba Alabi, who lauded the elders for the conference, said monarchs had gone traditional in addressing the issue of insecurity in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com