The beauty about the sickle cell community is as an advocate, I meet many wonderful people doing what they can to alleviate or engage in talks on living with sickle cell.  The decision to have a bone marrow transplant is not an easy one.  This is an account of what Agnes and her family went through.  Thank you to both Agnes N and Natalie K from Australian Sickle Cell Advocacy for this piece. You have a suitable donor, should you get a bone marrow transplant? There is no right or wrong answer, even though this is an extremely challenging question whether you are a person who is old enough to understand the concept or a parent grappling with the possibility of a cure for your beloved child. Being a mum to a child diagnosed with sickle cell anaemia at 14 months old in Australia, our world turned upside down overnight. I had no idea what sickle cell disease was all about. I didn’t even know how to spell it when I searched on Google. I was from a corporate world and our family rarely got sick. We never got sick to be admitted in hospital and here we were, being faced with a condition that would affect our daughter potentially for the rest of her life. It was a scary moment. From the onset, her disease progression was severe due to late diagnosis. Like many children born from different parts of the world without sickle cell newborn screening programme, our daughter presented at the emergency hospital department three times before she was finally diagnosed at 14 months old. As such, she endured a lot of complications that affected her treatment plan. The sickle cell community waited for over 80 years, after it was discovered in an American laboratory to have a treatment for sickle cell. This was hydroxyurea, it is considered a wonder drug and it is always the first option for many people living with sickle cell disease. This was also the go to when the doctors finally realised my daughter had sickle cell disease after being turned away from hospital on three occasions. The initial hospital stay of up to seven weeks was a crucial period to ensure she stayed alive. She had a nasty acute chest syndrome that made her lung collapse. The doctors did all they could, their first instinct was to hydrate her. However, this made her have fluid overload, we saw how swelled up she was.  Myself and the rest of the family were just watching, hoping for the best, unsure how we could help our little girl. Then the doctors realised she had fluid overload, so they started getting rid of the fluids by giving her diuretics (medications to remove excess fluids). This worked and three days after our daughter was admitted she was able to wake up and eat something. What followed after was a whirlwind experience; many hospital stays, learning how to give our daughter up to eight medications during the worst period after discharge. This became the norm; this was our new life. From a young age we realised that hydroxyurea stopped responding, there were side effects like neutropenia. It was decided that we stop this treatment as it was doing more harm than good. The next option was a needed blood transfusion. The option required hospital stays being treated with a lot of bouts of pneumonia, colds and flu. This treatment was later changed to blood transfusions every three to four weeks. However, this treatment plan too was not perfect. Our daughter endured side effects of blood transfusions. She developed antibodies and had iron overload. This became a dilemma; we did not know what to do next. The only other option was a bone marrow transplant to try to cure sickle cell disease. But the tricky part about all this was that this treatment had never been tried before in Australia to cure sickle cell disease homozygous SS. We started the discussions when she was around eight years, but soon enough we realised that her complications from the acute chest syndrome were too much for her to bear the chemotherapy required in the bone marrow transplant treatment. We were told to wait for a clinical trial at the time doctors were trying to use reduced conditioning chemotherapy to expend in sickle cell disease immune suppression. It took two years for us to get that good news that our daughter had a full 100 per cent chance of getting the cure, since our other daughter was a full match for bone marrow donation. What followed was a sense of mixed feelings, we had second thoughts. With a lot of what if questions? What if the treatment does not work, treatment makes her condition worse or she does not survive the treatment? The days leading to making that decision involved us reading, watching a lot of YouTube videos, asking doctors lots of questions and seeking prayers from our friends and church community. We asked God several questions. We waited for a sign for us to finally make the decision. The moment the treating oncologist told us that we were going to be her last patients and that she was leaving Australia was the sign. Her decision to leave Australia four months after our treatment was a sign we needed. This treating oncologist was experienced. After a few months of therapy as a family, we finally agreed that our little girl should undergo this risky invasive treatment. It felt right, God was in control. Our girl had the treatment with much ease such that we asked ourselves what we had feared. We stayed in hospital for 40 days, with each day passing patiently waiting for her cells to grow. For me as a parent, it was one of the scariest periods of my life. In as much as I prayed, I found moments where I was so sacred such that I cried for no reason. Today our daughter is well, her bone marrow is corrected, and she produces corrected red blood cells. We look back at the 10 plus years and what we had to endure. We are thankful that God is always with us. One thing that we must be mindful of is that even though her bone marrow is corrected, her genes are not. In terms of science, her genotype does not change. She is still SS, and we will have to educate her that in future when she decides to marry, she will have to take this into consideration. If you would like to get in touch with me about this article or about sickle cell, please do so: t.dehinde@yahoo.com and do visit my blog: www.howtolivewithsicklecell.co.uk. My book: How to live with sickle cell is available for purchase on OkadaBooks and Amazon. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com