A former Commissioner for Information in Anambra State and the first female professor of Mass Communication in Nigeria, Chinyere Okunna, talks to TOFARATI IGE and JANET OGUNDEPO about the proposed amendment of the Nigerian Press Council Act, among other issues There are growing concerns over a move by the National Assembly to amend the Nigeria Press Council Act and the National Broadcasting Commission Act. What does this say about the right to press freedom and the freedom of speech, as guaranteed in the Nigerian constitution? I will say things are getting worse. Sometimes, I wonder what is going on because the Freedom of Information Act was a landmark victory for the press. Before then, there was the Official Secrets Act that limited access (to certain information) – one could not speak to a government official. If one asked them anything, they were not allowed to speak to the press. So, when the FOI Act came, it was a victory for everybody because it guaranteed access to government-held information. Amending anything that denies journalists and even ordinary Nigerians access to information held by the government working on their behalf is condemnable. Some of the provisions of the proposed media laws are to regulate the media, its practitioners, and even close down media houses considered to be critical of the government. Will this not return the country to the dark days of the military? I agree completely. Decree 4 (passed during the military regime of Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd) in 1984) was a military contraption and we remember how everyone suffered under that decree, such that when it was lifted, there was jubilation everywhere. For them to try to bring it back through these proposed media laws, it feels like a resurrection of either the entire Decree 4 or part of it. I think part of the Nigerian Press Council Bill will limit the press drastically. For me, anything that curtails the freedom of the press in a democracy should not be allowed to happen. It is popularly said that the press is the oxygen of democracy and like oxygen, if you stifle the press and curtail press freedom, democracy can never thrive. Do you suspect the Federal Government has an agenda here? My fear is that Nigeria is not doing as well as it has the potential to do and as long as the country is not healthy enough, the government in charge of this bad health of the country will try not to let the world know what is going wrong. Insecurity is at its highest and education is collapsing. We have the largest number of out-of-school children in the world. We are now called the poverty capital of the world— so many poor people live here, even more than in India. So, when things are not going well, with uprisings everywhere, the government will not want this to get out. Unless things improve drastically, the press will never be allowed to say what they see and that is unfortunate. The House Committee on Information, National Orientation, Ethics and Values had insisted on going ahead with the bill despite calls by media stakeholders for its stoppage? What do you make of that? In a democracy, it is about the people. Because we all cannot govern, we elected some people to govern on our behalf. Anybody in government is governing on behalf of the people. That means they should listen to those they govern. If Nigerians are crying over a policy, no matter how well the government puts that policy, the government should have the responsibility to look at it again, review it or cancel it completely because it is not going down well with those it is governing. The outcry has been long and loud, not only from the press, but from ordinary Nigerians as well. The government should look at why the people are crying out and find ways to make amends. Do you think the proposed amendment has anything to do with the 2023 general elections? What they are doing now could be geared towards elections in 2023. But that is only a guess; we don’t know. We don’t have the facts. We are not in Buhari’s head to know what is fuelling the activities. One cannot tell why Lai Muhammed is doing what he is doing and saying the things he is saying. These are conjectures and we may never have the facts to verify and support these conjectures. What’s your assessment of the press, especially in terms of reporting events in the country? The Nigerian media is going quite well. But, the media will only do as well as the freedom in the environment allows them to do. There is a limit to what a journalist can do. There is fear and repression among media practitioners. It takes courage to practise in a restrictive environment. I would use Anambra State as an example. In the past, there was so much fear. There were things one could not do and places one could not go to, just to stay alive. If the media is given the freedom to practise, we would have one of the most outstanding media systems in the world. But the danger now is that freedom is somehow being curtailed. Look at the ban on Twitter. Is the Freedom of Information act working? Can you go into a government office and ask for information on things the government doesn’t want you to see, and they would give it to you freely? Record keeping in Nigeria is very poor in many areas. So, there are restrictions and they say a wise man lives to fight again. Journalism all over the world is a very dangerous profession. In Nigeria, it is becoming more dangerous. There is danger everywhere and it takes courage to thrive. But, so many journalists cannot find the courage. Does the National Broadcasting Commission have the constitutional backing to regulate Twitter and other social media applications? The regulation of social media is a difficult thing. Even in the advanced world, with all their technology, have they been able to do it? It is not easy trying to do that. Banning social media is not the answer. Maybe as we evolve, a time would come when new technologies and ideas would spring up to enable the government regulate social media. But for now, I think it is impossible. Rather, we should have multiple sources of information, so that one can verify. One reason social media is difficult to regulate is that many of them (social media news platforms) are managed by quacks— people who are not trained as journalists. Many of them are destroying the profession. What we should do as true and ethical journalists is to keep seeking and providing the right information, packaging it professionally, and disseminating it effectively. Social media has democratised the flow of information but it has also been used to spread hate and fake news. What do you think can be done to reduce the spread of false information while still promoting freedom of speech? In all honesty, I don’t know. I keep saying we don’t have the technology (to do that) yet. Fake news is sometimes put out with a motive. Also, a government that is hiding something would claim that everything said about the government is fake news. Sometimes, the term ‘fake news’ is abused. Much of what they term fake news might not be fake at all, particularly when they are anti-government information. For now, most of the fake news comes from social media. I don’t think an established newspaper or a broadcast house with an address would deliberately indulge in fake news. It is social media and I reiterate that for now, we don’t have the technology and the idea of how to regulate social media effectively. And, banning them completely is an infringement on access to information. The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) shortly after assuming office, claimed to be a born-again democrat. With some of the actions of his regime bordering on restricting freedom of expression, do you think he is walking that talk? No, I don’t think so. That’s my personal opinion. A democrat is elected by the people, governing on their behalf, protecting them, and working for their self-preservation and well-being. What the Federal Government is doing does not meet those criteria – the welfare of the people, freedom of the people, love for the people, and doing what is fair to the governed. There is no fairness in what the government is doing. There are areas in the country that are marginalised and they are crying out. There is insecurity and poverty. A democrat is somebody who takes care of the people. When things are not going on well and people criticise you, as a democrat, you don’t rise up in anger. Rather, you listen to them and find out how to make things better for them. You don’t clamp down on people who are protesting. Maybe he is doing some things better than when he was a military ruler, but there is a lot of space for improvement. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com