Following fears of a possible third wave of COVID-19, experts have suggested that Nigeria does not need to vaccinate its entire population to avoid another outbreak. Renowned virologist and former Vice-Chancellor of Redeemers’ University, Professor Oyewale Tomori, in a chat with our correspondent, stated that it would be unnecessary for the country to carry out vaccination on such scale. He said, “Nigeria does not need to vaccinate the entire population before the epidemic is curbed. It is not only unnecessary or undesirable but also not possible to vaccinate the entire population.” Agreeing with Tomori’s position Dr Oladipo Kolawole, a medical virologist at Adeleke University, Ede, Osun State, said only a percentage of the population needs to be vaccinated to avoid a third wave of the pandemic in the country. Recall that the United States had this month promised to donate 500m doses of the Pfizer vaccines to no fewer than 100 countries, including Nigeria, in the next two years. Speaking of the effect the US vaccine donation will have on Nigeria, Kolawole said, “If we can vaccinate 70-80 per cent of the population on time, this will help in a great way. “Nigeria will benefit significantly from the vaccines. This will allow us to prevent future waves of COVID-19. Also, the other groups of the population yet to be vaccinated will now be able to get their vaccines.” He added, “The promised donation of vaccines from the US will only be of benefit if vaccination covers a substantial proportion of the population before the expected onset of the third wave. If there is a delay in the delivery and use of the vaccine before the third wave comes, it will be like police arriving after the robbery is done.” However, both experts also reiterated the need for the government not to be lax about measures put in place for the citizens to adhere in order to contain the spread of the virus. Tomori said, “We are no longer adhering to the basic preventive and no pharmaceutical interventions; wearing masks, keeping a safe distance, avoiding large gatherings and appropriate hygienic standards.” Kolawole further stressed that the government needs to conduct more testing for symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. He said, “Currently, the ratio of the population tested is low compared to our total population, though the government is trying, more efforts are needed from the three tiers of government. “Then enforcement of the Non-Pharmaceutical Interventions, NPI, has played a critical role in reducing transmission rates and the impact of COVID-19. The appropriate authorities should ensure that personal NPI are understood and correctly applied by the population.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com