THE All Progressives Congress has dismissed concerns raised by Peoples Democratic Party Governors as well as economic experts over Nigeria’s rising debt profile. PDP Governors had in a communique issued after their meeting in Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State capital, on Monday, raised the alarm over Nigeria’s debt profile. A communique issued by the governors after the meeting read in part, “The PDP Governors frowned at the rising debt profile of Nigeria with over 80 per cent of normal appropriation spent on debt servicing. “All the gains of the PDP government under Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, where Nigeria exited its foreign debt obligations, have been destroyed.” In response, the APC in a statement titled, ‘PDP Panicked By APC’s 40 Million Membership, Support Base… Loans Invested in Critical Infrastructure, not Private Pockets’ signed by the Acting National Secretary, Senator John Akpanudoedehe, in Abuja, on Tuesday, said the PDP was in panic mode because of its dwindling resources. He said, “The sinking PDP is panicking due to its dwindling fortunes as the APC registered members hit over 40 million, with PDP members, including governors leaving the party in droves and joining the APC. “While the PDP continues to clutch on straws as it sinks into political oblivion, the APC-led federal government and states governed by the APC are busy providing critical infrastructure, expanding access to education, providing health facilities and economically empowering citizens. “On their parts, PDP governors have prioritised their frequent weekend jamborees, the recent held in Akwa Ibom state where they waste scarce state resources. Some of these PDP governors are owing workers’ salaries and have refused to pay pensioners. The case of Benue and Taraba states stands out. “A communique by the PDP governors queried loans procured by the President Muhammadu Buhari administration. “If the APC government has taken loans, it has been invested in visible infrastructure projects across the country as opposed to past PDP administrations where loans were diverted to private pockets.” “Again, the PDP alleges that the APC administration is claiming projects executed by them, but without naming any of such projects to support their bogus allegations. “Perhaps, the PDP is referring to the litany of abandoned projects it left behind all over the country despite spending 16 years in power and receiving unprecedented earnings when crude oil sold for as high as $150 per barrel.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com