Players of Heartland FC have threatened to boycott their next Nigerian Professional Football League game against FC IfeanyiUbah in Nnewi on Sunday over unpaid salaries, The PUNCH reports. The Naze Millionaires owe their players nine months salary — five months from last season and four this term. The players had planned a protest to the office of the Imo State Governor Hope Uzodinma on Tuesday, but our correspondent learnt that they shelved their initial plan and agreed to shun the tie against IfeanyiUbah instead. Despite the financial crisis rocking the team, Heartland are currently 10th in the NPFL with 38 points from 27 games. Speaking with The PUNCH on the issue, captain of the team, Ikechukwu Ezenwa, said it was frustrating playing without salaries in the last nine months. He also queried how the management funded the team for games and pay bonuses, but owe salaries. “It’s not been easy playing without being paid for nine months, but we have been coping because we have a coach who has helped us manage this situation. The management has not deemed it fit to inform tell us why they have not paid us and when they will pay, which is very unfortunate. “As the captain of the team, I have tried my best to encourage the team, but it has reached a level that it is no longer working again. “We have endured enough and we are tired of this unfair treatment from the management. We can’t bear it anymore. One of my teammates’ daughter celebrated her birthday and he couldn’t afford a cake of N5000, this is shameful. “That is why we have agreed to boycott the next game against FC IfeanyiUbah than protest at the State House on Tuesday (today). We are shelving it because of the unrest in this part of the country.” Heartland coach Fidelis Ilechukwu urged Governor Uzodinma to clear the salary arrears of the entire team. “The Governor should look into this team. We have a lot of challenges, which we won’t want to talk about. I know that if our Governor knows what we are going through he will come to our aid. “I have been persuading the players not to protest or boycott any game and just try and end the season the best way they can. I’m tired of talking about this because nothing seems to be happening,” Ilechukwu said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com