The Joint Action Committee of the Akwa Ibom State University comprising the Academic Staff Union of the University, Non-academic Staff Union of Educational and Associated institutions and National Association of Academic Technologists on Monday defied the threat of no-work no-pay issued by the institution management to all striking staffs of the University to remained at home. The Vice  Chancellor of the institution, Prof. Nse Essien had, in a release by the Registrar Mr John Udo, mandated all the striking workers to return to their duty posts on Monday, June 7, 2021, threatening that salaries would not be paid on no work, no pay basis. The Governor of the state, Udom Emmanuel, had in a media briefing ordered the reopening of the institution, saying he had released a monthly subvention of N327m to the institution. But speaking with newsmen in Uyo, the ASUU chairman, Dr Ime Okop, said members would remain on strike as long as they did not receive payment alerts of their salaries and other entitlements, adding that the lecturers were not prepared to shift grounds on the matter. Okop frowned at the situation where both the state government and the management of the university were playing pranks with the issue of education. “What the governor went on air to say is not what we will contest, it is left for the management to explain. What we know is that the university has been receiving the sum of N250 million as monthly subvention as at 2019. “So, if the state government has increased it to N329 million, it is left for the management to explain, and let us know when the amount was increased. “We are asking for our salaries to be paid in full and other allowances. We have been receiving haIf salaries, percentage salaries, and you cannot tell which month you were paid or not,” he said. The Academic Staff Union of Universities chapter of the institution had embarked on strike towards the end of April to protest the payment of 75 percent of their salaries for 10 months. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com