I was moved to my bones by a story a friend told me about a rich Caucasian American man who recently died. The rich man was down with an undisclosed illness for a while and had nurses taking care of him at home. When he was certain that the sickness was unto death, he wrote down some instructions as to how his possessions would be distributed among his loved ones. He thought about how hard he had worked to amass his wealth. He thought about good times, his many travels around the world, his good judgments on some issues, and errors he made that he wished could have been avoided. In his last few days, he repeatedly told his young nurses and other members of the medical team: “This is how it will all end for everybody”. It was very emotional for him. Then, he gave up the ghost. His family members were invited to the house and instructed to go home with properties as listed on the Will. And one by one, each family member picked things that were allotted to them. These were his cherished possessions when he was alive. These were all that the man worked for all his years. Now, they are given out as freebies to people. Cars were driven off the garage. Plasma TVs, expensive garments, Rolex watches, and gold of great value, and trinkets were shared by people who did not help him work the work he worked. His bank accounts seconded to somebody else’s account. They now belong to somebody else. At this point, he had no control over a thing. That is usually what happens when we are done with our assignments here. That is how it ends for all. Should you then not wonder why the greedy remains greedy? What then is the essence of greed and gluttony? Call it what you want.  Avarice. Avidity, Rapacity. Covetousness. They all descend from the same genre: Greed. The demonic desire to dig in for more; and the zest to salivate for what you have no need for even when you have enough. Among men with power, greed is the crowned king. In many palaces, greed is the scepter. For those who drool and slobber after power, greed is the desired dopamine. For those who think they can live forever, greed is their tranquiliser. Greed is a geek among men of influence. And with men of affluence; it is an intoxicant. Those who have more want more. Those who have insufficiency give no hoot about those in lack. Their preoccupation is to occupy slots of power and then drain more from those who are dying from not-enough and dearth that many times lead to death. For greed freaks, enough is never enough. They are addicted to the vice. They derive surreal gratification as they constantly seek more and more of greed. “More” is the keyword of their addiction to more by all means necessary. The “ante” for getting enough of their craving must continually be raised. The drive for more is on the pulpit in the courts of pastors and Bishops of bling. It is in the pew with selected ogrish few. Of course, you find it too in the purlieu of political authority and veranda of decrees. Audacious greed-laden pursuit of wealth in its audacity, manipulativeness and gross insensitivity to the needs and feelings of others are the ingredients of greed.  How much money is really enough? One million dollars? One billion dollars?  Out of thousand hectares of good farmland, men can consume only three quarts of rice daily. Out of a thousand mansions, men only need eight square metres of space to rest at night. So, as long as you have enough food and enough money to spend, that should be good enough, right? For the greedy, wrong! And he forgets that God still rules in the affairs of men. A ton of greed does not add one second to a man’s life.  If you agree with me as you read this, it means that no one has the power to determine the day the curtain of life is drawn announcing our last earthly appearance. Only a fool will think he or she will live forever. Man must not quickly forget that whatever has a beginning must have an end. God began man, and only He can end the journey when the time is up. Very many rich fools among us believe this not. With impunity, they reign terror on the poor and trample on the needy. In their foolishness, they say indirectly: “Where is that God who can challenge what I do?” They have forgotten that it is God who rules in the affairs of men. There are three pages of this transient life we all live. The first page is when we make our first appearance in birth. The last page is when we make our final appearance in death. And the centre page is the essence of the first; and precedence to the last. They are pages all of God’s created beings including the oppressing rich fool and the oppressed hapless poor must read from. Longevity is great. Long life is precious. But it is not the days in our life that really matter, but the life in our days. And our days can only be full of life if they are spent giving quality life to others and spending our time with the Giver of Life who is God. My drift in this treatise is not about when the music of life stops playing. It is about what we do while danceable jingles from the gramophone of life are still shooting out their mellifluous melody. If you are a star today, brighten the corner where you are. If you are affluent, remember the hungry in your vicinage. Whether you are president, pastor, bishop, Imam, or Pope, the world will not remember your title; they will remember the value you added to the world. The worth of a man is not in his title; it is in the value he adds. Follow me @folaOjotweet Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com