Men of the Lagos State Police Command have arrested two persons, Tunji Lawal and lkechukwu Oguawai, for allegedly leading an attack on the Amuwo Odofin Senior Grammar School in the Agboju area of the state. PUNCH Metro gathered that some students were sitting their common entrance examination in the school on Saturday when members of the gang scaled the fence and launched an attack on the parents and guardians, who were waiting for their children and wards. It was learnt that the suspects were armed with weapons with which they attacked the parents, guardians and other yet-to-be-identified persons on the premises of the school. During the attack, it was learnt that a distress call was made to the Satellite Police Division and policemen were mobilised to the scene of the incident. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi, said in a statement on Sunday that the men, who were mobilised to the scene of the attack, prevented the hoodlums from disrupting the examination and arrested two of the suspects, adding that efforts were on to arrest other fleeing members of the gang. He said, “Operatives attached to the Satellite Division of the Lagos State Police Command, on Saturday, June 5, 2021, around 2.15pm, arrested two suspected armed robbers after receiving information that some armed men scaled the fence of the Amuwo Odofin Senior Grammar School, Old Ojo Road, Agboju bus stop, Lagos, where pupils were taking the common entrance examination into Federal Government Colleges in Nigeria. “The armed men had attacked with weapons some of the parents and guardians, who accompanied their children and wards to the venue of the examination, but the anti-crime patrol team stationed at the examination venue responded swiftly and arrested two of the suspected robbers, while the others took to their heels. “The suspects are Tunji Lawal, 22, and lkechukwu Oguawai, 22, both of no fixed address. The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, Hakeem Odumosu, has directed that the suspects be transferred to the command’s Special Squad, Ikeja, for proper investigation and possible prosecution, while the fleeing members of the robbery gang should be apprehended. “The police boss reassured members of the general public of adequate security of lives and property and public safety in Lagos State as he pledged constant security at all schools and colleges in the state.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com