Chidiebube Okeoma, Owerri THE Imo state Chapter of the People Democratic Party, on Thursday, demanded the resignation of the state Governor, Hope Uzodinma, over the rising insecurity in the state. State Chairman of the PDP, Charles Ugwu, made the demand at a press conference in Owerri on Thursday. The party also demanded an investigation into the killing of a former presidential aide, Ahmed Gulak. Ugwu said, “Governor Hope Uzodimma, in his capacity and responsibility as the chief security officer of the state, has failed to protect the lives and property of residents of Imo State.” He noted that the situation in the state had exposed the administration as lacking capacity to govern. The PDP chairman also decried the militarization of the state as well as the alleged indiscriminate arrest and killing of the youths in the state. Ugwu equally condemned the burning down of police stations and offices belonging to the Independent National Electoral Commission by hoodlums. He further said, “Our party finds it too worrisome that daily, innocent civilians are mowed down, security personnel are wantonly killed, arson, murder, and carnage, have become the lot of the hitherto most peaceful state in Nigeria. The climax is the gruesome murder of Hon. Ahmed Gulak, the former aide to the then president, Dr Goodluck Jonathan, and a former member of the PDP.” In response, the Senior Special Assistant to the governor on Print Media, Modestus Nwamkpa, accused the PDP of trying to score cheap political points with a serious security issue. He described those left within the PDP ranks in the state as “Politically displaced Politicians” whom he claimed were seeking attention. Nwampa, however, noted that the Uzodimma administration was working with security agencies to deal with the insecurity in the state.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com