The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Sterling Bank, Abubakar Suleiman, tells MOBOLA SADIQ about his life as a banker, his passion for poetry and other issues Were you born with a silver spoon in your mouth? My father was a fairly successful person but I do not think I grew up with a silver spoon in my mouth. My dad passed on when I was 10 years old and I had not even started secondary school. From the moment he died, I did not live like a child with a silver spoon. I actually experienced life as an average child who had to face the difficulties that came with living in a country like ours. I attended government schools and I also went to a public university. What are some of your fondest childhood memories? When it comes to childhood, what comes to mind are the sports that we played when we hung out with other kids. I used to be an avid football player. At some point, I was so passionate about the sport that I would come back from school and instead of taking my lunch, I would head for the football pitch. At a point, my mother asked me to stop playing football. I still cannot explain what happened but the day we had that conversation was the last time I played football as a teenager. Another memory was my childhood in a rural area in Nigeria. I lived with my grandparents. I remember going to the forest and stream. Those are the memories that stay with one, especially when one (later) finds oneself living in the city. I like for looking for places that are green and natural. Why did you opt for a career in financial services? There were two things I was passionate about in secondary school. The first was architecture. I had an interest in building and other things related to it. I was also very interested in literature, particularly poetry. I was even more passionate about poetry. When it was time to go to the university, I had some discussions with my family members about my career choice. The idea of becoming a poet was not appealing to them. They made it clear to me that I would struggle to earn a decent living (if I was a poet). I then opted to study Economics at the University of Abuja. I also bagged a Master’s degree in Major Programmes Management from the Said Business School of the University of Oxford. After university, I worked for a consulting firm called Arthur Andersen. My exposure there led me to the bank. You assumed office as MD/CEO of Sterling Bank in 2018. How did your promotion come about? I did not know that I would be appointed as the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Sterling Bank. However, from the moment one is appointed to the board of the bank as an Executive Director, one should be preparing oneself for whatever responsibilities that might come one’s way. The preparation would come from knowing that any member of the board could be asked to deputise in the absence of the CEO. But, if I’m to speak generally, preparation for leadership is a lifelong journey. One should not just prepare for a particular leadership (role), one should prepare to lead people if the opportunity ever arises. I was lucky to have had such an opportunity much earlier when I was seconded to be the interim CEO of Equatorial Trust Bank, which we acquired in 2011. So, I had the opportunity to have overseen a bank. How would you describe your experience at the helm of affairs, since 2018 coupled with the COVID-19 pandemic, since they say ‘uneasy lies the head that wears the crown’? The buck indeed stops at my desk but I have never had to wear the ‘crown’ alone. Not only do I have an incredibly supportive cast at the executive level, I have a lot of people who continue to mentor and support me. Some were previously my supervisors and others are people who appreciate what we are trying to do and therefore, throw their weight behind us. The ‘crown’ itself is really not a problem. We take responsibilities for whatever comes with but we have a lot of support, so it has not been difficult. Do you consider this position to be the zenith of your career? I think as far as banking is concerned, I do not imagine that I would be interested in another banking role. But, I have always assumed that my sojourn into banking was really to equip me with experience and relationships that I can take somewhere else. Other sectors in Nigeria could benefit from the kind of exposures that banking offers. In the same way that I brought my consulting experience to the banking sector, I also believe that I would bring the experience from banking and take it somewhere else where my skills are equally suited. Some people are not happy that the Central Bank of Nigeria prohibited financial institutions from trading in cryptocurrency. Considering that it was a means of employment for some people amidst the high unemployment rate in the country, what do you think about that decision? Let’s be clear, (trading in) cryptocurrency is not a solution to unemployment in the country. I think that is a misconception. It may offer a few people opportunities to take a bet and make some money and in the same way, others would also lose money. Anyone who is looking to provide employment for 30 million people would not be looking towards cryptocurrency (trading) for that. What we have now are cryptocurrencies that have been issued externally, and one can trade with them across the border. The challenge is that the regulators (globally) have yet to establish how cryptocurrency will function in their various countries. In the absence of this, it is only normal that the CBN would insist that people wait until the regulations are in place. I believe that both the Securities and Exchange Commission and the CBN are comparing notes to ensure that we have a seamless intra-regulatory understanding of this asset class. To be clear, there are two augments that are made for cryptocurrency. The first one is that it is an opportunity for people to get rich, but unfortunately, like every other asset class where people can get rich quickly without creating anything of value, or producing anything, be it in terms of goods and services, there is also a similar risk that people would get poor very quick when the asset loses value. It is like gambling when one either makes or loses money. There is a reason regulators should pay attention to crypto because it is not an asset class that goes in one direction. When it goes bad and people lose money, it matters. What should be the way forward? I think a collaboration that is now ongoing between those who are stakeholders in the digital currency space and us, the regulators, is what should have happened in the first place. Be it as it may, it is not too late to have that conversation and to put in place regulations that protect the national interest while allowing people the freedom to express themselves. Nigerians are groaning about the exchange rate. In layman’s terms, what can be done to increase the value of the naira? As an economist, I like to think about things. If the price of a particular good is rising, there is a very strong motivation for one to produce that good. Recently, I read where someone lamented about the increase in the price of garri (granulated cassava.) I asked myself what this is communicating. It means when the price of a particular good that one is capable of producing is going up, it is telling entrepreneurs that they should be producing more goods. If the price of second-hand goods imported into the country is increasing, it is an opportunity for those producing similar goods locally to increase their production. Nobody wants to see inflation go up but when prices go up, it provides the impetus for producers to put more efforts. I also think that it is unfortunate that our national life is now expressed almost entirely in the context of the currency of another country. One would almost wonder if Nigeria has an economy of its own. At the end of the day, people do not realise that more than 80 per cent of Nigeria’s economy is local, not imported. The import component of our GDP is about 20 per cent or less. So when we focus our attention on 20 per cent, forgetting there’s an 80 per cent of our economy that we can grow, we lose out. Sterling bank seems quite interested in the arts. Why is that so? The primary reason we decided to focus on the arts sector was that we looked at the size of the banking asset relative to the GDP and we realised that it was very small. There was something wrong because the financial asset was not growing fast enough. We tried to figure out what to do and we discovered that some sectors had the highest potential to drive inclusive growth and therefore if a bank were to focus on it, we can then participate in what are not only economically viable sectors but also sectors that have the capacity to drive national inclusion. Your bank also gives out books as gifts. What informed this? We tend to inherit things and never question them. When we came on board, people were usually given hampers which contained many sweet things. But on a second thought, we asked if those things were worthy gifts for someone who one deeply cares about? Or, is there a more meaningful and long-lasting way to express gratitude? Because we have already committed to supporting education, reading became the obvious choice and therefore we now support festivals that are built around reading. We also support Nigerian and African authors by distributing books they have published. What are you passionate about aside from banking? My greatest passion is for my country but I also extend that passion to the continent, especially the black race. Therefore, if you ask me what I often think about when I am not at work, it is about how Nigeria can take its rightful place in the world. If Nigeria does not become a country to reckon with, black people all over the world will continue to be looked down upon. I think it is a battle worth fighting. I am incredibly passionate about this course. Since you liked poetry, who is your favourite author? I do have a favourite book. People that are close to me know that I cannot go a day without talking about Kahlil Gibran (Lebanese-American poet and writer). Especially, his book titled, ‘The Prophet.’ I feel very strongly that this book is one of the greatest books for anyone who is trying to live what I would call a meaningful life. After retirement as the MD/CEO of Sterling, what other career plans do you have? I have always wanted to support young people who are trying to build businesses. And in this position, I have been able to support some of them. But, if I had more time to spare, it would form a significant part of what I do. I have also always wanted to write and teach. This is because if one has had the benefit of all of the experience that I have had, then it makes sense to share some of these experiences with other people who are coming behind me. Do you have any interest in politics? I have an interest in nation-building and I like to differentiate between politics and nation-building. Right now, I do not have any direct interest in politics. I don’t think that I have acquired the skills or built the network for it. However, there are many skills that I have that I intend to make available for nation-building. These areas are my primary areas such as finance, innovation and innovative ways to rebuild Nigeria.  After my job in Sterling, I intend to dedicate my time to nation-building in any way that I can while not completely ruling out working for the government or being in politics. However, it is not my primary intent at this point. What was the most mischievous thing you did as a youth? I was a complete gentleman as a youth. I was not particularly studious but I was always private. I enjoyed reading books but I was not the disciplined type of student that a lot of professors would have liked very much. I was also never been the partying type either, so I have very limited experience of the ‘mischief’ you’re referring to. As a youth, how many adventurous trips did you go on? Interestingly, I have also gone on adventurous trips as a senior employee in the bank. I took a trip around the South-West which covered Ondo, Ekiti, Osun states because I was very interested in local tourism after the COVID-19 pandemic. I also went on a trail called the ‘pounded yam’ trail on which a friend showed me the places where great pounded yam is served in the South-West. I enjoyed amazing conversations and beautiful foods. That was a memorable trip for me. Internationally, I have a good memory of a trip that I had to Marrakesh the Atlas Mountain in Morocco. Sometimes, these trips do not require a lot of travelling. I also go on mountain climbing in Abuja. Do you get tired of wearing suits? I dislike suits. I actually wear them out of respect for the culture that has been put in place. But, my prayer is that our generation would be the last generation to wear suit and tie (as official dressing). I think there is a far more comfortable way to be dressed when one works in Nigeria. I love kaftans. I look forward to a banking sector without suits and tie. How do you like to dress when you’re not working? I am a caftan guy. I used to work for City Bank. And, in 2001, they authorised people to dress in a semi-formal way. For about three years, I always dressed in caftans. It was incredibly comfortable to get out of bed and dress up in five minutes and still look good. I think we have amazing designers that we need to patronise. All my local clothes are made in Nigeria. However, I love a properly tailored suit from someone skilled at making suits. But my preference is made in Nigeria clothes. How would you describe yourself as a husband and father? I am a home buddy and those close to me know that if I am not at work or attending certain events, I am almost likely to be found at home. I am a very active participant in the home front. I am actively engaged with my kids. When I can, I take my kids to school. How did you meet your wife and how did you propose to her? Given how private I am, I am actually reluctant to tell you how I met my wife and proposed to her. All I can tell you is that within a couple of months of meeting my wife, I was certain that I was going to propose to her. It was clear to me that she was someone I wanted to start a family with. What are the most profound lessons that life has taught you? I think the greatest gift that life can give anyone is the capacity for empathy. Once one has the capacity to feel other people’s pain, one would also have the capacity to feel their joy. This means that even when one has to make sacrifices for other people, it would bring one joy. Also, it means that if one’s action will cause pain to others, it will also cause one pain. I believe that empathy is totally underrated. The second lesson I have learnt with life is that every day, one has one day less to live. So, either one does something or not, one is dying anyway. Therefore, it is better to die doing something that one believes in. What’s your biggest fear? I am most terrorised by the risk that I could cause pain to the people that I care about. Whenever I think of the possibilities that my actions may cause pains, I don’t always know how to deal with that. On the national level, I fear that we hand over a country that is worse than the one we inherited. What’s your assessment of democratic governance in Nigeria since 1999? When one judges progress, it depends on one’s context. If one judges progress over a period of five years, it is very different from judging progress over a period of 50 years. I lived in a country that was under military rule. I also lived in a country where for the first 16 years, the country was ruled by a particular party. Therefore, for me, I see things that suggest progress. However, as perfect as we like to see democracy, it is something that must evolve. The next job for us as Nigerians is to make our democracy to grow and localise it to serve us better. Do you have any culinary skills? I can fry plantain and as a younger man, I was actually a good cook. I can cook but I have not cooked for a long time. The last time I cooked was during the COVID-19 lockdown. The lockdown was a period where family bonded well. Was that the same for you? The real gift from the COVID-19 lockdown is that the time I would have spent in the office became available and therefore I could utilise it very well. That period also made it easy to plan family activities. For instance, I could have meetings from morning to 2pm and take a break to spend time with the kids. Whereas, if I was in the office, I would not have been able to incorporate those activities into my life. I was able to put more time into the family than I would have. What are your hobbies? I am a very active person, so my hobbies revolve around been outdoors. I love running and hiking. I also love driving and this surprises most people. It is one place where one is alone with one’s thoughts. Also, poetry is on top of the list of my hobbies. I read and write poetry. Have you ever toyed with the idea of publishing it? I think when I am less busy and have the time to put the discipline into doing the hard work, I might consider it. Right now, the work I do is very amateurish and I do not intend to publish them. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com