The Chairman, Nigerian Bar Association, Makurdi chapter, Justin Gbagir, on Wednesday alleged that he was beaten up by operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission in the Benue State capital. The NBA chairman said he visited the office of the anti-graft agency on Tuesday to secure the release of one of his members, Mrs Ave Shima, who was being detained by the commission. Gbagir, who spoke to our correspondent on a bed at the Benue State University Teaching Hospital, Makurdi, said he was informed that Ashima, who is a law officer at the state Ministry of Justice and assigned to render legal services to the State Universal Basic Education Board, was detained when she went with the SUBEB officials to the commission’s office. He stated, “So, I rushed to the EFCC office and on my way, I made a post on the NBA WhatsApp platform and enjoined other colleagues, who could make it, to o join me there. “Immediately, I alighted from the NBA official bus, the security men at the EFCC gate shouted at me: ‘Who are you?’ and I replied: ‘I am a Nigerian.’” He added that he was not allowed to enter the office until the state Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Michael Gusa, and Solicitor-General came in. “As we entered the office, the Solicitor-General introduced me to the head of the EFCC that I am the Chairman, NBA, Makurdi banch, and offered his seat to me. And as I made to sit down, the EFCC Head, Oseni Kassim, said I could not sit down, because I am an agitator,” he stated. Gbagir said he queried the decision to keep him standing and made it clear that since he was not an accused, he would leave. He added, “As I made to leave, the personnel of the EFCC numbering about seven pounced on me and started beating me. They broke my recommended eye glasses in the process and pushed me out of the premises. “Infuriated by the action, the attorney-general, solicitor-general and the SSA to the Governor on Legal Matters also walked out of the premises and met us with other lawyers, including the Director of Public Prosecutions, who were outside. “I then decided to come to the BSUTH, where I was admitted and receiving treatment. I slept off after the hospital administered several injections on me to relieve the pain and woke up in the early hours of today (Tuesday). “Meanwhile, I am still having serious pain around my neck, left eye, waist and my right and left hands.” However, the anti-graft agency, in an unsigned statement posted on the platform of the EFCC in the state, denied the allegation. The Information Officer in the office, Adebayo Adeniran, said, “You people should wait and get a formal press release from the EFCC spokesperson in Abuja, Wilson Uwujaren. “I have carried out an investigation into the allegation that the NBA Chairman, Makurdi branch, was beaten and it is not true.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com