Pain is an unpleasant experience which all persons bear. It is the end result of certain events occurring within the nervous system that causes the activation of certain parts of it to produce pain. Pain is, therefore, an uncomfortable sensation which can vary in character from irritating or annoying to frankly debilitating. It can feel like a dull ache, like the kind of pain you can feel inside the tummy when there is a stomach infection that leads to diarrhoea and vomiting. In such circumstances, the pain may be what warns you that you must go near a toilet in case there needs to be one more visit to the place. At other times, it can feel like a piercing pain such as one might feel when an assailant stabs one in the thigh with a knife. Other descriptions for pain may be stinging such as when bitten by a soldier ant, or when it is burning as when hot oil pours over a foot. It can be described as throbbing such as one might feel with the pain associated with appendicitis. Finally, when muscles are cramped from running or playing, the kind of pain they elicit can be described as sore. All these describe the character of pain. The intensity of pain has a broad range which makes it a subjective thing to measure. Some people can tolerate pain to a huge degree. For many, it is an innate gift. For many more, they learn to bear pain. This learning process may stem from the duration of such pain such that one gets used to it, or because people are not permitted to express the sensation of such pain as a cultural norm. Such an expression is seen typically among the Fulani in both sexes. The men endure severe corporal punishment before they are allowed to marry, while the women do not express the pain they feel during labour and childbirth. Pain can be a result of some local injury, or pressure point affecting a part of the body such as the right foot because a stool in the living room fell over it. It can also be generalised such as might happen when someone has got malaria. Therefore, the presence of pain tells us that something is wrong. And the ability to describe that pain is usually an important piece of information to be given to your doctor. When the nature of pain is known, it gives some indication of what its cause might be. Pain may be occasional and would usually be mild when it is like that. It can also be intermittent in which case, it comes and goes perhaps several times within a particular time frame. This is often seen in the labour room or delivery suite when the frequency of pain is expressed as contractions per minute and the duration of each contraction in seconds, is a useful way to determine the progress of labour. So it is seen in this situation that pain is not always a bad thing. Today, in most western countries, many women are not even allowed to undergo such suffering in the labour room especially with the deployment of many different types of medications to deal with such situations. Some types of pain are easy to diagnose with regards to their cause. Others may be more difficult to diagnose and may turn out to be a sign of some serious disease like the dull, intermittent abdominal pain associated with cancer of the colon. The minor types of pain can usually be managed at home. The approach to all these different types of pain can be similar in that many people would have experimented with available pain relievers such as they can get from the neighborhood pharmacy. It is when this fails to yield them the desired result that they seek expert help. Pain is often caused by a very specific, identifiable condition. The predisposing factor could be an injury or some medical condition. Sometimes, the cause of a particular pain may not be that evident and could even defeat a doctor’s probing. However, a doctor would usually have a number of possible causes all of which would be eliminated or confirmed by specific examination of the part of the body that is involved or by requesting specific examinations to be conducted. Such pain could be described as acute like when a person sustains a fracture, or it could be chronic such as when someone has got a boil between the buttocks. Some of the common causes of pain are cuts, bruises and burns which are common injuries that plague mankind. As long as men will depend on machines and other mechanical devices to do many things in the modern age, these common causes of pain will continue to be with us. Other causes are fractures involving any bone, toothache and headache. A sore-throat will cause pain just like muscle cramps, stomach cramps and ankle sprains. Pain is something that can cause a variety of things to different people. Some people vomit when they are in pain. Others black out and actually suffer fainting attacks. When you go to a hospital to complain about pain, the proper thing that gets done is that the doctor takes a history of the pain which is an attempt to chronicle what the pain is about. The time it began and how it has behaved over the course of time are important in trying to determine what may have caused it. It is important to know whether such pain is mild in nature, or moderate or severe. It will also be investigated to see whether the pain affects your life in any way and how it does this. It is good to know if it interferes with sleep for example, or whether it affects the quality of the work you do. The next thing to know is whether the pain is affected by certain factors in the environment, namely, whether the pain is made worse by certain things while being improved by others. It will also be asked of you whether you are currently on any medications to try to deal with this and for how long, and in what dosage. This is easier to handle when it is known if it is tied to any health conditions you may also have. Depending on the associated conditions you might have, the doctor would request that certain tests be done to help in identifying what may be responsible for the pain. General blood tests like the complete blood count which we discussed about three months ago will be ordered to look for such evidence. An infection will be a top priority for such a search as well as urine, stool and cerebro-spinal spinal fluid examinations all of which must add up to determine whether there is an infection present. These tests also help determine if a certain kind of pain may be due to cancer or a metabolic disorder such as gout. X-rays, ultrasound scan, computerized tomography (CT scan) and MRI scan (Magnetic Resonance Imaging), can also be of assistance in helping to determine whether internal organs, nerves, muscles, bones, tendons or ligaments have suffered some damage and may be responsible for the pain. However, these modalities of investigation of pain tend to be available mainly in the cities. In the vast expanses of the countryside where the majority of the population lives, many of these equipment cannot be found except X-rays. So, the option of obtaining a tissue biopsy where this is thought to be necessary is often not possible due to paucity of storage materials. Commonly, tissue biopsies where obtained, could take as long as four weeks to get a report back because they must be transported hundreds of kilometres from where the tissue was obtained. Nerve function tests which are not even available in many of our teaching hospitals are also necessary equipment useful in the diagnosis of the cause of pain. In the final analysis, there is room for the psychological evaluation of a patient with pain whose origin is not clear. It is important to know that when pain has some unclear origin then it may be related to depression. So that if in the end, there is no evidence that some underlying damage is responsible for a certain kind of pain, it is possible you have a functional pain syndrome which is usually diagnosed after other possible causes of any similar pain have been ruled out. When the treatment for the pain must start, it will be quickly noted that it is dependent on the cause. Pain occurring as a result of an acute condition laid out above will resolve once the cause has been dealt with. Chronic pain, which has stayed for long, is more problematic to diagnose and treat. Dear doctor, let me join the hundreds of your readers (including me) who often pray and acknowledge your good response to their medical questions. You are indeed a lucky man. Why? You get paid by Punch Nigeria Limited and still get prayers. Whao, how many bankers, civil servants or journalists get the same treatment? Bless you. Now to the main issue as I have used the above to ease the anger in me over the complaints of two of your colleagues both medical practitioners, who highlighted what they passed through, and may still do ref: the above in private practice in Sunday PUNCH June 13, 2021. First, I am angry that in this 21st century, learned men as they are could still be harrassed, bullied, detained and financially exploited without recourse to the law of the land. Holy Moses! I am shocked beyond words. Syl, these men are part of the Nigerian educated few who are not making this country move/improve because they have cowardly refused to stand up for their rights. I thought you would have mentioned this in your response to their comments/experience as a professional colleague. You never did, why?  Some members of the Police Force always want soft pawns on society’s chess board; soft targets they can easily push around. I worked with them for 14 years in three states of the federation. Don’t these men have family lawyers/friends who could/would have advised them? They were arrested, probably without “Warrants”, detained without being charged to court in gross violation of their human rights. They were even falsely imprisoned without being found guilty by a court of law in the land. They lost earnings, probably also dehumanised during these periods of detention in police custody. The list can go on and on. I feel so bad because their respective lawyers failed to take appropriate legal action/s that could have put a stop to this nightmare they went through and may still go through.  Their legal reps could have written letters of complaints and protest to the Commissioners of Police in the states where these men practice and copy both the I.G (Inspector General) and A.I.G (Assistant Inspector General) of the zones involved. The State and Medical Council of Nigeria also should have been put in the know. Why they never did baffles me. A drastic situation requires a drastic solution, an adage says. These men and many more may continue to “suffer” except this ungodly act is exposed to the relevant authorities and the public. Finally, until we know/hear the other side don’t let us jump to conclusions as there are always two sides to every coin. God bless.                                                        xxx@xxx.com.com Thank you so very much for your contribution. One can feel your anger at what these colleagues were put through by policemen. The local branch of the NMA (Nigerian Medical Association) and the Association of General and Private Medical Practitioners (AGPMP) are usually alerted when these things happen. They are quick too to respond but you and I know how things happen once they get to the police station. These associations can spend 24 hours without being able to see the DPO (Divisional Police Officer) or the DCO (Divisional Crime Officer). If the poor doctor has been arrested on a Friday, the chances are that he will spend the weekend in custody. In one case known to yours truly, a very senior colleague was called to a hospital in Lagos to perform an operation on a four-year-old boy whose urethral opening was located at the wrong part of his penis. The operation had been attempted before by another surgeon and it failed. This time, it failed as well. The father of the boy, a customs officer, got the police to arrest the doctor because this reconstructive operation did not succeed. He was released the following day but it represents nothing more than the flaunting of naked power. Dear doctor, your article on law enforcement and healthcare is a serious issue. It is happening all the time. It happens often and often and the violation continues unchecked. I just pray that God will raise a just person to save healthcare in Nigeria. Ours is a country where injustice prevails in all facets of life. May the Lord deliver us from injustice and raise a deliverer for us.   0803xxxxxxx Frankly, I didn’t even realise that the problem is as widespread as people are making me understand. One can only answer your prayer with a loud Amen. Sometimes, the dimensions the problem takes are infinitely concerning and even though, on paper, there are channels to seek redress the Nigerian legal system will frustrate any but the most diligent pursuit of justice. The huge question would be how many doctors in private practice have the financial wherewithal to do this. Finally, even if the case is eventually won, the police would not pay judgement debt. There is no gain, therefore, in the quest. Dear doctor, thank you for all the information you give us every week. I noticed my face keeps shining these days and it is something that I have never noticed before. Please what could be the cause? Thank you.  0704xxxxxxx In order to answer a question like this properly, one would need to know your gender and how old you are. In this case you did not provide any, so you should see a doctor as a rule when something for which you have no explanation happens in your body. You should therefore visit a hospital and complain so that a proper examination can be done and the cause of this new sheen on your face can be determined. Doctor doctor, we thank the Lord for your life and work, and pray that the Lord grants you the strength to continue. I read the commentary of Sunday, May 6 and was deeply touched by its frankness, and the ripple effect of the narration. Is there any hope for meaningful existence without graft and misbehaviour? Until the very basis of our earthly laws is the truth, our laws will be faulty while we continue to suffer doctors. There is a need to set up a truth commission ahead of any conference and other calls for reforms. It takes too much to train a doctor and we are losing them to other climes where the laws are upheld. Our sons and daughters work in those climes admirably. They are not criminals. It is this system that corrupts. Thank you doctor for this piece. God bless you and please have a good day.  0808xxxxxxx Thank you very much for your comments and your prayers as well. Now we have a peculiar pattern; there are the senior doctors in teaching and research roles who come in and go out of Nigeria on a regular basis. Then there are those who graduated within the last five years. Most of the people between these very young ones and the very senior ones have left the country. Even among the younger ones, the majority are studying for one examination or another to enable them to leave as well. It is scary indeed. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com