Former National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, on Monday, appealed to party members in Edo State to keep faith in the party irrespective of its present challenges in the state. Comrade Oshiomhole made this appeal during the party’s enlarged leaders meeting across the Edo North senatorial district. He said that irrespective of the outcome of the last governorship election in the state, Edo North APC has enough reasons to be proud of winning the senatorial zone. “The unity of this senatorial zone must be maintained, serviced and sustained. The only way to sustain it is through cooperation and constant meetings at all levels. I appeal to party leaders to always have all-inclusive meetings to carry everybody along at the wards, local and state levels. Politics is a game of numbers and everyone is important in politics. “There are grumblings and quarrels in some local governments areas. That is understandable because in a relationship there are bound to be quarrels, but as leaders, we must realise that we have a duty to settle such quarrels and put them behind us.” He commended 14 APC House of Assembly members-elect who are yet to be sworn in while expressing the belief that justice would be served at the right time. He also told the party members across the senatorial zone to be proud of themselves because as of today, no projects are ongoing in Edo North apart from constituency projects being done by APC legislators in the National Assembly and those influenced by the Hon. Minister, Clem Agba. He said that since 2012, the party has not lost any position in the House of Assembly, House of Representatives and Senate not because the people elected were perfect but because the people were determined to vote for the party’s candidates at all time. He added, “I have every reason to be grateful to God for His grace upon me. It is on record that I did not only govern Edo State for eight years, but the party also worked hard to have my successor elected on its platform. It does not matter what happened after. I was also privileged to become the national chairman of our party and it does not matter even if I had spent just two days in that office. “It is for this reason that I have an obligation to continue to maintain and sustain the ladder which by the help of other people I used to climb up so that others too can take advantage of that ladder to even climb higher than I did.
‎
Sen. Francis Alimikhena thanked members of the party for their resilience. He promised that he would continue to do his best to justify the mandate given to him. Hon. Peter Akpatason, Hon. Johnson Ughuma, Hon. Abubakar Momoh and the senatorial leader, Barr. Sunday Mayaki also urged the party faithful to keep faith with the party ahead of the 2023 general elections while thanking them for their loyalty to the party that has brought federal development to the senatorial district.
‎
Among other members who attended the meeting were former commissioners Hon. Joseph Ugheoke, Chief Lucky James, Hon. Inimidu and Hon. Mika Amanokhai. Also present were Major Gen. Ilogho rtd, Hon. Folly Ogedengbe, Prof. Marcel Okhakhu, Engr. Saliu Ahmed, Alh. Jim Garuba, Chief M M Momoh, Hon. Victor Oshioke, Hon. Anselm Agabi, Alh. Abdulganiyu Lawani, former council chairmen, party chairmen, women and youth leaders and councillors.‎