Event planner and Chief Executive Officer of Finesse Events, Kehinde Iyiola, tells TOFARATI IGE about her career, family and other issues How did you find yourself in event management? I think God ordained it. When I was about to graduate from the university, my mum told me that because of the trait I had of helping to organise the events of family and friends, event management was a career I could pursue. She then told me to trust God about the funding and that was how I started. You studied Law. How easy was it for you to ditch that career after many years of study and opt for event management? Right from my third year in the university, I knew I was not going to practise Law. I enjoyed planning events. I then reached out to a friend that we should form and register an event management company. She agreed, but when we were about to start off, her husband was not in full support of the idea, so I had to carry my ‘cross’. How were you able to convince your first client? My first client was actually my sister, who was a staff of Guarantee Trust Bank. I planned and managed her wedding. She trusted me to do a wonderful job and she paid me for handling the decorations and other things. After my sister’s wedding, some of the guests were interested in the brand and from there, we were contracted to handle about four different weddings. How did you evolve from being an event manager to owning an event centre? I started doing event management and decoration as a freelancer. As time went on, we started renting out different equipment for events. The event centre is a sister company that came into existence some months ago. What inspired the name of your event centre, White Stone? We had started the project and were working on it but there was no name, and that did not seem right. So, I asked God to give me a name for it. Shortly after that, I took a five-minute nap and I heard the name ‘White Stone’. I immediately wrote it down and that’s how the name came about. How were you able to raise funds in the early days of your business? I often tell people that I started business with zero kobo. God has been the backbone of our finance from inception. As an event planner, one would charge clients for decorations, whether one has materials or not. For the materials we did not have, we would borrow or buy. Over the years, we were able to acquire a lot of equipment and it got to a stage where we could conveniently handle a ceremony of 10,000 guests without borrowing anything. I made sure that whatever proceeds we made were invested into the business. How do you manage incompetent and tardy vendors? Planning an event means one has to be able to manage one’s time and resources well. Someone recently said to me that one of the industries that have high death rates is the event management industry because of the pressure one has to handle. However, if one is able to put proper plans in place, things would be much easier. It is important to start planning early, so that one can do everything one has to do on time. Also, as an event planner, one must always have a plan B. One is not God and one cannot predict whatever uncertainties may come up, so one has to be prepared for any eventualities. One has to be prayerful too but in doing that, one has to ensure that one has the right team to work with. Make sure you work with reliable vendors and always strive to be on time with planning and decorations. The COVID-19 pandemic affected the events industry all over the world. What was your experience? With all modesty, I can tell you that even during the pandemic, we planned events. Because of the pandemic, people had small events in their houses. The only difference was that there were fewer people at those events. We still had to do most of the other things, such as decorations, that we would have done at bigger halls. We had to set up the stage, eating areas and other elements needed to make a standard event. Nobody expected the pandemic when it came but we were able to withstand the effects. What lessons did the pandemic teach you in terms of diversifying your business? COVID-19 taught us that one must have savings. Also, one should not depend only on one stream of income. The pandemic also taught us to restrategise and focus on what needs to be done and what we need to let go of. For example, there were some equipment we did not need at the time, and we sold them to people who needed them outside Lagos. What would you say are the qualities of a successful event planner? One needs to have good customer service. One also has to be very organised. It is also very important to be proactive and spontaneous. One has to be able to think and act fast. One should also pay attention to details. One has to be able to convince one’s clients that when they hand over their events to one, one would deliver exceptional and excellent service. If one is able to do all that, the sky would be the limit for one. What are the most notable events you have managed? Over the years, we have been able to handle a number of big events. We planned one of the 60th birthday ceremonies for Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. We also handled the coronation of Oba Saheed Elegushi, as well as that of the Oba of Ojora, and Oba Oniru. We also planned the burial of the mother of Governor Seyi Makinde, which had about 20,000 guests in attendance. We handled the 80th birthday celebration of Chief Rasaq Okoya as well. We also handled an event for the Bayelsa State government. What are the differences inherent in managing events for elites and those of the average man? For an elitist event, the guests one would cater for already have standards and expectations, which they would not want one to fall short of. However, if one is catering to the average person, they don’t have so many expectations and if one goes the extra mile for them, they would consider it a big deal. When it comes to catering for the elite, one would have to go the extra mile to create wonderful memories for them and make sure they are satisfied. One has to be on top of one’s game more than ever and pay attention to details. What are the elements that make a good event? They include the right location, perfect ambiance, good music, good food and good master of ceremonies. If one has all that, other things would fall into place. How do you ensure you stay on top of pressure and still be as professional as possible, especially when things are not going according to plan? It takes the grace of God to have a discerning spirit to know when to let things go. One should also have patience when dealing with people. It is also important to build relationships with one’s clients. In times of pressure, I try to calm down think before taking action. What are some of those things you learnt in the course of studying Law that are helping you as an event manager? Even after studying Law, I still make some little business mistakes such as not properly tidying up the books, sealing deals properly and signing contracts before some transactions. When one is on the field of work, one learns from experience over and again. In business, one learns every day. Do people sometimes look down on you because of what you do? I always let people know that it is how one portrays or carries oneself that others will treat one. The manner in which one deals with people is the same way people would deal with one. I have never had any client that looked down on me or talked to me rudely because I always act professionally. In what ways have you had to evolve in the event planning and management industry? Social media has helped me to evolve. Everyone wants to know the latest trend and one has to keep up with trends so as to stay relevant in business. Some people believe event planning is at best a side hustle, and not  as one’s major business. What’s your take on that? Event planning is very time-consuming because one has to pay attention to details. One often has to travel and it takes one away from one’s family. It is very hectic, especially when one works back-to-back in ensuring that one does not leave any stone unturned. For all these reasons and more, it cannot even be a side hustle. As an event planner, is it possible to plan for every eventuality? When one gets a proper brief from one’s client, one can create a checklist that has everything one needs to do on it. That would enable one work efficiently and ensure a successful event. What are your other interests? I like watching movies, travelling and meeting new people. I basically like to enjoy life. Event management seems to be a kind of business that anyone can just go into without training. What do you think that portends for the future of the industry? Even if one wants to sell garri (processed cassava), one needs to learn the trade and seek knowledge of what one is venturing into. It is important to learn the basics of any business before going into it. As a married woman, how have you been able to manage your business and home such that none suffers neglect? God blessed me with a lovely husband. He allows me to be myself. We actually met at an event and he has always been pushing me to attaining whatever I want. He constantly encourages me and that is why I have been able to explore and do many things. Many women are held back by marriage because they feel they won’t be able to combine the home front with a career or business. What advice do you have for such people? I tell women that when they want to get married, they should find a partner that will support their dreams and encourage them, not someone that would see them as a competitor. Don’t just find someone that is rich, find someone that is a supporter and an encourager. That way, one would find that marriage is not as hard or difficult as people say. If one has a supportive partner, one would go far. How would you describe your style? I like to be creative and stylish but comfortable with my dressing. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com