The Awori Tourism Board and the National Institute for Hospitality and Tourism partnered to launch a new training institute to help youths create careers in the hospitality industry. According to a statement on Thursday, the Chairman of the board, Femi Fadina, said this during the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding in Ota, Ogun State. He said the partnership was designed to encourage youth involvement, provide employment generation opportunities and ensure the provision of optimum service delivery in the hospitality industry. The signing of MoU, he said, birthed the establishment of the first Tourism Training Institute in Southwest, Nigeria, to train many youths in the country on tourism and hospitality. Fadina stated that the board was prepared to change the trend of neglect of youths in the involvement of the sector. He said that it was imperative to bring youths together in such a giant stride, to procure job opportunity for the youths. According to him, the first in line of the institute would take off in Ota with more coming up in the other Southwest States. Graduates of the school, he added, would be awarded a National Diploma and Higher National Diploma in tourism. He added that it would also accord them the opportunity to pursue education and training up to doctorate level in tourism, assuring that the institute would offer premium and standard learning opportunities, as only the best brains would be engaged to train prospective students. The Zonal Coordinator, Lagos campus, NIHOTOUR, Chinyere Uche-Ibeabuchi, and a senior lecturer in the school, Ejike Ugochi expressed their delight at the collaboration and mentioned that the institute had been specifically established to build youth capacity. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com