The family of Calistus Adonyi, who was arrested by the police two months ago in Isiokpo, Ikwerre Local Government Area of Rivers State, has asked the police to disclose his whereabouts. Calistus’ mother, Mrs Theresa Adonyi, told journalists in Port Harcourt that her son, who works with Dangote Company, was travelling from Port Harcourt to Imo State on April 27 to see her when he was allegedly arrested by the Isiokpo Area Commander and his men. Theresa said it was Calistus’ colleague, who saw him in detention at the Isiokpo Area Command, where he had gone to report an incident involving his company, who informed the family about his arrest. She noted that two months after he was arrested, the family was not told the offence he committed or his state of health. Theresa stated, “I have not seen my son. Nigerians should help me to find Calistus; wherever the Isiokpo Area Commander has kept him, he should bring him out. Somebody told one of my sons that his brother was in the Isiokpo Area Command. The man, who informed me, said his company sent him to where a truck got burnt at Isiokpo. “He went to the police area command to make a report and he saw my son there and now called his brother to inform him.” The apprehensive mother appealed to the state government and public spirited individuals to intervene in the matter. She added, “I went to the Police Public Relations Officer. He said I should go to the Isiokpo Area Commander. He now called him (area commander) and told him that a woman and her daughter came to him that she was looking for her son, Calistus. “The Area Commander said we should come that he was in the office.” She, however, claimed that when she got to him, rather than attending to her, the senior police officer chased her out of his office. Theresa called on the state Commissioner of Police, Eboka Friday, to prevail on the Area Commander to release her son, saying the young man was not a criminal “My son is not a criminal. He is well known in the church. He lives at the Dangote Company’s   quarters. I have not seen him since. My son is innocent. Let Nigerians and the government come to our aid. How can a mother live and let his son die?,” she stated. When contacted, the spokesman for the command, Nnamdi Omoni, said he was aware of the incident and called on the woman to be patient, adding that the matter was being looked into. Omoni stated, “The woman actually came to me and I intervened. But if she has not seen the boy, the best thing is for her to report back to me instead of heating up the matter in the press. “That is not the best way. But I will find out the true situation from the Area Commander, because we have a meeting tomorrow (Monday). Let the woman be patient and allow the police to do their work.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com