The committee set up to investigate the allegations against a former Director General of the Federal Institute of Industrial Research Oshodi, Chima Igwe, has submitted its report, backing Igwe’s demotion and recommending punishment for insubordination. Recall that the Minister of Science and Technology, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, had in May 2021, wrote the Governing Board of FIIRO, ordering the officials to stop the process of installing a substantive DG until the investigation by the Head of Service on Igwe, his preferred candidate, was completed. Igwe’s appointment as acting DG was opposed by the board after the PhD with which he gained promotions for over 18 years became a subject of investigation by the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission. He was later demoted by the board. The PUNCH has learnt that the investigation cited by the minister was concluded in February 2021. A summary of the report, obtained exclusively by our correspondent, was signed by the Head of Service, Dr Folashade Yemi-Esan. The head of service asked the Federal Government to advise Onu to stop interfering in the running of FIIRO and allow the board to do its job. The report, dated February 8, 2021, also asked the board to continue with the process of appointing a substantive DG for the agency. The head of service also recommended that Igwe, apart from being demoted, should be disciplined “for absence from duty and insubordination.” Two senior officials in the Ministry of Education who aided his phantom PhD were recommended for punitive sanctions. Our correspondent could not, however, tell why the HoS report had not been acted on by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd). Recall that after investigations by The PUNCH, and later ICPC confirmed that the doctorate, which he claimed he completed at the Universite D’Abomey Calavi, Benin Republic, in 2001, was non-existent, he was removed. He was also demoted to the position he held more than 18 years ago. He, initially refused to resume at the post. The minister, who was said to have had several face-offs with the board Chairman, Alhaji Ibrahim Gwarzo in Abuja, also ordered he should be reinstated as the acting DG. The minister was alleged to have later accused the governing board of financial misappropriation, but panels set up by the Federal Government to investigate found no evidence for such. The Chief of Staff to the President, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, on December 4, 2020, while responding to correspondence from Onu for Igwe to be confirmed as DG, ordered the Head of Service to look into his certificate issue. A committee was set up and several people were interviewed, including Igwe. In February, the HoS submitted her report. The document stated, “The Governing Board of FIIRO should immediately commence the process of the appointment of a substantive Director General in accordance with Section 2.1.3.3 (a) and (d)  of the Conditions of Service for Federal Research and Development Agencies, Institutes and Colleges (Revised 2019) and in line with Mr President’s directive. “The Governing Board should commence disciplinary procedures against Dr Chima Cartney Igwe, in line with the provisions of PSR 030302 to 030307, for: absence from duty without leave or permission; refusal to carry out lawful instructions from superior authority to revert to Chief Research Officer. “The Governing Board should be commended for the transparent, fair and mature manner it has handled the issue of the Ph.D of Dr Igwe. “The honourable minister (FMST) should be advised to allow the Governing Board of FIIRO to operate freely within the ambit of the provisions of extant regulations guiding the relationship between the ministry and parastatals, and handle the staff matters in line with the provisions of the conditions of service in FIIRO.” On those who aided Igwe’s phantom PhD, she said, “The Director (Education Support Services) in the Federal Ministry of Education who approved the evaluation and the Assistant Director (Evaluation and Accreditation) who evaluated the PhD certificate of Dr Igwe should be sanctioned for lack of diligence in the manner they handled the issue of Dr Igwe.” A source said Onu and the Presidency were in possession of the report. The Senior Special Assistant, Media and Publicity to the President, Garba Shehu, did not take his calls which rang out several times. Onu also did not take his calls or respond to a text message on the issue as of press time. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com