drtay0oke@gmail.com Have you ever wondered why ministerial nominees in Nigeria are never grilled on their particular portfolios during Senate confirmation hearings? Have you also wondered why you rarely see Federal Government ministers answering questions in front of the cameras on their departmental briefs?  The answer is that specific portfolios are never attached to the nominations, so, the all-important Senate ‘screening’ is reduced to a charade, and casual chit-chat about the weather, stanzas of the National Anthem and similar mundane stuff. Some are even urged to “take a bow” and sail through without uttering a word. This is informed by the assumption that ministerial nominees cannot be relied on to give a good account of their suitability for their portfolios without committing serious gaffes, which may damage their chances of being confirmed. Imagine a nominee for Attorney General, Finance, Defence, Foreign Affairs and the like, never getting to answer questions directly related to their portfolios? Some are more than capable of standing their ground, of course, but shielding everyone from answering direct questions, protects the mediocre amongst them. It follows logically, therefore, that once installed, ministers shy away from appearing in front of the cameras to defend government policy. That is left, instead, for the minister of ‘information’ and the press secretaries. Yet, Nigeria is neither bereft of ideas nor short of highly articulate, competent individuals, in all areas of governance, who could be hired at will, all over the country. How many times have you then scratched your head in bewilderment and wondered why cabinet positions or governor’s seats in this well-endowed country are not being filled with notable, competent names, such as Soludo and his ilk? Well, Charles Chukwuma Soludo, a man of letters, and a former governor of Central Bank of Nigeria, with a PhD in economics, was selected last week, June 23, 2021, as the All Progressives Grand Alliance Party’s candidate in the forthcoming governorship election of the restive Anambra State in November 6, 2021. It is a state full of promise, and also full of false dawns. To the many ‘Soludos’ in Nigeria reading this, he has twice been rebuffed for the same slot in 2009, under the PDP, and also disqualified by APGA in 2013. By rising each time he fell, Soludo has, at the very least, demonstrated his staying power. A useful attribute for survival in the murky world of partisan politics. Politics is commonly seen as a ‘dirty game’ not worthy of decent people to get sucked into. In the context of Nigeria, politics is not only a ‘dirty game’, it is indeed, a blood sport. Soludo literally has the bruises to prove that. He was nearly killed by hired assassins as he was campaigning in the otherwise sedate town of Isuofia, Aguata Local Government Area of Anambra State last April. Three of his security aides reportedly lost their lives in the attack, while another one was abducted. This is part of the reasons why the egg heads and the smart alecs of this world do not generally get involved in politics. But, political violence apart, is there any proof that being academically gifted, and having a string of eye-catching professional accolades to boot will make for good political leadership? It is the contention here, this week, that there is no correlation between the impressive initials behind a person’s name and a successful political career. The skills-set required for both are fundamentally different. It is the same with professional footballers. Many of the world’s best dribblers, and accomplished solo artists on the pitch do not necessarily go on to make good managers. Many have turned out to be totally hopeless in the task of managing a team. The two best examples are the legendary Edson Arantes do Nascimento (Pele), and Diego Maradona. Neither of whom managed to replicate their stellar achievements as star players onto the domain of management. Africa has seen politicians with World Bank credentials in high office too. Ex-President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf (Liberia), and currently, President Alassane Outtara (Ivory Coast) to mention but two. Neither of them has performed miracles, both of them have been pretty average leaders in fact. Former US President, Donald Trump, made much of his pedigree as a businessman, who would run America with the efficacy and deftness of a CEO expecting a high return for every investment decision made, as in his “America first” mantra. He soon found out that business office is remarkably different from political office, as he was sent parking at the end of his first term. Best advice to those betting their bottom dollar on Soludo is, take a pause for breath. For all his amazing personal accomplishments, he is an untested quantity. He has spent his entire life in the finance field at home and abroad. He has lived in a world of certainty, and predictability, but now stepping into one full of quicksand volatilities, mischief, intrigues, and a bucket load of skulduggery. As an economist of repute, he commanded attention by his grasp, display, and mastery of figures and movement of capital. He would have institutions, and organisations soak up his recommendations and prescriptions in awe and special reverence. In the world of politics, however, Soludo would find that, sometimes, ramming home objective facts and workable solution is not always the best option. A deeply counterintuitive proposition for a sure-footed economist. Instead of people lapping up every word he utters, as in his previous life, he would be operating often in rooms full of adversaries, even from within his own cabinet. Instead of having a compliant board at his beck and call, he may have to contend with a legislature ganging up against his ‘well-thought-out’ policy ideas, not necessarily because they are bad, but more likely because they want to score a point. The values you need for success in the world of finance and economics are not the same ones needed to navigate the thorny pathway of partisan politics. In his acceptance speech, broadcast live on TV, last week, Soludo reeled out his early achievements as a professional, and his meteoric rise to the top, having walked the corridors of financial powerhouses around the world. He also cited his numerous awards for best this, best that, and the other. He talked of his over “200 honorary titles”, being at the top table of any financial house worthy of the name around the world, etc. He said all of that, but glaringly failed to mention or reference a single item that connects him to real people, in the real world. He failed to mention or reference a single item that reflects his own passion or vision for politics. Just look at my CV. Clearly, this is a man with a strong sense of his own self-importance; a potentially fatal error in democratic politics. He touted his world-wide credential as a consultant without explaining how that feeds his passion to represent his people. All politics, after all, is local. Remember, former US President, Barack Obama, with his high-wired connection to Columbia and Harvard Universities, as well as the US Senate, and world-wide contacts, reified his brief stint as a “community organiser” during his campaign for President in 2008. To succeed in governance, our men (and women) of letters in this country must learn to humble themselves.  Glittering resumes are no substitute for ability to relate to people, inspire them, and above all, exemplify moral leadership. Let us wish Professor Soludo well in his quest for electoral mandate, but firmly remind him that as governor, he would be a servant (not master) of the people. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com