Oyo State Police Command on Monday paraded three suspects arrested in connection with last Wednesday’s mayhem at Iwo Road, Ibadan, the state capital. The suspects are officials of Park Management System, which runs the affairs of motor parks in the state since Governor Seyi Makinde proscribed the state chapter of the National Union of Road Transport Workers and established the PMS. The Commissioner of Police in the state, Ngozi Onadeko, while briefing journalists, said the suspects were arrested because of their alleged involvement in the mayhem. The CP said, ‘Investigation is still ongoing, I will continue to update you about what we get from the investigation.” Speaking on the increasing insecurity in the state capital, the CP stated that the police were working round the clock to curb this. She also appealed to members of the public to support security agencies to achieve this. One of the suspects, Omoniyi Elemo, told journalists that he did not attack anybody but claimed that he was attacked and injured by some of the phone dealers. He stated that the police arrested him at the hospital where he was taken to for treatment, saying he knew nothing about the clash. He said he was working at Iwo Road as an official of the PMS and on the fateful day, he approached a motorist who wanted to park on the road. He said he told him not to obstruct the way but the driver said he had no right to instruct him where to or not to park. Elemo said as he was trying to explain to the driver, some boys came out from the Iwo Road Shopping Complex and started beating him. He added that one of the boys injured him on the face with a stone and he was taken to hospital from where he was arrested by the police. Meanwhile, gunmen on a motorcycle reportedly invaded Iyana Court, Ile Titun area in Ibadan South-East Local Government Area of Ibadan and killed three persons. Our correspondent gathered that a physically challenged man identified as Sodiq was the target of the hoodlums. Sodiq, who was said to have a hunch on his back, was shot dead. An unidentified roadside trader and her daughter were also killed. The incident reportedly happened at about 10:30 pm on Sunday. It was gathered that the gunmen made sure that Sodiq was dead before they escaped through Olomi. As at the time of filing this report, the Police Public Relations Officer, Oyo State, Adewale Osifeso, was yet to get back to our correspondent.