The Lagos State Government has said the Apapa traffic situation has improved just as it urged terminal operators to support the interventions set in place to end the gridlock in Apapa and its environs. The Special Adviser to the Governor of Lagos State on Transportation, Oluwatoyin Fayinka, disclosed this during an operation review meeting with terminal operators in the Tin Can Island ports at Apapa, according to a statement signed on Saturday by the Assistant Director, Public Affairs, Bolanle Ogunlola. The Special Adviser on Transportation who doubles as the Chairman, Traffic Management Enforcement Team in the statement titled, ‘Apapa gridlock has improved’, said that the meeting was in continuation of efforts to enlist the support of all the critical stakeholders in the ports at Apapa to get rid of the gridlock. Fayinka, who noted that traffic in and out of Apapa and its environs had improved, said, “If you come in through Eko Bridge, Ijora, SIFAX or Iganmu, the road is free. The only problem we are having now is from Area B to the Port.’’ Speaking on the plan to bring shippers to the roundtable as well so that they could be in sync with the transport initiative of the present administration, he said, “We have actually met with Shippers’ Council and they told us they are ready. “We have agreed that the next meeting will be to engage the Shippers Council, the truckers, the terminal operators, Nigerian Ports Authority and every other stakeholder so that they can all air their challenges. “This is because we will want the Shippers Council to be up and doing in the evacuation of empty containers. It is their responsibility to remove empty containers from blocking the roads.” The Chairman of Apapa Local Government Area, Adele Elijah, while charging terminal operators on the need to support the e-call up system, said the time of making excuses was over and everyone must cooperate with the state government on Apapa traffic gridlock intervention. Also at the event, Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Central Business District, Sola Giwa, asked terminal operators to automate their operations. Responding, Chairman, Seaport Terminal Operators Association of Nigeria, Vicky Hastrup, stressed that the existence of petroleum tank farms within Apapa area was the beginning of the traffic woes of the area. She asked the state government to engage the Federal Government and relocate the tank farms as the state was sitting on a keg of gunpowder According to the statement, the terminal operators promised that they would not constitute any form of encumbrance to the current intervention set in place to end the traffic gridlock in Apapa and its environs. Meanwhile, PUNCH has gathered that some truckers had resorted to forging the e-call up forms. President of Council of Maritime Transport Unions and Associations, Leye Thompson, in a recent telephone interview with our correspondent, said nine truckers had been arrested with fake e-call up forms at Area B Police station and vowed to take it up. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 