A murderous reign of terror by bandits and sundry criminals is crippling Nigeria. Instead of abating as the citizens expected, bandits are mercilessly spreading their nefarious tentacles to hitherto safe communities around the country. In the past two weeks, the killers have stamped their bloody imprint on Osun, Anambra, Kaduna, Zamfara, Katsina, Benue and Niger states. Disturbingly, the regime of the President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), seems to have lost control of the state to criminals. Living in Buhari’s Nigeria is nightmarish. Most of the 23 different indicators, including political terror, deaths from internal conflict, and murder rate, used by the Global Peace Index 2021 to measure how dangerous or safe a country is,  are afflicting Nigeria. Out of 163 countries, Nigeria is placed 16th in the group of 20 with war-ravaged countries like Afghanistan, Syria, South Sudan, Yemen, Iraq and Somalia. Our analysis of the GPI data suggests that Nigeria again occupies the seventh position among the most dangerous countries for women. These days, nowhere or nobody is safe anymore. In Wasinmi, a rural Osun community, gunmen audaciously wiped out a family of six in mid-March. The massacre is a vivid reminder of the rapid descent into the lawlessness in the country. That same period, gunmen attacked a commercial vehicle between Ikere-Ekiti in Ekiti State and Iju, a border town with Ondo State, killing a passenger. At the weekend, gunmen kidnapped Kolawole Omotayo, a community leader in Imope-Ijebu, Ijebu North Local Government Area. In another clime, these violent incidents would have instigated emergency actions by the government. In the absence of that, bandits are boldly taking on the Nigerian state. They move through the highways and communities unchallenged. At the moment, Anambra is under a vicious siege from criminals. In the two weeks to March 21, gunmen invaded four police stations there, the latest being the attack on the Mgbakwu station in Awka North LGA. Apart from carting away arms and ammunition from these stations, the hoodlums also slaughtered four Nigerian Navy officers, six police officers, two prison warders and civilians. In nearby Imo State, an officer lost his life during a bombardment by gunmen on the Isiala Mbano Divisional Police Headquarters on March 20. This is disquieting. For now, no one is sure whether it is the Nigerian state or bandits who are in power in the North-West. Since December, bandits have turned to raiding schools. In Katsina State, bandits kidnapped over 300 pupils in Kankara; about 279, aged 10 to 17 in Jangebe, Zamfara State; 39 at the Federal Forestry College, Kaduna and 27 pupils and teachers in Kagara, Niger State. Bandits murdered Abba Haki, an aide of a former Sokoto State governor, Aliyu Wamakko, two days after his abduction in Durbawa, Kware LGA. In most of northern Nigeria, farmers have become endangered because bandits have taken over vast swathes of the territory. Air strikes by the Nigeria Air Force have done little to stem the tide. According to a Brookings Institution report, the situation is deteriorating rapidly. The report, published in February, attributed the violence to four main factors. One, Nigeria is highly vulnerable because of its long, porous and undermanned borders. Nigeria and Niger Republic alone share 1,497 kilometres of these uncontrolled borders. There is another 85 kilometres of borders with Chad in the northern fringes. This creates a critical challenge for the security agencies, especially the Customs and Immigration, which are not known for being well armed or equipped with the technological capacity. The second factor is linked to the first: bandits smuggle in vast quantities of lethal arms through the unregulated borders. The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime says that Nigeria is home to 70 percent of the illicit 500 million small and light weapons in West Africa. Three is the poor governance, poverty and climate change-fragility nexus. Lastly, there is the overburdened security apparatus and diminishing presence of the Federal Government. Ordinarily, the military are to fight wars, but troops are conducting joint security operations with the police in at least 33 states. This unusual arrangement, a carryover from the military rule, has not achieved much. Rather, wise counsel demands that the police are empowered to do their job, and the military called in only as a last resort. In truth, as currently constituted, the police are no match for the sophistication of the criminals. For a country of 206 million, they are shorthanded. This endangers even police officers. In January, about 100 bandits killed four officers in an attack on their convoy on the Birnin Gwari-Funtua Highway, as the team returned to Kano State. Their absence in a majority of communities gives a loophole to criminals to perpetrate heinous crimes of robbery, mass kidnapping, and arson, cattle rustling and gun-running. Illegally, a third of the about 370,000 officers are deployed to VIPs. Seriously, this has to be reformed immediately. It does not need any law, just commonsense dictates that the officers attached to VIPs ought to be withdrawn. In the long term, it is overly optimistic of the Federal Government to expect that the current single police system being controlled from the centre would secure the country. Nigeria is a natural federation. In such systems, decentralised policing is the order of the day. In the United States, Australia, Germany, Canada and Switzerland, policing is devolved. Although a unitary polity, the lesson from the United Kingdom is that decentralised policing is sine qua non for security. As such, there are 43 police organisations in England and Wales. Here, the Federal Government is playing base politics with the issue of security by staying aloof on the regional policing efforts like ‘Operation Amotekun’ by the South-West. Today, banditry poses a fundamental threat to the country. To rescue the country from criminals, the Buhari regime should declare an all out war on criminality. There is no doubt that crime thrives in contexts where there’s little deterrence. To extend government presence to rural communities, the regime should initiate a constitutional process leading to the establishment of state police. A missing link in the deplorable security system is that bandits are not being prosecuted, but are treated by some misguided state officials as ‘freedom fighters’ to be negotiated with and rewarded with amnesty. This is dangerous and unduly simplistic. Bandits are criminals who deserve severe punishment. It should be like that. Federal, state and LGAs should devise technology solutions like CCTV cameras and drone technology for law enforcement. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com