The Christian Association of Nigeria on Tuesday commended the Vatican for rejecting the same-sex union or marriage saying it was in line with biblical principles. CAN also called on any government, especially in Africa, that had endorsed same-sex marriage to retreat from the practice. A statement issued by the General Secretary of CAN, Joseph Daramola, also commend the Nigerian government for resisting the pressure to reverse its earlier anti-same-sex policy and law. READ ALSO: US contacts Nigerian visa applicants affected by Trump’s travel restrictions He said, “Our joy knew no bound when we learnt that the decision of the Vatican’s doctrinal office, the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith (CDF) rejecting the same-sex union or marriage was endorsed by Pope Francis. “It is one decision too many. We agreed with the Pope that the godly and timely decision is “not intended to be a form of unjust discrimination, but rather a reminder of the truth of the liturgical rite”. “CAN commends Pope Francis for standing by the Scripture that is superior to any civilization. That decision is the position of the Scripture as stated unambiguously in Genesis 9:20-27, Genesis 19:1-11, Leviticus 18:22, 20:13, Romans 1:18-32, 1 Corinthians 6:9-10, 1 Timothy 1:10. READ ALSO: EU reports Nigeria to WTO over ban on milk importation “Whatever law that contradicts these passages of the Bible is totally unacceptable, reprehensible and must be rejected. Even the practice is accursed to the animals, we wonder why normal human beings will be practising it and we condemn it in strong terms. “We totally agreed with the Vatican that, what is to be blessed needs to be “objectively and positively ordered to receive and express the grace, according to the designs of God inscribed in creation, and fully revealed by Christ the Lord. READ ALSO: Strange disease: Three dead, 284 hospitalised in Kano “For this reason, it is not licit to impart a blessing on relationships, or partnerships, even stable, that involve sexual activity outside of marriage (i.e., outside the indissoluble union of a man and a woman open in itself to the transmission of life), as is the case of the unions between persons of the same sex.” “We call on any government, especially in Africa, that has endorsed same-sex marriage to retreat from the practice. We commend the Nigerian government for resisting the pressure to reverse its earlier anti-same-sex policy and law.”