About 1,500 teams of health workers will be deployed by Ekiti, Bauchi and Kano state governments in different parts of the states to administer doses of COVID-19 vaccine jabs, Sunday PUNCH has learnt. Our correspondents gathered that 78 teams would be moblised in Ekiti, 872 in Bauchi while a team of health workers would be deployed across each of the 509 designated centres in Kano. The Executive Chairman, Bauchi State Primary Health Care Development Agency, Dr. Rilwan Mohammed, said the state Governor, Bala Mohammed, had directed that the administration of the AstraZeneca vaccine be commenced immediately. He stated this while handing over 80,570 doses of the vaccine given to the state by the NPHCDA. The chairman said those that would administer the jabs had been trained, stating that “872 teams will deployed in the 323 primary health care centers and 18 selected general hospitals across the state will be used.” He added, “The second part of the training for health care workers at the local government and facility levels as well as independent monitors would be done on Thursday and Friday.” The Ekiti State Commissioner for Health, Dr Banji Filani, said 78 teams comprising six health workers each would be engaged to deliver the AstraZeneca shots across the state. He said the government planned to vaccinate all health workers in the state including those in the private sector. “The numbers of health workers who had received the vaccine are being collated daily,” Filani said, adding that no side effect had been recorded so far. The Coordinator, State Task Force on COVID-19 in Kano, Dr Tijjani Husain told one of our correspondents on Friday that the state government would deploy health workers for the vaccination exercise to at least 509 designated centres. Husain did not disclose the number of health workers to be recruited for the exercise but said training had commenced for the personnel. On whether there was any report of adverse effects, he said “as the coordinator state task force on COVID-19, I took the vaccine and I have not experienced any reaction since it was administered on me. So, we are yet to receive any report from the few people that were vaccinated during the inauguration of the exercise.” Meanwhile, the Gombe State Commissioner for Health Dr. Habu Dahiru, said 35,000 persons, particularly health workers at both public and private sectors were being targeted in the first phase of the vaccination. He added, “During the inauguration, strategic leaders will be immunised to give more confidence to the people that the vaccine is safe.” Gombe State Commissioner for health, Yakubu Danja, said training of personnel that would carry out the vaccination in the 34 councils of the state had been concluded on Friday. He disclosed that over 13,000 frontline workers were expected to receive from the 107,540 doses given to the state. The Health Commissioner in Zamfara, Alhaji Yahaya Kanoma, said the state had received the doses but had yet to commence vaccination. This is just as the Akwa Ibom State Government said it had put in place a mechanism to monitor adverse reactions to the vaccine. The state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Ini Ememobong, said, “The state already has a reporting system which will be monitoring the adverse reaction, if any, of the vaccine for possible intervention. That is being handled by the Ministry of Health.” The Commissioner for Health in Cross River State, Dr Betta Edu, also said health workers had been trained to attend to any adverse effect. “We provide kits for teams consisting six persons per team to monitor adverse effects of the immunisation. If there is any adverse effect following immunisation, the team will immediately attend to the person,” she noted. Health Commissioner in Anambra, Dr Vincent Okpala, confirmed receipt of 78,810 doses of the AstraZeneca but said the vaccination had been suspended as the governor, Willie Obiano, asked residents to register online to get vaccinated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   