Friday Olokor, Abuja AGAINST all odds, a woman may succeed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), in the 2023 Presidency, a member of the All Progressives Congress Supervisory Committee on the North Central Registration and Revalidation, Hajiya Zainab Marwa-Abubakar, has said. She, however, said Nigerian women had yet to make the decision on who among them would succeed the President. The APC chieftain, who is the daughter of the Chairman/Chief Executive of National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, Brig. Gen.l Mohammed Marwa (retd.), expressed this optimism in Abuja on Sunday during a symposium organised by Aspire Young Women Forum to commemorate the 2021 International Women’s Day. Asked by journalists whether she would see a woman succeeding Buhari in 2023, she said, “Right now, we have not come together yet to choose a woman that would succeed His Excellency, President Muhammadu Buhari. But why not? Anything can happen; anything is possible, but with time to come.” Marwa-Abubakar further said, “As 2023 draws a near, I view everything with gender-coloured lenses. I believe strongly that women will answer their names, play their parts and dare to challenge the status quo which is what the UN has directed us to do this time. “Politics is not cut and dry; it’s not something that you just fall into. You must educate yourself, especially for the fact that all politics are local. So, you must go to your locality, align yourself with a political party. “My political party, the APC, is right now, having its registration and revalidation sessions around Nigeria. So, you have to actually go and register with a political party and then begin to plan, learn and act. The National Coordinator, AYWF, Gift Johnbull, said she believed that nation building was a collective effort, adding that young people were actually key ingredients. She, however, bemoaned the issue of drug abuse amongst the youths, saying that 15 million persons, young women and youths, were plagued by the vice. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  