Tessy Igomu a Consultant in Podiatric Medicine, Dr. Yahaya Nauzo, says unnecessary limb amputation has led to increased mortality in patients living with diabetes. Podiatry is a branch of medicine devoted to foot and ankle surgery. Nauzo noted that effective management of leg ulcers by a podiatric doctor before it degenerates to the point of amputation can increase life expectancy of those living with the disease. Nauzo lamented that lack of specialists in the field has led to avoidable deaths, as the country doesn’t have enough podiatric doctors to manage the increasing number of those living with diabetes that develop leg ulcers. He blamed the situation on the inability of the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria to formally recognise podiatry as a branch of medicine. “Unfortunately, Nigeria is having an increase in cases of diabetes, with up to 10 per cent prevalent rate, when the global rate is about eight per cent. “So, we have a vulnerability to developing diabetes. Unfortunately, there are no specialists that can prevent diabetes complication of limb loss,”Nauzo lamented. According to the World health Organisation, diabetes is a major cause of blindness, kidney failure, heart attacks, stroke and lower limb amputation. The WHO noted that with early diagnosis and treatment, many of the harmful effects can be delayed or even avoided. Experts say that those with diabetes are at higher risk for many related health problems, including foot or leg amputation. In an interview with PUNCH Healthwise, Nauzo, who is based in Niger State, said mortality rate of patients that undergo amputation is very high in Nigeria, noting that about 50 per cent of patients that undergo amputation don’t live beyond three years. “Life expectancy of a person with  diabetes becomes reduced once there is an amputation. It’s an issue of life and death, and not just about losing the limb. “Usually, such patients are those that have had their limbs all their lives, and are used to moving about without crutches or wheelchairs. “Once mobility is removed from them, it puts a social stress on them, which leads to depression and, eventually, death,” he said. The president, Niger State Chapter of the Diabetes Association of Nigeria, revealed that one out of three  persons living with the condition eventually develops leg ulcer within 10 years or less of having the diseases, and that they eventually face amputation due to problems associated with their circulatory system. “Once enough blood doesn’t get to the feet, the skin will not be able to resist tear, and it can’t heal because there is not enough bloodflow to bring about the process of healing. “The nerves also begin to get damaged, making them not to know when they have a cut or blister, which degenerates over time,” he said. To continue reading this story and more, click here Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 