Despite the Lagos State Government announcement of the clearing of the Tin Can port access road,  fuel tankers and containerised vehicles have maintained their stance on the roads. The Senior Special Assistant to the Governor of Lagos State on New Media, Jubril Gawat, in a Twitter post on Thursday showed the taskforce team ridding the axis of fuel tankers. The tweet read, “The Lagos State Taskforce team on Apapa today started the Clearing of First and Second gate Tin Can port and environs. The Apapa Freedom is a continuous exercise till full sanity is restored.” However, a tour of the Tin Can port access road at 9am on Friday by our correspondent showed that the oil tankers had not yet been cleared. Our correspondent observed that fuel tankers were parked on both sides of the road to allow commuters seeking to access the Apapa-Oshodi manage the middle stretch of the road alone which was relatively free. On getting to Ports and Cargo, along Tin Can, our correspondent noted a huge blockade which caused a lot of traffic, forcing commuters to seek other alternatives. Our correspondent who visited the Ijora axis, up to the Marine Bridge down to Flour Mills noted a few container trucks parked at the time. They were parked at Leventis A.G, stretching close to the bridge. President of Council of Maritime Transport Unions and Associations, Leye Thompson, in a telephone interview with our correspondent said nine truckers had been arrested with fake e-call up forms. He said, “The e-call up system is a work in progress. We formed a task force to support the government to make sure the programme is successful. “Yesterday, we arrested nine trailers with forged ETO document and we nabbed them at Area B Police station. There is no way you can forge the document without the support of an insider. He added, “We believe there is someone inside there and that is why we are taking it up seriously. They are forging someone’s signature ontop the document. “When we interrogated the driver, he said someone is collecting N30,000 from them and signing it for them. By the time police start investigating them, we will determine who is collecting the N30,000 and decided how they will be exposed.” Meanwhile, truck drivers under the National Association of Road Transport Owners have accused Hitech Construction Company Ltd, a construction company rehabilitating the Apapa-Oshodi Expressway, as part of the impediments frustrating the electronic call-up system. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   