A former Publicity Secretary of the People Democratic Party in Edo State, Francis Iyasere, has urged the party leadership to accommodate every tendency within the party in appointing people into positions in the state. Iyasere made the appeal at a media briefing in Benin, on Sunday. He explained that doing so would take care of the interest of those who defected with Governor Godwin Obaseki from APC to PDP and those they met in the party. Iyasere, said, “I think harmonization is the best thing to do for both the PDP and those that came with Governor Obaseki from the APC. We need to sit down and talk because it wasn’t possible when they were joining the PDP to discuss the terms and conditions of staying together as a family. “But that should not cause problems in the party. It should not be seen to look like this person is for the governor and the other person is for the party. This will create division. If the governor feels that those that came with him were the ones that worked for the success of his second tenure, he will be making a mistake and if he sees it that those in PDP before he came to the party were the ones that worked for his success, that will also be a mistake. There should be a meeting point. “Looking at the three persons running the government now, two of them came with the governor to join the PDP. While those in the PDP are asking why can’t an original member of the party be considered for the position of Secretary to the State Government but it is understandable considering that the three of them have been the ones running the government before teaming up with the PDP. “However, every other appointment should be based on equity as this will bring down tension and also give a sense of belonging to those who just joined the party. “I am also saying that those that came with the governor should be given space in the executive position of the party from the ward to the state level as this will engender peace and trust among party members.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 