Armstrong Bakam, Bauchi No fewer than 10 people have been killed in a fatal crash involving a Gombe State Mass Transit Bus and a commercial motorcycle in Azare Local Government Area of Bauchi State. Twelve other people were also said to have been injured in the crash which occurred at about 3.00pm on Saturday on the Jama’are Road in Azare. The Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps, Bauchi State Sector Command, Yusuf Abdullahi, confirmed the accident to our correspondent in a telephone conversation on Saturday. READ ALSO: How I defeated UK, US, Chinese pupils, others at global maths competition –15-year-old Nigerian Abdullahi who said 22 people were involved in the crash explained that four people who were on the motorcycle were killed while the remaining six that died were part of the Hummer Bus which had 18 passengers. He said that the crash was caused by excess speeding, adding that the Azare Command of the FRSC was informed of the incident and immediately rushed for a rescue operation and took the casualties to the hospital. Abdullahi said, “There was a crash this afternoon on Jama’are road in Azare town (Katagum Local Government Area). The accident involved a vehicle belonging to the Gombe line and an okada carrying four people including the rider. “The okada man crossed the Toyota Hummer Bus and got knocked down. “Our men in Azare town were called and they rushed to the scene and rescued the victims to the hospital where a medical doctor confirmed that 10 people died, four on the motorcycle and six in the bus. “Twelve other people sustained varying degrees of injuries. The total number of people involved in the crash are 22, four on the motorcycle and 18 in the Hummer Bus.” He gave the details of those involved as 14 male adults, five female adults, one male child and two female children. The FRSC boss said that the corpses of the deceased were taken to the mortuary at the Federal Medical Center, Azare while the injured passengers were taken to the new Jama’are clinic for treatment. READ ALSO: I dropped out of medical school at 500L, ended up as cart pusher –Benue man He advised motorists to be cautious while on the road in order to reduce road traffic crashes that lead to loss of lives and properties. Abdullahi said, “My call to the public, particularly fleet operators to reduce speed and they should install speed limiting devices on their vehicles so that it will check drivers’ excesses which will reduce the loss of lives and properties.”