Kayode Oyero Gunmen, on Monday, killed at least four farmers in Konkobudo village, Idiyan axis, a border village located between Ibarapa North and Iwajowa Local Government Areas of Oyo State. It was gathered that the gunmen on motorcycles stormed the village before sunrise on Monday and shot the farmers who were asleep on their farmland. The criminals also hacked their victims before fleeing the village. ICYMI: It’s not too much to ask for security, Kukah tells FG A resident of the village, Ogunniyi Joel, said the remains of the victims have been taken away by men of the Nigeria Police Force in Iwajowa. “They came over night on about 10 motorbikes, shot the four farmers, hacked them and left. One of those killed is Sunday Okanlawon, a close relation. No one knows their identities whether they were herdsmen or not but the bodies of the farmers have been taken away by the police,” he told The PUNCH. Also, the Public Relations Officer of Igangan Development Advocates in Ibarapaland, Oguntowo Abideen, confirmed the incident to The PUNCH. READ ALSO: Controversy as Nigerian music label owner dies in Ghana, artiste arrested When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer in Oyo State, Olugbenga Fadeyi, confirmed the incident in a text message sent to our correspondent on Monday evening. Fadeyi wrote, “It was reliably gathered that unknown gunmen attacked and killed four men at Kokobido village Diko Ile via Ijio at about 0300 hrs of today 8/3/21. The DPO Ijio quickly moved into the scene and removed corpses to Fadok Hospital morgue for autopsy. Efforts intensified to arrest the perpetrators of the crime.” Monday’s incident occurred barely a day after the men of the Oodua Peoples Congress and other vigilante groups arrested and handed over notorious Fulani warlord Iskilu Wakili to the police. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Banks woo customers with new CBN ‘naira-4-dollar’ policy Before Wakili’s arrest, farmers and residents of Ayete, Kajola and other neighbouring villages in Ibarapaland lived in perpetual fear of the notorious warlord who has been accused of displacing them from their farms, kidnapping their rich men and raping their women.