Olalekan Adetayo, Friday Olokor and John Charles THE Federal Government on Monday launched the electronic registration platform to enable eligible Nigerians get vaccinated against the coronavirus pandemic. The Minister of Health, Dr. Osagie Ehanire, performed the launching in Abuja as Nigeria receives its first batch of 3.92 million doses of AstraZeneca COVID -19 vaccines on Tuesday (today). He said government would adopt the strategy deployed for the eradication of polio in the country in vaccinating eligible citizens against COVID-19. Ehanire expressed the hope that with the experience garnered by the National Primary Health Care Development Agency during vaccination and subsequently eradication of polio in the country, the agency would record another feat in its handling of COVID – 19. The PUNCH reported that under the traditional vaccination approach tagged: “TEACH”, an acronym for a 5-point strategy for vaccination developed by the vaccination implementing wing of the Federal Ministry of Health, Nigerians would have opportunity of undertaking electronic self registration for vaccination. The minister explained that TEACH stands for T: Traditional Vaccination Campaign Approach; E: Electronic Self-Registration by Eligible Nigerians; A: Assisted Electronic Registration of Eligible Nigerians; C: Concomitant Vaccination alongside Electronic Registration and H: House-to-House Electronic Registration. Ehanire said, “In less than 24 hours, the first batch of AstraZeneca vaccines will arrive in Nigeria from the COVAX facility and will be deployed to vaccinate, first our critical frontline healthcare workers, who are providing essential care especially for severe COVID-19 patients, next to those who are highest risk of severe disease from COVID-19 infection and down to 70 per cent of Nigerians. “The World Health Organisation has advised all countries to limit vaccination for now to persons above 18 years, until research and studies are completed on any possible effect on growing children or 18 years and below, except they have severe underlying illnesses where the benefits justify the risk. The minister warned Nigerians against anxiety in vaccination, explaining that “before the 4 million doses of AstraZeneca we are going to receive are expended, we shall be receive more vaccines; so, there should be no need for anxiety.” The Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer of NPHCDA, Dr Faisal Shuaib, reiterated that “the vaccination process will be in four phases, with frontline health workers being the priority group of eligible populations to receive the first doses of vaccines.” The next phase, he said, “will comprise older adults aged 50 years and above, and those with comorbidities aged 18 – 49 years of age.” The Country Representative of WHO, Walter Kazadi, thanked the Federal Government for the war it has so far waged against the coronavirus. NMA faults agency on COVID-19 registration Meanwhile, the President of the Nigerian Medical Association, Prof. Innocent Uja, on Monday said that though he was not aware of the idea of registration before vaccine, the procedure would violate the agreement of vaccinating frontline workers before any other person. Uja explained that there was agreement that frontline workers, aged ones from 60 and above, as well as people with hypertension and liver disease, then security people were expected to take the vaccine first. He further said that the National Primary Health Care Delivery Agency might have come out with the new procedure to test the acceptability of the vaccine. The NMA boss, however, said that such procedure might be hampered because of illiterates who did not know how to fill the form for registration. Uja said, “Then, it means it will violate the issue of frontliners first; maybe they want to see the depth of acceptability of the vaccine. Maybe it is not administration. “Honestly, I’m not aware that there should be registration online; it has not been communicated to me and I don’t know the process. “But if there is going to be registration, they should make it open for people to know. I’m not aware of registration before vaccine.” General vaccination may begin March 12 However, the National Primary Health Care Development Agency may begin administering COVID-19 vaccines on Nigerians from March 12. This will be preceded by the vaccination of frontline healthcare workers which may begin on Friday, March 5. The Chairman of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, Boss Mustapha, had on Saturday disclosed that about four million doses of Oxford-Astrazeneca vaccines from the COVAX facility were expected to arrive in Nigeria on Tuesday. NPHCDA begins online registration of Nigerians Also, ahead of the arrival of the vaccines in Nigeria, the NPHCDA on Monday commenced online registration of Nigerians interested in taking the vaccines. The agency disclosed this in a series of messages posted on its Twitter handle, @NphcdaNG, on Monday. In another message, the NPHCDA disclosed that a female healthcare professional, Osindeinde Abodede, emerged the first person to register for the vaccination. “Congratulations, Mrs. Osindeinde Ademilayo Abosede, a frontline health care professional. She is the first to register for the #COVID19 vaccination,” the message read. According to the test message received by the healthcare worker after completing her registration, which was attached to the tweet, she was booked to be vaccinated on March 12, 2021 between 10am and noon in Abuja. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 