Wale Oyewale, Ibadan A Federal High Court sitting in Abeokuta, Ogun State on Wednesday convicted Komolafe Olajide and Olaniyi Omobolaji over what it called fraudulent court conviction. The offence is contrary to Section 22(2) (b) (i), punishable under Section 22(2) (b) (iv) of the Cyber Crimes Prohibition, Prevention Act, 2015. READ ALSO: Police continue denial as Rivers gunmen abduct seven passengers The duo were convicted on a separate count charge of fraudulent impersonation preferred against them by the Ibadan Zonal Office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. Komolafe, 30, who claimed to be a Computer Science graduate from the Osun State University was arrested on January 22, 2021. In the course of the investigation, some incriminating documents were said to have been recovered from his email. Upon arraignment on an amended charge after a plea bargain agreement, he pleaded guilty. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Veteran broadcaster, Sadiq Daba, dies Justice Mohammed Abubakar thereafter convicted and sentenced Komolafe to six months imprisonment with an option of N300, 000 fine. Apart from his conviction, Komolafe was also ordered to restitute a total sum of N1,319,708.85k. The court equally ordered the forfeiture of his iPhone 12, Samsung S5 and Samsung Galaxy S6 mobile phones, one MacBook, one Toyota Corolla 2008 model, one Toyota Venza 2013 model, and one Toyota Camry 2013 model cars, including a 4 bedroom bungalow. [READ ALSO] EndSARS: Hoodlums stole $2m, N17m from palace, says Akiolu Justice Mohammed Abubakar convicted and sentenced Olaniyi to four months imprisonment with an option of N100, 000 fine. He was equally ordered to forfeit a Samsung A51mobile phone and a Lexus ES 330 car to the Federal Government. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 