Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna An auto accident along the Kaduna-Abuja Expressway on Monday claimed the lives of the Secretary-General of the Medical and Health Workers’ of Nigeria, Dr. Silas Adamu, wife, and daughter. It was learnt that Adamu, also the National President, Atyp Community Development Association was travelling alongside his wife and daughter on the Kaduna-Abuja highway when his car ran into a truck. A former Senator representing Kaduna Central in the 8th Assembly, Shehu Sani, described the demise of the activities as a great loss. Also, the Chairman of the Northern Speakers Forum and Speaker of the Kaduna State House of Assembly, Hon. Yusuf Zailani, said he received with rude shock, the death of Adamu, who was also President of Tsaunin Kura GRA Residents Association. The Speaker in a condolence message, signed by his Chief of Staff, Haruna Jafaru Sambo, and released to newsmen in the state capital on Tuesday, described Adamu’s death as “devastating.” He said, “We have lost a rare gem who has contributed tremendously to his community and our dear State. “This is coming just a few days to the final of a football competition that is uniting youths in the Kaduna metropolis, billed for Sunday, March 14 in Sabo GRA in my honour. “We will surely miss him greatly, but we are consoled by the fact that his works will live long after him. “I pray God grants him eternal rest and comforts his loved ones.” Zailani urged Sabo GRA, his immediate family, Atyap Community Development Association, to take solace in the fact that he lived a fulfilled life. On their part, residents of Sabo GRA under the aegis of The Tsaunin Kura GRA Residents Association (Sabo GRA) expressed shock over the death of its president, wife, and daughter. A statement signed by the association’s Public Relations Officer, Mr. Jacob Onjewu-Dickson on Tuesday, described Adamu as a man of peace. The statement read in part, “We are still shocked over the news of the death of our President General from a ghastly car accident along Kaduna-Abuja Highway on Monday, March 8, 2021. “It is even more saddening that his wife and daughter also lost their lives from the same accident. “He was not just a philanthropist, but a man committed to preaching peace to all around him. “In less than a year of his leadership of our community, he impacted several lives individually and all of us as a community.” ENDS…