Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa President of the Nigeria Labour Congress, Ayuba Wabba, has urged leaders and heads of governments to foster peace and unity in the interest of the nation, saying the utterances of some public office holders are worsening the challenge of insecurity in the country. Wabba said this when he led officials of the NLC on a courtesy visit to the Bayelsa State Governor, Douye Diri, at the Government House, Yenagoa, on Friday. He said that instead of public office holders to promote nationalism, they were busy stoking the fire of disunity, tribal and religious acrimony with their ethnic comments. READ ALSO: I was overwhelmed by job emails from US, UK after I carried placard –Job-seeking Delta graduate The NLC boss urged Diri and his likes to continue to play the vital role of preaching nationalism to engender peace in the land. Wabba said, “Because across the length and breadth of this country now, people that you think should be national in their approach are the people fanning the embers of division, be it tribal and religious, which is not helping and will not help our country. “I think that people like you (Diri) that have seen it all with broad mind should be able to speak on the issue of peace and unity, and importantly on how we can unite ourselves around the common enemy, which is the issue of insecurity that is threatening.” READ ALSO: How I defeated UK, US, Chinese pupils, others at global maths competition –15-year-old Nigerian In his remarks, Diri said that only justice and equity for every section of Nigeria would bring to an end the clamour for self-determination in the country. The Governor expressed concern over the level of insecurity in some parts of the country and described it as alarming. He said, “The current spate of insecurity in the country is alarming. And, of course, Nigeria has no reason to disintegrate. What we need are equity and justice. As long as we practice injustice, inequitable distribution of resources and if we create second class citizens, then there would be that call for disintegration of the country.” READ ALSO: I dropped out of medical school at 500L, ended up as cart pusher –Benue man