TWO aides of Ebonyi State Governor, David Umahi, have resigned their appointments and announced their defection to the opposition Peoples Democratic Party. Mr. Amaechi Oken, a Senior Technical Assistant to the Governor and Benjamin Obaji, a Technical Assistant, tendered their letters of resignation early this month. In their resignation letters dated March 1 and March 8, 2021, respectively, they cited non-payment of salaries as reason for quitting their jobs. It was gathered that on resignation, the duo joined the Peoples Democratic Party from the ruling All Progressives Congress. The PUNCH reports that no fewer than nine aides of Governor Umahi have resigned from their positions since the governor defected to the APC, in November. Oken’s resignation letter read in part, “…My worry is that while others were paid for January this year, I was not paid. The following month, February too, I have not received any allowances/stipends.’’ Similarly, Obaji in his letter said, “Sir, let it be noted that my resignation was not politically inclined, but purely on personal grounds, not minding the fact that I have not been paid for the past few months.” But the state government on Sunday said Oken and Obaji resigned over alleged incompetence, not because they were not paid their salaries. This was contained in a statement by a Technical Assistant to the Governor, Daphne Eteng. The statement read in part, “The attention of the Ministry of Information and State Orientation has been drawn to statement by the duo of Amaechi Oken and Benjamin Obaji… whereof the two appointees shamelessly and  disgraceful cited lack of payment of January and February 2021 salaries as their reason for joining a helpless party. “Let me say that the reasoning captured in their resignation depicts men of mean character, lacking in integrity and industry, but  blossoming in treachery and betrayal. “For the records, the duo of Amaechi Oken and Benjamin Obaji have been found wanting in diligence and competence in our monthly assessment exercise for  Technical Assistants and this non-performance continued till January, 2021 when government put their  services in abeyance for being unrepentantly unproductive. The EAs, STAs and TA are a creation of the Umahi adminstration, aimed at raising capacities and enhancing mentorship of the future leaders of the state through engaging them in technical support programmes of Ebonyi State Government. “The duo of Amaechi Oken and Benjamin Obaji failed woefully in passing the monthly assessment exercise and they were marked for probation with effect from January, 2021. This is the situation with others.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 