Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna Some bandits in separate attacks raided some communities in Zango-Kataf and Chikun local government areas of Kaduna State, killing at least 10 persons and injuring others. The PUNCH gathered that houses were razed and motorcycles stolen, while bags of ginger were burnt after the attacks on the people of Kurmin Gandu village in Zango-Kataf LGA. It was learnt that the bandits attacked one of the communities on Sunday night. The state Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr Samuel Aruwan, confirmed the incidents in a statement on Monday. He said, “In Zangon Kataf, Kurmin Gandu village was attacked by armed bandits, with five persons killed. They are Ishaya Aboi, Regina Ishaya, Goodluck Dauda, Joseph Adamu and Hassan Joseph “In addition, 10 houses, two motorcycles and 50 bags of ginger were set ablaze. Some dry season farmers lost water pumping machines and other valuables around the Zango urban general area. “Some survivors of the attack are recuperating in hospitals. Meanwhile, search and rescue operations are in progress, and information arising from this will be communicated to the public. “In addition, it took the military hours to contain what would have resulted in further violence in the general area.” Similarly, the commissioner said bandits attacked Sabon Gayan village in Chikun LGA and killed four persons. He identified the victims as Ashahabu Abubakar, Ado Rilwanu, Sabo Iliya and Mannaseh Danjuma. Meanwhile, he said troops of Operation Thunder Strike are combing identified criminal hideouts in the Sabon Gayan area following reports that some bandits sustained bullet wounds. He also said bandits attacked Ungwan Turai, also in Chikun LGA and killed one Ayuba Waziri. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  