Dayo Ojerinde Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has vowed to publicly mention the names of prominent Nigerians behind the gridlock situation in Apapa and environs. The Nigerian Ports Authority had on Saturday inaugurated a new call-up system designed to permanently address the movement of trailers in and out of the ports, and bring about traffic improvement along the corridor. READ ALSO: Suswam’s brother got threat letter before he was killed –Kinsmen However, contrary to expectation on the free flow of traffic following the commencement of electronic call-up system for port operations, the Oshodi-Apapa Expressway, had been on a total lockdown as fuel tankers and containerised vehicles parked indiscriminately along the road. Sanwo-Olu, according to a statement on Wednesday, spoke while inaugurating the newly reconfigured Lekki 1 and 2 Abraham Adesanya Roundabouts, Lekki. He said, “We will not stop at anything to ensure that anybody that tries to retract and take us back to where we are coming from on the gridlock on Apapa; we will do everything that we can to fight those people. “We will name and shame them, we will bring out their names, be it a corporate organisation, company, police officer; they will go and answer to the citizens of Nigeria and Lagos. We will bring them to the public court for them to see that we are serious. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: EFCC re-arraigns Justice Ofili-Ajumogobia for unlawful enrichment “We cannot condone the recklessness and carelessness that our citizens have gone through. My appeal is to others who have not signed on to this call-up system that we have embarked upon to do so. The governor was also quoted in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile, as saying the new electronic call-up system would bring lasting solutions to the gridlock on the Apapa corridor. “What we are seeing is the beginning of the lasting solution we have brought to Apapa. Our appeal is that we are not out of the problem completely yet. Our citizens can now see that a journey that took them three hours can, indeed, take between 15 and 20 minutes to commute. READ ALSO: Seven fake soldiers, 20 suspected cultists, others arrested in Delta “We have taken some troublesome people that are benefiting from the gridlock out of the way. Whatever they were earning illegally has been taken away from them. We know they will want to attempt to fight back. We will not stop at anything to ensure that anybody that tries to retract the progress or wants to take us back to gridlock in Apapa will be fought against,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 