Nike Popoola The private sector Coalition Against COVID-19 on Tuesday donated 260 medical oxygen gas cylinders and newly purchased incinerator to Yaba Isolation Centre in Lagos. It disclosed this in a statement on Tuesday titled ‘COVID-19: CACOVID donates incinerator, 260 Oxygen cylinder to LASG’. The statement said while speaking to the media at the commissioning of the incinerator and presentation of gas cylinder to the Lagos State Government, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Aliko Dangote Foundation, Zouera Youssoufou, said a total number of 260 gas cylinders of different sizes were donated to the Lagos State Government. Youssoufou, who doubles as an administrator of CACOVID, said CACOVID would do more to assist the LASG and other states across the country to ensure that the fight against the deadly coronavirus was finally won. She explained that an incineration was a waste treatment process that involved the combustion of organic substances contained in waste materials, adding this would eradicate the risk of the waste from the isolation centre in the community. She added that the incineration could be moved from one centre to another and it could serve the whole isolation centers in the state. The statement said the Commissioner for Health for Lagos State, Dr Akinola Abayomi, applauded the prompt intervention of the team at the time the state was in dire need of both oxygen and its cylinders. Abayomi noted that CACOVID had always come to the support of the government. On the demand for oxygen, he said, “Our demand has not exceeded our supply.” “The logistics behind oxygen is quite complex and sophisticated.” He said Lagos State was building its oxygen logistics and was about to commission a new oxygen plant in Gbagada. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    