Temiloluwa O’Peters Unverified COVID-19 vaccines and three major COVID-19 vaccines, Pfizer/BioNTech, AstraZeneca and Moderna, are being sold on the darknet between $250 and $1,200 with crypto currency. According to Kaspersky researchers, advertisements by sellers for these vaccines were found in 15 different marketplaces examined on the darknet. The majority of sellers came from France, Germany, the United Kingdom, and the United States of America, and the prices per dose ranged from $250 to $1,200, with an average cost of about $500. Kaspersky also revealed that communications were made via encrypted messaging apps like Wickr and Telegram, while payments were requested in the form of cryptocurrency, primarily Bitcoin. “Majority of the underground sellers have made between 100-500 transactions, but what is being purchased remains unclear,” the report said. Security expert at Kaspersky, Dmitry Galov, noted that darknet users were also selling vaccination records, pieces of paper that helped with free travel, and advised users to be cautious of deals related to the pandemic. “You can find just about anything on the darknet. So, it’s not surprising sellers there would attempt to capitalise on the vaccination campaign. Over the past year, there have been a whole host of scams exploiting the COVID topic, and many of them have been successful,” he said. Kaspersky experts recommend that users refrain from buying products on the darknet, including vaccine doses, as obtaining such doses was illegal and was probably a scam. It also advised people to examine advertisements related to COVID properly by looking carefully at the URLs of the sites, as well as paying attention to grammar and layout used, in case it was a matter of  phishing. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   