Elisha Olukanni is the Chief Executive Officer and Founder of Eduease, a pan-African e-education platform. He shares his entrepreneurial journey with TOBI AWORINDE What is your educational qualification and work history? I studied Agriculture at the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Kaduna State. All my life, I have been a volunteer for several organisations, notably the Association Internationale des Étudiants en Sciences Économiques et Commerciales— one of the largest youth-run organisations in the world. During the course of my AIESEC experience, I took several leadership roles in my university where I served as the local vice president of international operations. In 2018, after my National Youth Service Corps programme, I went on an exchange programme, where I worked as an intern at Songhai Farms, Porto Novo, Benin Republic. Besides understanding the concept of organic farming, plastic recycling, and biogas, the experience helped me in terms of connecting with people from diverse cultures. During my NYSC, I worked as the national officer of AIESEC in Nigeria and was directly in charge of expansions. I was also the vice president for the first international conference of the Middle East and Africa that was hosted in Nigeria, and that was actually one of my best volunteering experiences. I had the opportunity to host members of AIESEC International from Canada, including the AIESEC international president and delegates from 14 countries. After my NYSC, I got other paid opportunities but because I wanted to explore my passion and gain international experience, I decided to apply for a national role for AIESEC in Côté d’Ivoire, which happened to be my most challenging experience. It was really hard, because of the language barrier, as well as living and work condition. However, the good thing was that I learnt a new language, gained confidence, developed patience, understood resilience as a leader, helped the organisation grow to over 700 per cent, hosted interns from over 10 countries, won a couple of awards from the regional office and AIESEC international and impacted lives in over 30 conferences. I then relocated to Tanzania to start my first paid job, working as a business development manager with Ennovate Hub. When and how did you start up Eduease? The story behind the platform is very emotional for me. During my NYSC programme in Lagos, I was privileged to work as a Sustainable Development Goals facilitator and I noticed there was a serious struggle for many students, in terms of affording textbooks. I had a friend whose sister was visually impaired and could not read, which made learning very challenging for her. In 2018, I nurtured the idea of using technology to drive revolution for education in Africa, where everyone, including visually impaired students, could have access to affordable learning contents. That was what inspired the initiative. In August 2020, I got selected for a business incubator programme in Benin Republic by an AIESEC alumnus. How did you raise capital? I have been a volunteer all my life, which means I did not have capital. Building the type of technology we use is quite expensive and every day, I thought about how I would get the money to bring the dream to life. One day, I made a post on LinkedIn about my project and got connected with an IT engineer and co-founder of a tech company based in Belgium, Luxembourg and Ivory Coast. We now have a partnership with them and are currently building the platform which would be ready soon. But, we still need funding to get many things done. What were some of the challenges you faced when you initiated this platform? Building a tech start-up is super challenging, especially in this part of the world. I had so many challenges, such as getting the right team to work with and initially having no mentor. However, I am now being mentored by an expert based in the United States of America. There are times I get confused or run out of ideas. Funding is also very challenging. Understanding the publishing companies and how they operate, or even how to approach them to show them this technology and partner with them has been a challenge as well. From your experience, what are the reasons pupils fail exams? There are many reasons pupils fail exams and a major one is the fact that study materials are expensive, and some pupils don’t even read. Research suggests that online learning has been shown to increase the retention of information and takes less time, meaning the changes the COVID-19 pandemic have caused might be here to stay. Some research also shows that on the average, students retain 25 to 60 per cent more material when learning online, compared to only eight to 10 per cent in a classroom. This is mostly due to the students being able to learn faster online. E-learning requires 40 to 60 per cent less time to learn than in a traditional classroom setting because students can learn at their own pace. That is why we are focused on using technology to drive a revolution for education in Africa by digitalising learning materials in form of e-books and audio books. How did you develop the business model for the company and why was that the best option? It would operate on a subscription-based model. This would help students have access to textbooks based on how much time they need those books and save them over five times the cost of buying those books. I came about this model because of the impact we want to make in the lives of people and also based on our unique value proposition. Our mission is focused on using technology to provide improved access to affordable learning materials. Where do you see the initiative in the next five years? In the next five years, I see the initiative being a focal point for a revolution in terms of digital education in Africa. We also aim to work with publishing companies and schools all over the world. I also see it becoming a multi-million dollar company fully operational across sub-Saharan Africa. Do you think the Internet and social media are assets or liabilities to students? As of December 2020, Nigeria had more than 203 million Internet users. Second-ranked Egypt had 54.74 million users. This shows the potential of the Internet. In my experience and based on the survey I conducted, the Internet and social media are huge assets for students. The future of work is completely digital, so if we must create leaders of tomorrow to prepare them for the future of work, the solution is in leveraging on the Internet and e-learning to help students have access to learning content. How would you describe your management style? I am a team player. I don’t like to work alone because I believe in the power of a team. I love to give clear directions, connect with people I work with and stay hands-off. I am always available to offer guidance, expertise and help when needed. One major thing that makes me unique is the ability to overcome challenges and make things happen. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 