The Nigerian Ports Authority has designated 17 trucks parks as batching points for all trucks doing business at the Lagos ports. According to a statement signed by the Assistant General Manager, Corporate and Strategic Communications Division of the NPA, Ibrahim Nasiru, on Friday, the categorisation of the parks will deepen the electronic truck call-app. The authority designated FORU Truck Terminal, Sodik Garage, Anet Construction and Development Concept, Nigerian Army Properties Truck Park, Bomarah Investment Ltd, JOF Nigeria Ltd, Hog – Amazon Ltd and Spezial Bau Limited for Flatbeds / Export Containers. The capacity of the eight truck parks range from 500 to 100 with a combined capacity of 2,100 trucks. Similarly, Lilypond Extension and MPS Global Services (Koro Park) with combined capacities of 250 trucks were allocated as Fish Trucks and Reefer Containers respectively. HST Truck Park and Nigerian Breweries TruckYard with combined capacities of 450 trucks were allocated for multi-use. Arewa Truck Park and Starlink Global & Ideal Limited with combined capacities of 350 trucks were allocated for Arewa trucks and exports. Similarly, Lagos Ferry Services Company terminal, GMT terminal and Standard Flour Mills were allocated for Roll-on/roll-off barge operations. The NPA in the statement titled, ‘Electronic e-Call up-Eto, NPA designates truck parks,’ said transporters who did not use the approved truck parks based on the categorisation contained in the statement would be unable to access the ports. The authority said it was working with Nigerian Export Promotion Council to arrive at a more conducive environment for the operation of export cargo owners. It advised truckers to ensure they completed all documentation required by the Nigerian Customs Service, terminal operators and shipping lines before approaching the ports, noting that failure to complete the documentation would result in denial of access into the ports. The NPA also thanked Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, for his commitment to ending the truck congestion through enforcement. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   