Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna The pan-Northern socio-political organization, Arewa Consultative Forum, has asked the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to declare parts of the country ravaged by bandits and insurgents “a no flying zone” as done in Zamfara State. The President, following the kidnap and subsequent release of the 279 students of the Government Secondary School, Jangebe in Talata-Mafara Local Government Area by bandits, declared the state “a no flying zone” and banned all mining activities in the state. READ ALSO: Drama as Sowore’s supporter arrives court in cultural apparel The National Security Adviser to the President, Major General Mohammad Monguno, conveyed Buhari’s directives shortly after the National Security Council meeting held in Aso Villa, Abuja on Tuesday. But the National Chairman of the ACF, Chief Audu Ogbe, in a statement released to newsmen by the National Publicity Secretary of the Forum, Emmanuel Yawe, in Kaduna on Wednesday, said a similar ban be extended to other parts of the country ravaged by bandits and insurgents. According to the Chairman, the government should extend the flight ban to states like Benue, Taraba, and Borno where there are rumors that helicopters frequently drop arms for bandits and insurgents. READ ALSO: Saraki meets Obasanjo, says APC can’t handle Nigeria’s problems Ogbe also congratulated the government and people of Zamfara State on the safe release of the kidnapped schoolgirls in the state. The former Minister of Agriculture said, “Arewa Consultative Forum congratulates the people and government of Zamfara state on the safe release of the kidnapped schoolgirls from the Government Girls Secondary School in the state. “We are also happy with the federal government’s decision to ban flights in the state. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: FG bans flight over Zamfara, goes after watch list actors “We also plead with the government to extend the ban to other states like Benue, Taraba, Borno where there are rumors that helicopters frequently drop arms for bandits and insurgents operating in these states. “We believe that such an extended ban will curtail the operations of the criminals in these areas.”