Dennis Naku, Port Harcourt FORMER representative of the Rivers South-East District in the Senate, Senator Magnus Abe, has said, notwithstanding Friday’s Supreme Court judgement, the All Progressives Congress, was yet to fully address a lot of issues within the party. According to him, the crisis in the state chapter of the party was not about its structure but about impunity and injustice meted out to members by leaders. Addressing APC stakeholders in Port Harcourt, on Sunday, Abe said, “As law-abiding citizens of Nigeria, members of the party have accepted the outcome of the ruling of the Supreme Court but the main issues are yet to be resolved. “The content of their judgments held that the matters should not have been litigated in the first place but ought to have been resolved by the leadership of the party, political parties being voluntary associations. “It is important for Nigerians and the leadership of the APC, to remember, well and truly that the crisis that engulfed the party was not about party structure which was actually not in dispute. “It was rather, about the treatment meted out to party members who felt betrayed when the very reason for which they voluntarily joined the party in pursuit of justice, fairness and respect for their rights, were dismissed with impunity, by the leadership. “Party members, who paid monies for forms were not only denied their rights to participate in the congresses contrary to the Constitution of the party but were tear-gassed, and summarily excluded from all party activities and denied every privilege of membership. “It was this exclusion and treatment that led to the emergence of alternative structures within the party. “The battle to establish their rights and have the APC to acknowledge its wrong-doing led to the crises and to the Courts. The party, as all of us know paid dearly, almost fatally, for this indiscretion. The rest as they say, is history.” He instructed his supporters to respect the court judgement and wait to see whether the party leadership will take steps to right the wrong done to them. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  