The sum of N10.6bn has been budgeted for COVID-19 vaccine transportation and other logistics across the 36 states and 774 local government areas as well as the Federal Capital Territory, a document from the National Primary Health Care Development Agency has revealed. Kano, which has 44 local government areas, has the highest budget of N685m while Lagos, which is the epicentre of the pandemic, has N558.6m budget. About N476m was earmarked for Katsina State while N396m would be spent in Oyo State. N389m would be spent by Kaduna State while N380m was earmarked for Bauchi State. About N357m and N355m would be spent in Rivers and Jigawa states respectively while N308.7m would be spent in Anambra State. The budget estimates which have still not been released to the public, were presented by the Executive Director of the NPHCDA, Faisal Shuaib, on Thursday. In the document, it is stated that governors would be needed to make counterpart funding. Speaking on what governors could do for a smooth vaccination exercise, Shuaib told the governors at the meeting that they were to ensure and announce strict compliance with the prioritisation list for eligible populations. He added, “(They can) monitor the pre-implementation dashboard weekly; release counterpart funds for the implementation of COVID-19 vaccination; organise town hall meetings to support COVID-19 immunisation and publicly launch the introduction of COVID-19 vaccine. “On cold chain and logistics, (the governors can) add security fortification to the state and local government areas cold stores to avoid theft of vaccines/devices, and repair of cold chain equipment and cold rooms vandalised during #EndSARS crisis.” On the vaccine introductory activities that required state government funding, he identified procurement of personal protective equipment like face masks, sanitisers, etc.; transportation of vaccines/devices from states to local government areas and to vaccination sites, and the production and airing of jingles/public service announcements on the vaccination. He said the other activities that would require funding by the states were the procurement of Adverse Event Following Immunisation kits and media engagements and sensitisation on COVID-19 vaccine by the states, local government areas and wards. Following public criticisms generated, however, Shuaib stated on Saturday that he was not aware of the document being referenced by Saturday PUNCH. He said, “I’m hearing this from you for the first time. It doesn’t make any sense that on one hand, we have communicated clearly to Nigerians that CACOVID has provided a cargo plane that will help deliver the vaccines from Abuja to all states that have functional airports. “For those with no airport, there is a delivery van that will convene the vaccines from the airport to those states with no functional airport.” Shuaib said the process of vaccines distribution could not cost more than N1bn which CACOVID would handle. “The only cost we are going to incur is delivering the vaccines from airports to nearby states, clearly that cannot be N10bn. This cannot be even close to a billion.” He said CACOVID would also support the government in the training of health care workers, personnel logistics for vaccination and information and computer technology.   