Joseph Olaoluwa Josepdam Port Services, the Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria and Micura Services Limited have resolved the disagreement which led to the shut down of port operations for three days. It was gathered on Saturday that the trio met at about 12 noon on Friday as part of the efforts to resolve issues bothering on workers demands. Dockworkers from the MWUN had on Wednesday shut down Josepdam terminal at Tin Can Island Port over allegations of unfair treatment and poor welfare. The aggrieved staff who protested, carrying placards, called on the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency to probe the unfair treatment of workers by the concessionaire. Managing Director of the terminal, Ganiyu Kuteyi, in a phone interview said the issue of the strike action had to do with a stevedoring contractor who had monopolised the terminal activities and was worried about the expiration of his contract due Sunday. He said, “We are reviewing his contract and we are making some changes because we don’t want the monopoly of one person. That is the root of the issue which led to the protest.” Kuteyi however promised that a resolution would be reached regarding the mass action. A document sighted by our correspondent on Saturday showed that the matter had been resolved and all parties involved agreed to work together. The document was titled, ‘Resolution reached between the management of Josepdam Port Services Nigeria Limited, Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria and Micura Service Limited on February 26, 2021’. The document said the services of the stevedoring contractor attached to the terminal, Micura Services Limited, was still intact, adding that the contract agreement would soon be reviewed through the National Joint Industrial Council.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    