Olufemi Olaniyi, Ibadan The Chief Press Secretary to Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State , Taiwo Adisa, has said the All Progressives Congress is plotting to lure the governor to the party to avoid a heavy defeat in 2023 governorship poll. Adisa said the APC was aware that they could not raise any candidate that can match Makinde and that is the reason they what to lure him to their party by all means. READ ALSO: Nigerians’ll receive same Covid vaccine given to Buhari –FG The CPS, who said this in a statement on Monday said that the plot to lure Makinde to the APC did not come as a surprise, saying the party was fascinated by Makinde’s achievements despite the challenges present. The statement read in part, “One is not surprised that some elements in the APC are busy debating the possibility of Governor Makinde’s defection to the party. “The unprecedented achievements the governor has recorded in a very short time, especially despite the COVID-19 pandemic, has thoroughly beaten their imagination such that they have concluded it is impossible to raise a candidate to contest against him in 2023. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Ogun, Katsina, Anambra, seven govs stick to illegal LG caretaker panels “As a close watcher of the GSM magic, so to say, one cannot be surprised that the APC in Oyo State is really envious of the great attainments of Governor Makinde. “However, rather than claim that Makinde wants to defect to the APC, the truth the APC elements should tell the world is that their party is attempting to lure the performing governor in order to avert a woeful performance against him in 2023. “Contrary to the claims of the APC members that the governor has been soft against criticisms by its members, Governor Makinde has not bothered to respond to their baseless criticisms in recent times but has chosen to remain focused on service delivery. “We also completely reject the claims that his desire to join the APC informed the “soft approach” to the farmers/herders’ crisis. “Rather, the governor has remained on the side of the law and has always insisted that criminals, whichever tribe they belong, are our enemies and they must be fished out without undue ethnic profiling. “So, the best thing the APC could come up with right now is to imagine a Makinde as a standard-bearer so he could serve as a surreptitious redemption for the years of locust the party had inflicted on the people of Oyo State.”