The Borno, Kwara, and Plateau States have received doses of the coronavirus vaccine. The Deputy Governor of Borno, Alhaji Umar Kadafur, confirmed the arrival of 75,510 doses of the coronavirus vaccine in the state. Kadafur, who is also the Chairman of the state Taskforce on COVID-19, said the taskforce would meet to decide when to commence the vaccination. Also, Kwara State Government received a consignment of the COVID-19 Oxford AstraZeneca Vaccines from the Federal Government. The consignment arrived at Ilorin International Airport about 8.30 p.m. and was received by the state government’s delegation led by the Permanent Secretary of the state Ministry of Health, Dr Abubakar Ayinla. Addressing newsmen shortly after taking delivery of the vaccines, the Executive Secretary, State Primary Healthcare Development Agency, Dr Nusirat Elelu, said the state was excited to witness the delivery of the vaccines to support its fight against coronavirus. “We are certainly very excited to receive these vaccines and I wish to note that this is a historic day not just for Kwara residents but for the whole country. “This signifies that there is light at the end of the tunnel. “COVID-19 has ravaged the whole world in the last one year and I know that those that have lost their loved ones or are down with COVID-19 or just recovered from COVID-19 will know that this is certainly a historic day for us,” she said. The Plateau State Government also confirmed the receipt of 105, 600 doses of COVID-19 vaccines for the prevention of the spread of the virus in the state. The state Health Commissioner, Dr Lar Ndam, confirmed this while speaking with the News Agency of Nigeria in Pankshin. “We have just received delivery of 105, 600 doses of COVID-19 vaccines from the Federal Government through the Yakubu Gowon Airport. “The plane brought the vaccines about an hour ago and we have safely kept them in our cold rooms. “Our next step will be immediate onward distribution to our Cold Chains around the 17 local government areas. “Once we do that, we shall commence the vaccination exercise without further delay to safe our people from the ravaging virus,” he said.