Kayode Oyero Ex-Lagos State Governor, Akinwumi Ambode, was conspicuously absent as his successor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu; All Progressives Congress stalwart, Bola Tinubu; and other prominent politicians inaugurated the Agege-Pen Cinema Bridge on Friday. Also at the event include Deputy Governor Obafemi Hamzat; Lagos State House of Assembly Speaker, Mudashiru Obasa; monarchs, market leaders, and members of the Agege community. The 1.4 kilometre-long bridge was started by the Ambode administration in 2017 but could not be completed by the administration as the former governor lost his re-election bid in 2019 due to intra-party wrangling in the APC within the state. READ ALSO: You have few weeks to perform, Buhari tells new service chiefs Ambode, though still a member of the APC as he was seen revalidating his membership of the party recently, has not been seen at any state function with Sanwo-Olu or Tinubu, his hitherto political leader, since he exited government in May 2019. The discomfort suffered by motorists along the Agege, Abule-Egba and Iyana-Ipaja axes had moved the Ambode government to commence the project four years ago. The overpass ascends from Oba Ogunji Road and drops at the Oke Koto axis of Agege. The bridge also opens to the old Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway through Abule Egba. The bridge is expected to end the pain experienced by motorists plying Agege-Abule Egba and Agege-Iyana-Ipaja axes. Don’t copy vagabonds, destruction won’t help you, Tinubu tells youths Speaking at the event, Tinubu urged youths not to copy “vagabonds”, saying destruction won’t help them reach their destinations. The former Lagos State governor was making a veiled reference to the #EndSARS protests last October and the violence that trailed it. Many public and private assets were destroyed by rampaging hoodlums during the riot. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: EFCC re-looted 222 assets recovered from Maina, others ― Witness Tinubu said, “To all of you youths, if you see the kind of progress and economic resuscitation that is going on in this neighbourhood and Lagos State as a whole, you should be commended for cooperating with the contractor. “But that is not alone, we commend you for maintaining peace and don’t copy vagabonds, don’t emulate those who are in thuggery. There is no development if there is no peace, we must embrace peace to have development. “The government is doing so much to give you good foundation in education, that is an investment in your future…and that is giving you a tool to conquer poverty. “Destruction and destruction will not help you reach the destination that you aspire to reach.”