Tunde Oyekola, Ilorin Two siblings, Dele and Tunde Dada, were among the 37 suspects arrested for alleged Internet fraud by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission during a raid on their hideout in Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State, on Monday. A statement by the Head, Media and Publicity, Ilorin zonal office, EFCC, Ayodele Babatunde, said operatives on Monday raided the hideout and arrested the suspects. READ ALSO: UK approves work permit for Nigerians, other grad students The arrest, according to the statement, is sequel to a series of intelligence reports on the alleged criminal activities of some Internet fraudsters operating in the area. The statement read in part, “Officers of the commission had carried out a series of discreet surveillance on the nature of activities going on in the area, which established that the location where the suspects were rounded up, is a hideout for fraudsters. “Two of the suspects arrested are brothers of the same parent – Dele and Tunde Dada. Others include Segun Kazeem, Adepoju Pelumi, Jejelowo Segun, David Ojo, Sodiq Adetoye, Opeyemi Akiniyi, Michael Ekundayo, Victor Olujobi, Damilola Akinluyi and Attamah Hyauth. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Another governor flirts with a corrupted idiom “Others are Ade Ajayi Tobi, Oyewola Adewunmi, Emmanuel Bello, Lekan Oyewole, Oso Opeyemi, Oluwaseun Temitope Ezekiel, Akinrodolu Sunday, Emmanuel Attah, Sunday Adedoyin, George Tobi, Odunayo Daramola, Olubola Olushola Sunday, Temitope Ayomide, Faboro John Oluwagbotemi, Ajibade Timilehin Emmanuel and Momoh Ranti. “Also arrested are Ajibade Seyi, Eniola Abdulbasit, Oreoluwa Ayuba, Christopher Olutobiloba, Samuel Ajayi, Abiodun Akeem, Tunde Orija, Ajila Ayodeji and Oyeleke Kehinde. “The raid led to the confiscation of scores of vehicles, laptops, sophisticated phones and other items. READ ALSO: NDLEA arrests notorious trafficker, stops US, China, UAE-bound parcels “The suspects are currently being profiled to determine their culpability in the alleged crime and will be charged as soon as investigations are completed.”    ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 