Dayo Ojerinde Nigerian celebrities have joined the global line-up of stars in the ‘Draw The Line’ campaign against malaria. According to a statement on Wednesday, a new youth-focused creative campaign powered by African stars had been unveiled to ‘draw the line’ against malaria. “Against the backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic, the campaign is championed by a global coalition of change-makers and culture influencers inspiring Africa’s youths to demand political action from their leaders to end malaria within a generation. “Popular faces featured in the campaign include, Nigerian actress, Omotola Jalade-Ekeinde; musician, Laolu Sebanjo; Nigerian-American actress, Osas Ighodaro; filmmaker and music director, Meji Alabi. “Combining an interactive digital platform with a powerful campaign film, young people across the continent are charged to visit the zero malaria website and add a personal line of Muundo art to a growing piece of crowdsourced artwork which represents a visual call to action to world leaders. “The artwork will be shared at the Kigali Summit on Malaria and Neglected Tropical Diseases, which will hold on the eve of the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in Rwanda on June 24. The summit is a milestone moment in the malaria fight and enabler of game-changing political decisions including delivering the commitment to halve malaria across the Commonwealth by 2023,” the statement partly reads. The Chief Executive Officer of RBM Partnership to End Malaria, Dr Abdourahmane Diallo, said there was the need to renew the urgency in the fight against malaria. He said, “Long-time investments in the malaria fight continue to pay dividends and are pulling double duty during the pandemic. By strengthening our health care systems, we can better respond to both new and existing health threats. Today, we must all draw the line against malaria and recommit to achieving zero malaria in Africa and around the world. “The ‘Draw The Line Against Malaria campaign,’ which supports the growing Zero Malaria Starts with ‘Me movement,’ reflects the human story of malaria and the devastating impact it has on education, employment, health, and prospects of Africa’s growing young population.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    