The Lagos State Government has announced the closure of the Falomo Bridge for repair works following the Federal Government approval for six weeks from Sunday, 14th March to Friday 30th April, 2021. In a statement released by the state’s Ministry of Transportation on Friday, the Commissioner, Dr Frederic Oladeinde, stated that the repair works would run on a 24-hour shift in phases to enable the contractor complete repairs within the estimated set time and minimise the expected inconveniences for road users. He further explained that the first stage of the repairs would cover the Victoria Island bound lane of the bridge which will be closed to traffic. According to him, motorists heading towards Victoria Island will be diverted to the Ikoyi bound lanes to create a counter-flow. The commissioner also said while the Ikoyi bound lane would be closed down for the second stage of rehabilitation works, in a similar fashion, motorists will be diverted to other lanes. He assured that sufficient signage would be put up to guide motorists as well as traffic management personnel deployed to help motorists navigate their ways home with ease. Similarly, the ministry on Friday announced the closure of the Abule Nla and Brewery level crossings for construction on the rail track from 9:30pm on Friday to 6am on Saturday. Also, the state government said it would close down Badia Junction and Gaskiya level crossings on the night of Sunday, March 14 and Monday, March 15 from 9:30pm to 6am respectively. The transportation commissioner expressed the government’s readiness to reconfigure the Ikorodu roundabout in its bid to unlock traffic gridlock, checkmate the activities of roadside traders and other impediments He explained the need to fast-track infrastructural development that would be commensurate with the growth rate of the area and in line with the state transport master plan. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   