’Femi Asu Nigeria LNG Limited announced on Wednesday that it won the ‘Gas Company of the Year Award’ at the recently concluded Nigerian Gas Association Biennial International Conference and Awards Event. NLNG said in a statement that it was recognised for outstanding contributions to the gas industry in Nigeria. It said this came on the heels of the World LNG Summit and Awards in December 2020, where the company was adjudged to be one of the two organisations that had made most outstanding contributions to the industry globally. Receiving the award on behalf of the company virtually, the General Manager, External Relations and Sustainable Development, Mrs Eyono Fatayi-Williams, said the award was a clear validation of the growing relevance and importance of natural gas as a game-changer in Nigeria. She said, “It is indeed the Decade of Gas. Gas is undoubtedly the future. Gas is cleaner, cheaper, more abundant, and the smartest partner to renewables for sustainable development. Our success story is a testament to what is possible in this Decade of Gas. “This is time for Nigeria to diversify its economy from oil and to fly on the wings of gas. Our Train 7 will provide about $12bn in foreign direct investment to Nigeria and over 12,000 jobs at the peak of construction. “Still, even at that, our ambition is to ramp up to Trains 8, 9, 10 and more, with the support of our shareholders and the Federal Government. “The transformative effect of this increased use of our nation’s abundant gas reserves on its economy will be wholly positive and thoroughly beneficial.” According to her, the company firmly believes that gas development will translate to more jobs, cleaner and cheaper energy, more industries, more food through fertilisers, cheaper transportation, and a much better quality of life for all Nigerians. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  