GOVERNOR Babajide Sanwo-Olu inadvertently gave an insight into the corruption and racketeering within the Lagos ports and its environs when he recently threatened to expose those profiting from the gridlock and undermining the success of the reforms there. The Lagos State governor vowed to name and shame those involved, whether corporate organisations or police officers if they did not turn over a new leaf. While his fervour is noted, it must be said that this is certainly not enough deterrence. In a desperate bid to end the gridlock and restore sanity to Apapa, the Nigerian Ports Authority had on February 27 launched the electronic call-up system known as Eto, which was designed for the management of truck movement and access to and from the Lagos Ports Complex and the Tin Can Island Ports. Based on the new system, truck owners and drivers were required to download the Eto App on their phones. Also, all trucks doing business at the ports were expected to park at the approved parks until they are called up into the ports through the app, which is responsible for the scheduling, entry and exit of all trucks into the ports. Shipping companies were informed that empty containers could only be returned to the ports through the approved holding bays of shipping companies using the app. The Lagos State Traffic Management Authority and the Nigeria Police were tasked with enforcing compliance. In its first few days, Lagos residents heaved a sigh of relief, commending the NPA and the state government for finally ridding the roads of the nightmare that has impacted negatively on their lives and livelihoods for years. However, less than a week after sanity was restored, errant truck drivers returned to the roads, parking indiscriminately and preventing the flow of traffic with impunity. According to the Lagos State Government, at least 200 trucks have been impounded and the owners made to pay hefty fines before their vehicles were returned to them. The Managing Director of the NPA, Hadiza Bala-Usman, stated that some truck drivers were caught with counterfeit e-call-up slips in order to by-pass security. This should therefore not be treated as an ordinary contravention of traffic law but as economic sabotage. Corruption has for years undermined every attempt to enforce reforms at the ports. According to the Association of Maritime Truck Owners, the security agents would not grant them access to the ports unless they paid bribes of between N70,000 and N200,000. A federal lawmaker, Olusola Fatoba, also revealed that the bribe is as high as N300,000 in some instances. He alleged that law enforcement agents that were supposed to maintain law and order at the ports had formed a cartel with port officials, extorting money from the transporters. With no fewer than 2,000 trucks gaining access to the ports daily, almost N400m entered into private pockets every day. With such bribes being blocked by the new reforms, both the NPA and the LASG ought to have envisaged the current attempt to frustrate the latest reforms and should have prepared a contingency plan. The government must therefore go beyond exposing members of the cartel profiting from the gridlock; they should arrest and prosecute them for economic sabotage. The negative effects of the gridlock on the economy are manifold. The President, Dangote Group, Aliko Dangote, said in 2019 that his two companies located within the Lagos ports, lost over N25bn between 2017 and 2018 because of gridlock around the ports. Sadly, the implication of an increase in the cost of doing business through the avoidable gridlock and bribes is a concomitant rise in the prices of goods and a reduced purchasing power, thereby deepening poverty. For decades, Nigerians have been on the receiving end of the government’s failure to bring the cabals and cartels to book. This has been the case in the fuel subsidy scam, government procurement and contract scams and many more. Both the federal and state governments should use those frustrating the port reforms as scapegoats. The point must be made that no individual or organisation is more powerful than a people who are desperately in need of development. In the meantime, the Federal Government should ensure that other aspects of the ports reforms are hastened. According to the NPA, about 1.6 million 20-feet Equivalent Units of containers came into Nigeria in 2020 and all of them had to be inspected manually by multiple agencies, which also contributed to the delay in clearing goods from the ports. The modern scanners needed by the Nigeria Customs Service have also not been delivered despite government’s approval since 2018. Such bureaucratic bottlenecks are antithetical to reforms. According to the NPA, the agencies working at the ports have ignored a 2017 executive order on the promotion of transparency and efficiency in the business environment, which sought to ensure 24-hour operations at the ports and banned touting. There is a more galling aspect to the crisis. The government and its Presidential Council on the Ease of Doing Business headed by Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo have done nothing to sanction errant agencies despite the infractions. A government that cannot enforce discipline within its ranks cannot spearhead reforms. The Federal Government should speed up the rail construction around the ports to ensure easy movement of cargoes, while the god-forsaken roads leading to the ports are repaired quickly. Development never comes easy, but the price of underdevelopment is far worse. The government should ensure that other ports are upgraded and their operations decentralised to improve the ease of doing business and boost economic growth. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  