Small Scale Women Farmers Organisation in Nigeria, Gombe State chapter, on Thursday tasked the state government on timely release of budgeted funds to mitigate food crisis. SWOFON spoke during an advocacy visit by Public Financing for Agriculture budget committee of the organisation and Hope Foundation for the Lonely with support from ActionAid Nigeria to Gombe State Assembly. According to the leader of the delegation, Fadimatu Usman, the looming food crisis could be averted through timely release of budgeted funds. Usman said, “We want to advocate for early disbursement of the N35m budget line in 2021 approved for the support of women smallholders. “We urge for your prompt directives to work out modalities for the release to avoid the looming food crisis we are facing.” She further revealed that women farmers constitute majority of food producers in the country, adding that with more backing, women will help the country attain food sufficiency. “We are here to advocate for support in terms of laws at the legislative level. We want them to be part of us to support us. “We the small scale women farmers can safely say we are the feeders of the Federation. So we want their consideration. “Once there is fund allocated to our group, we hope to secure their backing so that government will release budgeted funds to us so that we can put it into actual use to boost our women capacity to feed the state and Nigeria. Women farmers have done a lot out of scarce resources; what is needed is government support to boost our morale,” she added. On her part,  Clerk of the House, Ruqayat Jalo, hailed the group’s visit, stressing that as an administrator, she could only advise the House. Jalo said the little provided should be well utilised, adding that it would boost the interest of government to do more. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  