Dennis Naku and Friday Olokor Two chieftains of the All Progressives Congress in Rivers State, Igo Aguma and Livingstone Nweche, have resigned their membership of the party. Their decision came after the Supreme Court on Friday upheld the decision of the Court of Appeal, which nullified Aguma’s emergence as the acting Chairman of the APC in the state. The Supreme Court judgment favoured Isaac Ogbobula, who belongs to the Rotimi Amaechi camp of Rivers APC. But announcing his exit from the APC on Friday, in  a statement he personally signed, Aguma said, “It is now clear that it is not within the purview of the court to protect the rights and privileges of members of a political party, in this case, the APC. It is the APC that should protect the rights of her members but has failed to do so. “I cannot continue to be a member of a political party that endangers and does not give any form of protection to the rights of its members and has no respect whatsoever for its own constitution but chooses to be run against democratic principles for self-destructive purposes. “Therefore, I announce my exit from the All Progressives Congress immediately. To God be the glory.” On his part, Nwuche, in a separate statement, said, “I respect the Supreme Court judgment, which today dismissed the appeal challenging the Court of Appeal decision, which overturned the high court judgment that declared Rt. Hon.  Igo Aguma the acting Chairman of APC in Rivers State. “It has been a long battle for internal democracy in the Rivers State APC. However, the status quo is unsafe for my political struggle and future which I must sustain for the good of my fatherland. “I cannot continue to be a member of a political party where asking questions is a death and a party that sabotages and trades mindlessly and selfishly with the rights of its members. “Therefore, I announce my exit from the All Progressives Congress immediately. This is my decision.” A five-man panel of the Supreme Court, led by Justice Amina Augie, had in a unanimous judgment dismissed Aguma’s appeal. The apex court held that intra-party affairs are the business of the party and not that of the court. Reacting to the judgment, which favoured Ogbula as the authentic caretaker committee chairman of the APC in Rivers State, the spokesman for the party, Chief Ogbonna Nwuke, described it as commendable. He said, “Today, the Supreme Court has finally ended all arguments relating to who the authentic chairman of the Rivers Caretaker Committee is. “It is now clear that Rt. Hon. Igo Aguma was meddlesome and had no right, under whatever guise, to challenge the right of the party to choose leaders of its caretaker committee. “Based on the ruling, Isaac Ogbobula is the authentic chairman. Now that the obstacles placed on the way of the Rivers APC have been removed, we want to thank the Justices of the Supreme Court for their wisdom and upright decision. “The Rivers people are elated by the ruling of the apex court. The decision has lifted the veil and put those behind the plan to destabilise the APC to shame. We thank our leader, Rt. Hon Rotimi Amaechi, for his sterling leadership qualities and commend all those who fought on the side of truth. We cannot thank them enough. “Now that the storm is over, we wish to state categorically that our doors are open to receive all who believe in the mission of the APC.” Nwuke stressed that the party door would not be shut “in the faces of all those who embraced the Magnus Abe-led team, especially if they are willing to be team players.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   