Page International Financial Services Limited has become an approved employer of the Association of Certified Chartered Accountants in professional development and trainee development. The ACCA approved employer status is awarded to organisations that offer professional development opportunities to their finance professionals and that demonstrate superior professional ethics, according to a statement titled, ‘Page Financials becomes one of 76 ACCA-approved employers in Nigeria,’ made available to our correspondent on Sunday. The statement said the assigned status indicates that professionals from financial departments get supported during their professional development and training. Chief Executive Officer of Page Financials, Mr Segun Akintemi, while receiving the membership certificates, said, “As a leading financial institution in Nigeria, human capital development is a key component of our corporate growth strategy. “With hundreds of hours of learning and development delivered yearly, this certification recognises Page Financials’ efforts in investing in people development and growth that translates into company’s development and growth.” Head, ACCA Nigeria, Mr Thomas Isibor, said, “Staying relevant to the market is very important in an economy like Nigeria. “ACCA believes in continuous development and it will support Page’s capacity building of its employees and developing the human resource skills needed for flexible learning experience.” The programme, according to the statement, will create collaboration opportunities between the firm and the ACCA to foster growth and development opportunities for the institution’s employees, including access to certification courses to further up-skill employees and advance their financial careers. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 