Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna STAKEHOLDERS of the Peoples Democratic Party in Zango-Kataf Local Government Area, Kaduna State, on Tuesday threatened to sue the State Independent Electoral Commission over the proposed May 15, 2021 local government election. The threat was contained in a communiqué signed by Dr John Ayuba and Yusuf Kanitiok, the group’s chairman and secretary respectively. They argued that the notice issued by the “Overseer” of the Kaduna SIECOM, for the conduct of local council election was unconstitutional. The seven-point-communiqué read in part, “In as much as the party is willing and ready to participate in the forthcoming local government elections, we demand for a strict adherence to the relevant laws of the state and country in all the processes and conduct of the elections. “After observing many violations of the law by the ‘Overseer’ of the State Independent Elections Commission, we, therefore, declare our total support for the decision of the party leadership at the state to challenge in court, the Notice of the Year 2021 Local Government Council Elections in Kaduna State announced by the ‘Overseer’ of the Kaduna State Independent Electoral Commission, purportedly in consonance with section 25(1) of Kaduna State Independent Electoral Commission Law No. 2, 2018, which is still the subsisting law. “According to Section 25 (1), ‘The Commission shall not later than ninety days (90) days before the day appointed for holding of an election under this law publish a notice in each local government area. “However, a careful examination of the of the notice of election issued on 15th February, 2021 and the day appointed for holding the election, that is 15th May, 2021, is 89 days, not 90 days, as the ‘Overseer’ is trying to hoodwink the people of Kaduna State into believing. Therefore, the notice contravenes the provisions of the law, and therefore, null and void.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   