Armstrong Bakam, Bauchi The North-East Governors’ Forum has said the Federal Government is not showing commitment to ending the insurgency ravaging the region. It said it was making plans to form a regional security outfit to help in tackling the challenges. The Chairman of the forum and Governor of Borno State, Professor Babagana Zulum, disclosed this in his speech at the opening ceremony of the 4th North-East Governors’ Forum at the Government House, Bauchi, on Wednesday. The PUNCH reports that the host governor, Bala Mohammed, was present with his counterparts in Gombe, Inuwa Yahaya; Adamawa, Umaru Fintiri; and Borno, Babagana Zulum. Yobe State Governor, Mai Mala Buni, was represented by his deputy, Idi Gubana, while that of Taraba State, Darius Ishaku, was also represented by his deputy, Haruna Manu. Zulum said, “I want to use this opportunity to call on the Federal Government to seek support from our neighbouring countries, especially the Republic of Chad, Cameroon and Niger, with a view to providing joint action that will lead to the end of this crisis. “Furthermore, the Federal Government has to look at the possibility of involving the mercenaries because it seems the commitment is not there. Therefore, for us to end this insurgency, we must be committed enough, we must bring in external support and hire mercenaries to end this insurgency. “On our part, in addition to the logical, logistical and financial support we have been rendering to the armed forces in their fight against general insecurity in the sub-region, we should also look into the possibility of forming a security outfit within the ambit of constitutional precedence and operational feasibility as has been done in other parts of the country.” He said the civilian joint task force in the north-eastern states would form the basis for the regional security outfit, adding that in doing so, they must consult with the military and the Nigeria Police Force. In his welcome address, Bauchi State Governor, Mohammed, said the deteriorating security situation in the country, particularly in the North-East, showed that they had failed. He expressed worry about the recent escalation of insecurity in the region, saying state governments must accept the reality of the situation and address it headlong. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   