In the past 20 years, there has been no significant improvement in the number of firms that are quoted on the Nigerian capital market, the Securities and Exchange Commission has said. It said this while analysing the Nigerian capital market in its report on Financing Nigeria’s Budget and Infrastructure Deficits through the Capital Market, which was obtained in Abuja on Friday. In an analysis of the relative size of the country’s capital market, the SEC, however, stated that despite the insignificance in the number of listed firms, the market had recorded some periods of appreciable capitalisation. The commission said, “(The) number of listed firms have not significantly improved in 20 years. But there are periods of increased capitalisation, for example, currently. “(This is) coming largely from the ability to attract larger firms, for example, Dangote, MTN, etc, or increase in valuation.” It stated that the Nigerian Stock Exchange was still small when matched against its peers across the globe. This, it said, was due to less number of listings on the market, as it stressed that the capital market required growth. The SEC said, “(When) compared to many markets we may consider as peers or targets, Nigeria market is still relatively small. Low market capitalisation ratio and few listing.” The commission called for more investors to participate in the market. It said, “The current size of the capital market is still low compared to peers and other target markets. Investors base is equally low. “(There is) need to increase participation and give citizens access to own financial assets. Government needs to have a deliberate policy to leverage and grow the capital market going forward.” The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, had urged capital marketer operators to consider retail investments and give opportunity to ordinary Nigerians to invest in the capital market in an easy and simple way. The commission, however, noted that the capital market had recorded some milestones over the years. It said the capital market had come a long way as it had recorded growth in products and platforms and had improved its regulatory framework. The report stated that there had been deliberate government policies which had contributed to past growth in indigenisation, privatisation, banking and insurance consolidation. It said when there were no deliberate government policies, the market and the regulator had made some progress. The SEC said the implementation of the Capital Market Master Plan and other market initiatives had taken place, adding that there had been innovations by various exchanges. It further stated that the Nigerian capital market had seen improvement in operating standards by operators and technology use. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   