Segun Adewole The Governor of Oyo State, Seyi Makinde, has promised that his administration will ensure that there is no miscarriage of justice concerning the arrest of some members of the Oodua Peoples Congress and Fulani warlord Iskilu Wakili in Kajola Area of Ibarapa North Local Government Area of the state. Makinde who spoke in Ibadan on Monday urged residents to remain calm and refrain from ethnic profiling, saying the Commissioner of Police, Oyo State Command, CP Ngozi Onadeko, has already given the assurance that a thorough investigation would be launched into the security situation. READ ALSO: Ogun, Katsina, Anambra, seven govs stick to illegal LG caretaker panels He also promised to ensure that only those found wanting or those who have broken the law would be dealt with in accordance with the law of the land. This is contained in a statement issued by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Mr Taiwo Adisa. Adisa quoted Makinde: “Let me also talk about the issue of security, which is also germane. I am aware of what is going on at Kajola in Ibarapa North Local Government Area of Oyo State. “I will like to use this opportunity to tell our people that the government is doing everything within its power to ensure that there is no miscarriage of justice. Anyone that is found wanting or has broken the law, irrespective of their ethnic background or religion, would be dealt with in accordance with the law of the land. READ ALSO: Gumi, opinion merchants must stop divisive comments – Army “People should not go into overdrive. I have asked the Commissioner of Police to see me today and I have been given the assurance that they will do a thorough investigation into the security situation in the area. “I also want to appeal to our people to be calm and refrain from ethnic profiling. Let us have trust in the ability and capacity of the people saddled with the responsibility of maintaining law and order within our state. It is the government that we have put in place and it will continue to work in the interest of the people of the state.” READ ALSO: Controversy as police recover lovers’ corpses from Lagos hotel