Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa The Governor of Bayelsa State, Mr Douye Diri, has rejected the 2.5 per cent revenue proposed for host communities in the Petroleum Industry Bill and demanded 10 per cent to assuage the people for bearing the harsh impacts of oil exploration and exploitation in the Niger Delta. Diri, who spoke during a town hall meeting on the PIB with members of the National Assembly and stakeholders in Yenagoa, the state capital, on Tuesday, described the 2.5 per cent as grossly inadequate and unacceptable to the people of the region. He argued that if National Assembly members had seen first-hand the level of environmental degradation and its attendant effects on the people, they would not hesitate to increase the revenue from 10 per cent. READ ALSO: EFCC deepens Tinubu probe, demands asset declaration form from CCB Diri stressed in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Daniel Alabrah, that the PIB was critical in addressing issues such as unemployment, lack of transparency in the oil and gas sector, militarisation of oil production, skills acquisition, and marginalisation of oil-producing states. The governor, who insisted that the whole oil and gas industry was shrouded in secrecy, said, “I restate our earlier submission that the 2.5 per cent proposed for the oil-producing communities is grossly inadequate and unacceptable to us as a people. In our proposal to you, we asked for 10 per cent for the host communities.  READ ALSO: Saraki meets Obasanjo, says APC can’t handle Nigeria’s problems “When you visit some of the sites where oil is being explored; that bring multi-million dollars to this country, you will even agree with me that we should increase it further from 10 per cent.” Decrying the undue delay in the passage and implementation of the bill for about 12 years, Diri urged members of the National Assembly to ensure its passage to engender peace and development in the region and the country as a whole. He further contended that “If this bill had been passed, billions of naira used in safeguarding oil facilities would have been deployed for development purposes.” He expressed regrets that oil-producing communities that bear the brunt of oil production were given no consideration while multinational oil companies and the federal government were given more attention in the bill, adding that such a situation was not in the interest of the people. In his speech, Deputy Chairman, House Ad Hoc Committee on Petroleum Industry Bill, Mr Victor Nwokolo, said the PIB was from the executive arm of government aimed at reforming the oil and gas industry, promising that they would work hard to ensure passage of the bill before the end of May this year. READ ALSO: I was made to swear on oath by Orji Kalu’s brother – Abaribe Giving a summary of the legal framework in the PIB, Nwokolo noted that it would foster sustainable prosperity in host communities. In his presentation, the chairman of the state Traditional Rulers Council, represented by the monarch of Ekpetiama Clan, King Bubaraye Dakolo, recommended that the bill takes into consideration environmental pollution, particularly gas flaring, and ensure inclusion of rights of host communities. A spokesman for the Ijaw Youth Council, Ebilade Ekerefe, said the life expectancy of the Niger Delta people had significantly reduced as a result of the effects of gas flaring and yet the region contributes a great deal to the economic survival of the country. Members of the NASS visited an oil spill site at Ikarama community in the Yenagoa Local Government Area of the state, shortly after the meeting.