John Alechenu, Abuja The Peoples Democratic Party and former President, Goodluck Jonathan, have eulogized ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo for his patriotism and support for Nigeria’s survival, unity and progress. The PDP and Jonathan said this in separate statements to celebrate Obasanjo, as he attains the age of 84. In a statement titled, “At 84, PDP Salutes Obasanjo, Extols His Patriotism,” signed by the National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Kola Olobondiyan, in Abuja, on Friday, the PDP described Obasanjo as a global figure whose contributions cannot be easily forgotten. READ ALSO: #EndSARS: Destruction won’t help Lagos, Tinubu tells youths It read in part, “The PDP describes President Obasanjo as a patriotic leader, global figure and exceptionally energetic administrator, who has made immeasurable contributions, both as a military leader and as democratically elected President, for the survival, unity, stability and development of our dear nation. “As a military leader, Chief Obasanjo fought for the unity of our dear nation during her turbulent hours as well as making immense personal sacrifices for the return of democratic rule with the birthing of the Second Republic in 1979. “Twenty years after, as a democratically elected President, on the platform of our great party, the PDP, Chief Obasanjo further united our nation with the entrenchment of democratic values of all-inclusiveness, rule of law, respect for the constitution, regard for the sensibilities of Nigerians as a people, transparency in governance and establishment of various institutions for good governance in all critical sectors of national life. “Nigerians celebrate President Obasanjo for running a visionary administration, leading to the revamping of our productive sectors, settling of our foreign debts, turning our nation into an international investment destination and elevating her from a pariah and debtor nation to becoming one of the fastest-growing economies of the world under his watch. READ ALSO: Nigeria needs solid institutions, not strong men, says Ozekhome “Our party extols President Obasanjo’s undying sense of patriotism and love for our dear nation for which he has remained fearlessly active in his counsels, directions, admonitions and firm stance against injustice and impunity in the polity, and urges leaders, across the board, to emulate his all-inclusiveness and commitment to the nation.” Jonathan, in a goodwill message he signed and made public, on Friday, described Obasanjo as a sincere patriot. He said, “As you mark this occasion of your 84th birthday, I join your family, friends and well-wishers to thank Almighty God for a fulfilling and highly eventful life. “You are a sincere patriot who has sacrificed so much for the growth and development of our dear country. Your leadership both as a military Head of State and President at different periods produced landmark achievements in uniting and deepening the bond that holds together our diverse country. READ ALSO: Corruption fight will be driven by intelligence, says Bawa “Baba, you are a great African who has contributed so much to the consolidation of laudable regional and sub-regional initiatives on the continent. You will continue to remain relevant in the task of nation-building, especially in this period when the peace and stability in many African nations are greatly challenged. “We pray to God to protect and strengthen you to enable you to continue to lend your experience and wisdom to the development impetus of our dear country, Nigeria.”