Olufemi Olaniyi, Ibadan An elderly woman, Mrs Halira Aminu, whose son, Nuru Aminu, was allegedly arrested by men of Operation Burst following the raid by the Odua People’s Congress on the residence of the Fulani warlord in Kajola, Isikilu Wakili, has cried out for the release of her son. The woman, who spoke with our correspondent in Ibadan on Tuesday, said her 25-year-old son was arrested on Sunday. She said there was confusion in Kajola, in the Ibarapa North Local Area of Oyo State where Wakili’s residence is located following the arrest. She said she there was no way she could leave the farm and she sent other farmers to the son to bring a motorcycle to take her home. The woman said, “Before Nuru came, I saw a vehicle which I boarded. The vehicle took another road and when my son got to the farm, he did not see me. There is a locally-made gun thatwe used for hunting; he picked the gun and was bringing it back home. “Men of Operation Burst met him on the road while he was returning home and arrested him because of the gun. They said he was among those who went and destroyed Wakili’s house. “My son is not a member of OPC, he does not belong  to any vigilante group, but he was arrested.  I am an old woman, I don’t know anybody. They should please release him. They can ask from people around to know the type of person he is.” A farmer, Peter David, who has a farm at Kajola, said the 25-year-old man was arrested because of the locally-made gun. He said, “They use the gun for hunting. The boy is not a troublesome person and he should be released. The Director General of Operation Burst, Col. Oladipo Ajibola ( retd.), could not be reached on the telephone. Also,  messages sent to him on WhatsApp had yet to be replied as at the time of filing this report. Meanwhile, the farmer  said some hoodlums believed to have escaped when Wakili was arrested had started terrorising farmers in the villages around the place. He said that some farmers could still not go to their farms because of the fear of being attacked. He said, Wakili has been arrested but there are still some Fulani who are criminals operating in the area. Some of the members of Wakili’s gang who escaped during the arrest were likely to be some of those who killed four men at Idiyan village on Monday. “They have started burning down farms. They burnt down Aba Baba Pupa and Dagbere. They started on Monday night and the police will not do anything. “We have made several reports before this but nothing was done.” The Police Public Relations Officer in Oyo State, Mr Olugbenga Fadeyi, He said, “ Like I said the other time, anytime they notice that some people are committing a crime, they should call the police, the police can go their quickly and make arrest with evidence.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    