Some members of the Academic Staff Union of Universities at the Lagos State University, Ojo, Lagos, have appealed to the Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, to pick the best candidate among the three nominees submitted to him for the position of a substantive Vice-Chancellor of the institution. The academics, who referred to themselves as ‘the liberators,’ made the request at a press conference in LASU, ahead of the imminent announcement of a new VC. The joint-selection committee, headed by the Chairman of the Governing Council, Prof Adebayo Ninalowo, had on Thursday completed its assignment and submitted to the governor the names of nominees considered to be the most successful among the eight candidates who took part in the final interview held at the institution’s college of medicine. But the coordinator of ‘the liberators,’ Prof Adeleke Fakoya, said they believed whoever came first had the superior intelligence to lead the school. Fakoya said, “We want the LASU-model of excellence to be upheld. Whoever comes first must have prepared himself for that screening, so they should allow him to become the VC. We want the best candidate. We don’t want anyone to be chosen based on tribe, religion and others but strictly based on merit. Mr Governor should pick the number one person on the list. “The government must be wiser; LASU cannot be put in limbo for a long time. The governor should pick the first person and make him or her VC. Since the state prides itself as the centre of excellence, we want the excellence to show through this process.” Another member of the group, Dr Kayode Oyende, of the Faculty of Law, said, “The process is expected to be transparent and credible and if someone has gone through the process of selection and he becomes the first, we recommend that the government should pick the best.” Dr Pius Akhimien of the Department of English also urged Sanwo-Olu to show that he believes in excellence by picking the best. “The governor believes in excellence and this means he should pick the best among the three candidates that will be submitted to him. He shouldn’t leave number one and go and pick number two or three,” Akhimien said. The LASU-ASUU chairman, Dr Ibrahim Bakare, said he did not want the institution to lose its achievements. Bakare added, “We are counting on the government’s reliability and transparency. The governor should replicate what he did in Lagos State Polytechnic when he picked the best candidate. We don’t want ours to be different. We expect that the best candidate is picked; we want to trust the governor to give us nothing but the best.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   