The Lagos State Building Control Agency and Lagos State Physical Planning Permit Authority on Thursday, demolished illegal structures erected along high tension power line in Oladan market, Lasu/Isheri Road in Idimu area of the state. A statement on Friday signed by the two agencies said that the General Manager, LASBCA, Gbolahan Oki, while speaking on the demolition exercise, decried the recalcitrant disposition of owners of the affected structures in the area. He stated that the property had already been served contravention and demolition notices about five years ago. While saying that the buildings brought down by the officials of the state government were considered a threat to the security of lives of residents of the area, the general manager cautioned traders on the need to be security conscious, and desist from putting their lives at risk while transacting businesses. “Just as the state government is concerned about the safety of all Lagosians, it is important that we also take the issue of personal safety very serious,” Oki said. Oki issued a final notice with seven-day ultimatum to the affected market owners to relocate their wares and goods. He also ordered the seal-up of some other buildings erected on the Right of Ways in the area. Also speaking during the exercise, the General Manager, LASPPPA, Funmi Osifuye, said the agency had embarked on the clean-up exercise across the state to address the flagrant disregard for government rules and stance on illegal development. Speaking at the site of the demolition, the general manager said that Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s administration was mindful of lives and properties of all Lagosians and wanted every resident of the state to comply with the master plan for each of the divisions of the state in order to avoid haphazard building construction works. Also at the demolition exercise, the state’s Chief Resilience Officer, Dr Folayinka Dania, stated that from a resilience perspective, the occupied space by the illegal traders needed to be cleared. She stated, “Whether we like it or not, as a driver of resilience, it is important that we protect our natural and man-made assets and safeguard our critical infrastructure. “It is important that everyone knows that Lagos is a resilient city. We will continue to think around our infrastructure and environment to ensure that there is always a Lagos even  for generations yet unborn.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   