Deji Lambo A man, Adeyemi Abayomi, has been arrested by men of the Lagos State Police Command for allegedly unleashing his dogs on policemen detailed to invite him to the Surulere division of the command because of a complaint against him. PUNCH Metro gathered that when the policemen entered Abayomi’s compound, he allegedly released the dogs to attack them. While others fled the scene, an inspector, Atim Umoh, was unlucky as she was injured. READ ALSO: Man runs amok, kills wife with kitchen knife in Anambra The state Police Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi, in a statement on Thursday, said Abayomi had been arrested. He said, “The state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, has again reiterated his commitment to defending security personnel against attacks from individuals and groups while discharging their legitimate duties. “The police boss made the assertion on Thursday, March 4, 2021, while deliberating on the case of one Adeyemi Abayomi, of No 115, Itire Road, Surulere, who unleashed his dogs to attack police operatives on invitation in his compound where the dogs were released and ordered to bite woman inspector Atim Umoh and caused her bodily injuries. “The incident occurred on Tuesday, March 2, 2021, around 11.30am when one Madam Nneka Regina, of No 103, Lagos Street, Ebute Meta, went to the Surulere division to complain against the criminal attitude of the suspect for illegally occupying her property at No 115 Itire Road, Surulere, and threats to life. The police operatives attached to the Surulere division were sent to invite the suspect before he ordered his dogs to attack them. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Traders flee as soldier allegedly kills 45-year-old man in Imo “The CP has ordered that the man be arrested and taken to the State CID for investigation and prosecution, while his dogs be picked up by the Police Dog Section (K-9) for further action.” In another development, the police command arraigned two suspects, Lious Nwodi and Ismaila Salisu, for allegedly assaulting two officials of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority, Ganiya Ajose and Adeyemi Lanre, on Ogunlana Street, in the Surulere area of the state. PUNCH Metro gathered that the duo disobeyed hand signals at the point and sped off, but were forced to stop when their Toyota Highlander SUV, with number plate AAA 450 DD, had a punctured tyre. READ ALSO: Miyetti Allah backs Obiano order declaring AK-47-carrying herdsmen criminals Adejobi said, “They were accosted by the officials, but the duo beat up the LASTMA officials. The CP directed that the duo be charged to court and they were arraigned at Magistrate Court 2 in Surulere, for conspiracy, assault on public servants and malicious damage on Thursday, March 4, 2021.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 