The #EndSARS protests that rocked the country and attracted global attention in October 2020 undoubtedly brought to the fore the enormity of rights abuses and deep-seated anomaly that seem to have existed in the Nigeria Police Force for long. Unchecked extra-judicial killings, use of excessive force, harassment, extortion, profiling and other brazen acts of rights’ violation became the stock-in-trade of some policemen, especially those attached to the now disbanded Special Anti-Robbery Squad. The horrendous testimonies of the victims at the various commissions of inquiry have since melted the suspicions of those who doubted the extent of the rot in the Force. Meanwhile, as the nation still struggles to move on from that episode, given the wreckage left behind by the hoodlums who disrupted the protests, there is again a growing concern over the seeming partiality by policemen when dealing with matters that concern northerners and southerners. The raging farmers-herders crisis has been identified as one issue that is sharply dividing Nigerians across ethnic lines, but in what appears to be a fresh twist to the crisis, many southerners are increasingly alleging that policemen in the south have been brazenly biased, treating northerners preferentially against southerners, especially in the South-West. “It’s an open secret and I have talked so much about it, just that we are helpless,” says a security analyst who preferred not to be named due to the fear of harassment. Perhaps, a few examples would be helpful in situating the subject. The gruesome killing of a first-class monarch in Ondo State, the Olufon of Ifon, Oba Israel Adeusi, by suspected bandits in December was an incident that frightened many people, but hopes were high that the police would fish out the perpetrators. However, an interview by the President, Ifon Development Union, Chief Olufemi Awani, a few weeks ago seems to alter the expectation. Awani told The PUNCH in an interview that while policemen from the office of the Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Federal Investigation Bureau, Special Tactical Squad, Abuja summoned leaders of the community to Abuja over some cows that were killed close to the community, they (people of the community) were not convinced the police were investigating the killing of their monarch. “The police are doing this when we have not resolved the problem of who killed our Kabiyesi; there is no investigation that we know of,” he added. While that was shocking to many, a similar episode in Oyo State aggravated the fears of those who were alarmed by the worrying trajectory. Sometime in February, the Divisional Police Officer of Igbon Division in the Surulere Local Government Area of Oyo State, Mr Ayodeji Adepoju, reportedly shot and injured an Amotekun operative in the state for arresting herdsmen whose cows destroyed the crops of a farmer in the Gambari area of the state. The report, which was confirmed by the Amotekun Commandant in the state, Col Olayinka Olayanju (retd.), noted that the farmer had reported the invasion of his farm to the Amotekun Corps, who arrested the herdsmen. The herders in turn reported the case to the DPO who ordered the arrest of the two Amotekun operatives. While Amotekun’s Unit Commander, Mr Araoye Amoo, visited the station to secure the release of the operatives, the DPO reportedly emerged from his office and shot one of the operatives in the leg. In yet another classic instance, following the clash between Yoruba and Hausa people in the Sasa area of Oyo State, in which both sides suffered losses, there was disquiet when information emerged that only Yoruba people were arrested by the police. The concerns heightened when the Pan Yoruba socio-cultural group, Afenifere, raised the alarm that only Yoruba were charged to court over the violence. The spokesperson for the group, Mr Yinka Odunmakin, said, “Afenifere expresses total disgust at the charging (planned arraignment) of only seven Yoruba men over what was supposed to be a clash between Hausa and Yoruba in Shasa. The police should show more impartiality. Where are the arsonists who burnt down the Yoruba section of the market? Fulanis are above the law? A country cannot go on this way.” Even though the suspects were later released, based on what the state Police Commissioner, Ngozi Onadeko, tied to the “no case” submission of the Director of Public Prosecution in the state, it would seem the people have yet to absolve the police of partiality in the case and some others. While the already escalated ethnic tension and alleged bias by the police issues were still ongoing, there was an outrage over the arrest of some Odua People’s Congress members who arrested a Fulani warlord, Iskilu Wakili, in the Ibarapa area of Oyo State. Wakili was said to have become a threat to the people of the area but was not arrested by the police until the OPC moved in. They have eventually been released, however the impression among the people was that the police was out to protect Wakili and punish those who went after him, especially when the police had failed to arrest him despite reports of infractions filed against him. Regional groups like Middle-Belt Forum and the Pan-Niger Delta Forum also condemned the imbalanced treatment. Apparently unsettled by the action of the police and rising anger over the issue, Governor of Oyo State, Seyi Makinde, said, “I will like to use this opportunity to tell our people that the government is doing everything within its powers to ensure that there is no miscarriage of justice. Anyone that is found wanting or has broken the law, irrespective of their ethnic background or religion, would be dealt with by the law of the land.” While many people found this disturbing, especially with the dwindling unity and peaceful coexistence in the country, it would seem the police are not alone in these perceived divisive actions. What some soldiers did in some villages in Ogun State couple of weeks ago seems even more barbaric. In  December, some of them stormed some villages in the Yewa North Local Government Area of the state accompanying herders that had been prevented from grazing their cattle in the community due to previous destruction of farmlands. After escorting herdsmen to the villages, the soldiers flogged some of the residents. The residents had resisted the continued grazing of cattle on their farmlands amid repeated attacks on the community and the alleged killing of farmers who dared to protest the invasion. Even though the video of the soldiers escorting herdsmen to the villages went viral and became a subject of public discourse, nothing has been done to the soldiers, while the residents that were flogged and their rights brazenly trampled upon, had yet to receive any form of justice. Their elected leaders also seem to have abandoned them to their fate. Even though some monarchs in the community wrote to the Brigade Commander of 35 Artillery Brigade in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, nothing concrete was said to have been done on the alleged harassment and destruction of their farmlands. According to some stakeholders, it is equally worthy of note that most of the cases of reported harassment of citizens by soldiers over trivial issues happen in the South. A common example is when soldiers harass or humiliate civilians, either for perceived indecent dressing or other issues too trivial to be the concern of a soldier trained to fight war and defend the territorial integrity of the country. Most of these happen in the South. “It is an open secret that when there is a conflict between southerners and the northerners, even when the northerners are the perpetrators, southerners end up being treated as suspects while the northerners are treated with kid gloves,” the security analyst added. “What they are trying to do is to intimidate people like Sunday Igboho and frustrate those who are considered to be the intellectual power of the South-West. They are desperate and better organised than the southerners.” “They ask for compensation even when they are the perpetrators. So, it is known to everybody, even to them in the North. They know they are just perpetrating injustice against those that are not northerners. “Unfortunately, southern politicians and so-called leaders are only playing politics of the stomach; just to be in office and have access to resources. The perpetrators of these acts know this and that is why they get away with it all the time.” He said the imbalanced treatment would stop if the people could come together to protest against the injustice. According to many observers, apart from the preferential treatment of northerners against southerners, there have generally been more incidences of rights violation in the South than in the North. Perhaps, this explains why the #EndSARS protests that overtook many southern states took place in only a few northern states, suggesting that the use of excessive force, harassment and extra-judicial killings by SARS and some policemen were more prevalent in the South. The Northern States Governors’ Forum, led by Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State, said at the time that they were opposed to protests and the disbandment of SARS. There were even pro-SARS protests in some northern states like Jigawa and some parts of Abuja. Interestingly, the last time in recent history when such preferential treatment was reported was sometime in 2017 when the police arrested and invited to Abuja some Yoruba persons after a clash between Hausa and Yoruba communities in Ile Ife, Osun State. Even though there were losses on both sides, there was outrage when only suspects of Yoruba extraction were arrested and paraded in faraway Abuja. Since 2017 when this happened, there was really no resurgence until recently. Some persons have therefore attributed the imbalanced treatment of northerners and southerners to what is popularly referred to as the body language of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Clearly, the President did not give such a directive, but many people argue that his disposition had encouraged the preferential treatment of northerners against southerners, especially by security agents. Nigeria currently operates a central policing system, as captured in the Section 214 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), it is expected that the officers and men would be fair and unbiased in the “maintenance and securing of public safety and public order” as stated by the constitution. When told that the policemen that had been accused of treating northerners preferentially are mostly southerners, the security analyst said, “That is the problem; they use their own people against them, perhaps because they promise them all kinds of things while some of them are even paid. Look at the situation in Oyo State. “They get away with these things because the people don’t boldly come out to face them. There are even Yoruba people who advise others to stop talking, and that is the manifestation of the ‘politics of the stomach’. Northerners and south-easterners will not do that to their people but it seems Yoruba people are the only people being used to destroy their own people.” In the view of a security consultant and fellow, Institute of Security, Nigeria, Mr Chigozie Ubani, security agents that are biased do so to protect certain interests and not because that was the national policy. He said, “We have failed to build Nigeria into a nation. Do you blame the police as an entity? If you study the document that established them, there is no police college that would teach policemen to go into the system and disregard some or give preferential treatment to some against others. “What you have is individual interest that has been couched in a manner that it begins to look like a national policy. These things come into play, even in recruitment and appointment processes and we have to correct the anomaly.” Meanwhile, when confronted with the claims of bias by the police in Oyo State, the Police Public Relations Officer in Oyo State, Mr Olugbenga Fadeyi, denied the allegations. He said, “It is unfortunate that despite the efforts of the police to provide security for the lives and property of the people, they still come up with this kind of allegation. But despite that we will not relent, we will continue to do our best to provide security for the lives and property of every law abiding person. That is our duty and we will not relent. “The police are not bias; we don’t support one group against the other. We will continue to do our work as provided for in the constitution and the Police Act. We work for all Nigerians and everybody living in the country or visiting.” On the way forward, Ubani said there was the need for the country to revert to regions so that each region would protect itself, adding that regional policing had become inevitable. He added, “If we go back to that regional design, you would see that the north would pay more attention to that geographical space, likewise the south and they would begin to protect their regions from criminal elements, else we cannot go very far in nation building.” He suggested that if criminals from a particular region are appeased with amnesty while criminals from other regions are not accorded the same treatment, it could easily come across as bias. “We need to agree that whether you burst pipeline for whatever reason, or you kidnap people for ransom or attention, or you are an armed robber, regardless of where you come from and the reason for committing the crime, you will be treated as a criminal, else we will be deregulating anarchy and we can’t go far with that.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   