Patrick Odey,Uyo The Nigerian Export Promotion Council has vowed to make Nigerian cuisine an international brand to make it compete compete favorably with other conutries’ brands. The Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer, Mr Olusegun Awolowo, said this during a one-day sensitisation programme for exporters of Nigerian cuisine organised by NEPC on Thursday in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State capital. Awolowo, represented by the Deputy Director, International Export Office of NEPC, Mr Iliya Yaro, expressed hope that the country would compete with branded restaurants like Chinese, Indian, Japanese, Malaysian and Ethiopian who had gained currency in the global market. The NEPC boss said the initiative was part of the  efforts to intensify the contribution of non-oil exports sector to the Gross Domestic Product of Nigeria. He said identifying different popular ethnic dishes in various states would help boost export of their ingredients. He said, “The Nigeria Cuisine Beyond Border concept is to set up world class and unified standard for Nigerian cuisine across the world. “The Cuisine is expected to taste accredited restaurants across the globe. These restaurants are expected to compete with other branded restaurants like Chinese, Indian, Japanese, Malaysian and Ethiopian that are well known in the global market. “Nigeria cuisine recently trended on the international scene when Victoria’s Kitchen in the USA prepared Nigerian egusi soup with fufu. “The Tiktok/Instagram videos went viral and drew the attention of the world to some Nigerian cuisine and it is interesting to note that the appraisal was mostly positive.” Awolowo emphasised that to achieve the goal, the agency must partner with all stakeholders in the hotel and restaurant business, and key agencies in the Food and Beverage sector in Nigeria and in Diaspora. On her part, the Deputy Director and Trade Promotion Advisor of NEPC, Mr Pauline Ndulaka, commended the the International Export Department of the organisation for organizing the programme to engage stakeholders in the hospitality industry. Ndulaka said, “A good number of Nigerians in the diaspora have been yearning for Nigerian ethnic food especially since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  