Adelani Adepegba The Nigerian Army has announced the appointment of new General Officers Commanding, Principal Staff Officers, Commandant of tri-service institutions, and army training centres. The redeployment which was approved by the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, was disclosed in a statement on Saturday, by the Director, Army Public Relations, Brig. Gen. Mohammed Yerima. The statement titled, ‘Nigeria Army approves new postings and appointments,’ said the redeployment was aimed at repositioning the service for optimal performance. It said all the postings and appointments will take effect from March 10, and admonished the officers to carry out their responsibilities in the most professional manner and “with absolute loyalty to the Commander-in-Chief and in defence of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” The statement said Maj. Gen. AS Maikobi was posted from the Administrative Staff College of Nigeria to the Headquarters, Training and Doctrine Command while Maj. Gen. DC Onyemulu from the Armed Forces Simulation Centre was appointed Commander, Special Task Force (Operation Safe Haven). Maj. Gen SA Yaro of the Nigerian Army Welfare Limited by Guarantee was posted as Commandant, Nigerian Defence Academy; Maj. Gen. LA Adegboye of the Headquarters 82 Division was appointed Chief of Defence Training and Operations, Defence Headquarters; Maj. Gen. OI Uzamere from Army Headquarters Department of Army Logistics was moved to Headquarters Infantry Corps Centre as commander. The statement read, “Maj. Gen. OF Azinta from Defence Headquarters was appointed Chief of Training, Army Headquarters Department of Army Training while Maj. Gen. JB Olawumi is to remain in Defence Headquarters as Chief of Defence Logistics. “Maj. Gen. CO Ude was redeployed from the Defence Headquarters and appointed Commander, Nigerian Army Training Centre; Maj. Gen. G. Oyefesobi was posted from Defence Intelligence Agency to Headquarters Command Army Records while Maj. Gen. BM Shafa of the Defence Research Development Bureau was appointed Chief of Transformation and Innovation, Army Headquarters Department of Army Transformation and Innovation.”