Sterling Bank Plc has assured the Cross River State Government of its continued support and partnership in the implementation of the state’s health insurance scheme tagged ‘Ayade Care’. It said this on Sunday in a statement titled ‘Sterling Bank assures Cross River on health insurance scheme’. The statement said the state government recently launched the scheme in Calabar, the state capital, as part of an effort to achieve health insurance cover for vulnerable citizens in the state. Speaking at the launch, Divisional Head, Education and Health Sectors, Sterling Bank, Mr Obinna Ukachukwu, said the state’s pragmatic approach to the issue of health insurance was commendable as it differed markedly in approach from the norm experienced in the execution of most public service projects. Ukachukwu said he was elated that Ayade, who was fondly referred to as a ‘digital governor,’ was now working on health insurance scheme in partnership with Sterling Bank – the digital bank. He started that, “Health is the first pillar of the HEART strategy of Sterling Bank. “That is why we are  very passionate about the sector; especially  because of its importance to the development of the economy and to the well-being of Nigerians.” The divisional head added that the health sector was one of the five key sectors which the bank had focused investments on for many years now, adding that the sectors were collectively referred to as the HEART sectors. “HEART stands for health, education, agriculture, renewal energy and transportation,” it stated. He noted that the Cross River Health Insurance Scheme would be the most digitally enabled state health insurance programme in the country as it was running on the internationally proven Rx Health technology platform, which had been made possible through the partnership of the state with a technology consortia that is led by ICT Health Solutions Limited and Sterling Bank Plc as the  scheme enabler. He reiterated that the bank remained committed to do everything needed to sustain the scheme while urging the State Government to give its maximum support to the scheme so that it can achieve the purpose for which it was established. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 