Kwara State government has again announced the extension of the closure of 10 Mission Secondary Schools in Ilorin, the state capital. A statement released early on Monday morning and signed by Mrs Kemi Adeosun, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education and Human Capital Development said that the schools should remain closed because of security reasons. Recall that the government shut the 10 schools belonging to some Christian Missions in the state on February 19, 2021, following a crisis on the wearing of Hijab by Muslim female students who are attending the schools. READ ALSO: Health workers’ lists: Uncertainty surrounds vaccination in Kano, Osun, Delta, eight others The government had earlier said that it approved the wearing of Hijab in all government grant-aided public schools in the state and directed that the schools be reopened today (Monday, March 8, 2021) The government statement read, “Ministry of Education and Human Capital Development wishes to inform members of the public that the 10 government schools where the use of hijaab is disputed will remain shut until a later date. READ ALSO: Banks woo customers with new CBN ‘naira-4-dollar’ policy “This decision has been taken for safety reasons. “A statement by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education and Human Capital Development, Mrs Kemi Adeosun, listed the schools to include C&S College Sabo Oke, ST. Anthony College, Offa Road, ECWA School, Oja Iya, Surulere Baptist Secondary School, Bishop Smith Secondary School, Agba Dam, CAC Secondary School Asa Dam road, St. Barnabas Secondary School Sabo Oke, St. John School Maraba, St. Williams Secondary School Taiwo Isale, and St. James Secondary School Maraba. READ ALSO: Controversy as Nigerian music label owner dies in Ghana, artiste arrested “The government, therefore, directs school children and teachers in the affected schools to remain at home until the contrary is announced. The government remains committed to fairness, pluralism, and respect for the law and rights of every citizen at all times.”