Dennis Naku, Port Harcourt Former Governor of Katsina State, Ibrahim Shehu Shema has called on all Nigerians to sink their differences and work together against insurgents who have continued to threaten the national peace and unity of the country. Shema made the call before inaugurating the reconstructed Chief Ferdinand Alabaraba Crescent and Opobo Crescent in GRA Phase 2, Port Harcourt, Rivers State on Wednesday. Shema who was Governor Nyesom Wike’s special guest at the event said most Nigerians had become preoccupied with their disagreement in the political sphere appeared to have ignored the danger criminal elements posed to national life if they would be allowed to hold sway. “Nigeria must come together in this period of insecurity. We must not give the bandits, the kidnappers, and the Boko Haram the opportunity to have a field day, while Nigerians are fighting and arguing with each other. We must come together, join hands together for the purpose of Nigeria and Nigerians. “My word of caution here is that we cannot allow criminal elements to overtake our national life. So, I am calling on all stakeholders across the nation to join hands together to end this threat to our national well-being,” he added. He noted the huge investment Governor Wike has made in ensuring food security in the state, saying, focusing on agriculture and using it to engage the youths is another milestone of success secured in the development of Rivers State and its people. “Huge investment has gone into infrastructural development; both soft and hard infrastructure. You are also working hard on food security. You are doing this cassava facility for youths to be trained there. We need to focus heavily on agriculture for our youths to benefit and grow in modern skill of infrastructural development in Rivers State and Nigeria,” the former Katsina State Governor stated He lauded Wike for consistently developing critical infrastructure, changing the landscape of the state, and making life comfortable for the people. “Rivers State, since you became governor, is experiencing changes in terms of development. The list goes on because you have touched all sectors. But clearly, what is critical in this effort of governance is that you’re applying resources where it matters most. “You’re therefore helping to grow the economy in Rivers State by which you’re ensuring peace and security with economic development. I am sure, by the grace of God, that by the time you leave office your after story will live after you and your children,” the former Katisina Governor said. Speaking, Governor Wike said his administration was making its modest contribution towards restoring the Garden City status of Port Harcourt. He noted that the support he had continued to enjoy from leaders in the State had enabled his team to have such a success record in service to the state. “Let me say clearly that in the course of our campaigns, we did say that we will bring back Port Harcourt to what it used to be. The special guest of honour who had lived in Port Harcourt before can attest to it that we are trying our best to bring back Port Harcourt to what it used to be in our own modest way. “I’m happy with the leaders of the State for their support. Whatever we are doing in this State, we do it as a team. That is why you see the leadership always together. I thank them for their support. But for them, it would have been impossible for us to carry out the jobs that we have been doing. “When they are giving you the support, you are bound to do more. But if when you’re working, you see division within your family it will, of course, discourage you. Let me thank my leaders for what they are doing to move the state forward,” Wike stated. 