The Federal Government has declared that it will not negotiate with bandits and insurgents in its ongoing fight against insecurity in the country. It also ruled out engaging mercenaries to support the security forces in routing criminal elements holding sway in parts of the country. The National Security Adviser, Maj. Gen. Babagana Monguno (retd.), said these at the third edition of the Villa Media Briefing, with focus on the security sector, in Abuja on Thursday Responding to a question on renewed calls by the North-East governors for the Federal Government to engage foreign mercenaries in routing Boko Haram terrorists from the Sambisa forest and other insurgents’ enclaves, the NSA said, “The President’s view and directive is that we will not engage mercenaries when we have our own people to deal with these problems. We have the personnel and resources, and the President has given a new lease of life to the Armed Forces.” Monguno also ruled out negotiations with insurgents and bandits, insisting that that would suggest weakness and incapacity on the part of the government. He added that the government would deploy all necessary force to eliminate the insurgents and bandits. He said the government would not succumb to blackmail and the use of criminals by proxies to harass innocent citizens. The NSA stated, “While the government is not averse to talking with these entities, it also has to fully apply its weight. You can’t negotiate with people, who are unreliable and who will continue to hurt society. We will apply the full weight of the government to deal with these criminals. “These are not people looking for anything genuine or legitimate; they’re just out to take calculated measures to inflict pain and violence on innocent people. We must deal with them the way they need to be dealt with. We will fully assert the government’s will. “We are also focusing on the associated dimensions of banditry and terrorism: Illegal drugs, the flow of small arms and light weapons, and illegal mining in places like Zamfara. These are some of the scenarios fuelling the violence, and we are already tackling them decisively.” The NSA also disclosed that between March and December 2020, the military successfully took out 2,403 insurgents in the North-East. On why the government was silent on Ahmad Gumi, an Islamic cleric, who has been calling on the government to grant amnesty to insurgents, Monguno said he had met and interacted with him briefly in Kaduna at the zonal town hall meeting with service chiefs, but that he was still waiting for the cleric to come forth. He also said the recent changes made by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to the security architecture “gives us a ray of hope that things will be adjusted so that whatever we do as regards securing Nigeria will be in conformity with the aspirations of the people.” On external support, the NSA stated, “There’s a Regional Intelligence Fusion Unit, comprising US, UK, France working with us and our neighbours. They’ve been supporting us with intelligence. For us, what’s most important is acting on the intelligence – that’s why we’re investing in equipment and assets.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  