What is your educational qualification? I had my elementary education at Federal Housing Estate Primary School, Victoria Island, Lagos. Then, I went on to Lagos African Church Grammar School in Ogba, also in Lagos. I have a Bachelor of Arts Degree in Literature in English from Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife, Osun State. When and why did you set up JnB Designs? I decided to follow my passion after working for a few years in the corporate world. The company was registered in 2013. As a little girl, I loved to sew and work with my hands. I loved arts and crafts, and also used to draw. I did comic books and other things. My mum had always been sewing, so I used to help her out. She attended fashion school when I was young. And when she came home with her work, we used to do it together. I always tell people that if I had known this is what I would end up doing, I would not have studied English Literature at the university. I probably would have just studied fashion designing. I planned to work in the corporate world for five years, then set up a fashion house, but I ended up working for only three years before I decided to become an entrepreneur. I got tired of the 9-5 job and wanted to express myself. What do you aim to achieve with the company? I have always wanted to sew and make money from doing that because it is something I am very passionate about. I guess I wanted to kill two birds with a stone, as well as impact my community. What are your highlights so far with the company? The highlight, for me, has been the impact I have been able to make. I have been able to impart knowledge of fashion designing through my free training programmes, both online and offline. What are some of the challenges you encounter in the course of running the business and how do you solve them? Some of the challenges I grapple with are sourcing for fabrics and accessories, dealing with the constantly rising cost of doing business and unstable electricity supply. However, the good thing is that we are Nigerians and we can adapt to any situation. Has the purpose for the creation of the company being achieved? To some extent, it has, but not completely. In terms of following my dreams, I have been able to do that. But, as regards educating more people; that is still in the pipeline. It is going to be a continuous process. How does your company empower youths? I conduct free training occasionally, both online and offline, for those who are interested. I do this as a way of contributing my quota to society because I believe that skill acquisition is very important. What distinguishes you from other fashion designers out there? That would be my passion for excellence and love for the job. I believe I have an eye for details. As a designer, one needs to see all the intricate pieces put together. The things an ordinary eye may not notice on an outfit should not be missed by the designer. Also, I have check this word for excellence and I am constantly evolving and reinventing myself by keeping abreast of current trends. What is your work experience? I worked for three years in the corporate world, basically in human resources and administration. I am also a member of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Management. What are some of the most important business lessons you have learnt over the years? The most important, for me, would be problem solving. If one is in business with a problem solving mindset, one would go far. What are the common mistakes young entrepreneurs should avoid? One of the most important is delayed gratification. They should learn to grow the business first before settling down to live a life of luxury. How are you positioning your brand for the international market? I am planning on acquiring international education in fashion that would expose me to the international market and their way of doing business. Who are your role models and how have they shaped your career growth? The Senior Pastor of Daystar Christian Centre, Sam Adeyemi, has played an important role in my life and business. I have learnt a lot from him as an individual and a business owner. Values of excellence, integrity and accountability, among others, have shaped my life and business in more ways than one. What advice do you have for youths in terms of achieving success in their careers? Follow your dreams, and while at it, keep getting information and exposure. Also, delay gratification, and it would pay off eventually. How do you relax? I love hanging out with friends, watching TV, surfing the Internet and reading. What are the most common mistakes youths make as regards career advancement? Most youths don’t have the right information, as regards their desired careers. That is probably because we don’t have a culture of guidance and counselling at the secondary school level, so they cannot really make informed decisions regarding their desired career paths. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   