Adeniyi Olugbemi, Sokoto Towards achieving the Federal Government initiative on the diversification of the nation’s economy, Onion Producers and Marketers Association of Nigeria, has inaugurated documented onion exports through Illela land border in Sokoto State. The event inaugurated by Abdulrahameed Ma’aji, the Area Controller of Nigerian Customs Service in charge of Sokoto and Zamfara states, urged producers and marketers to utilise the opportunity for enhanced production and trading. Ma’aji reiterated said the NCS worked with stipulated laws and guidelines to enhance trade and encourage domestic entrepreneurs, individuals and groups to key into exports for national economic growth. In his remark,  Malam Aliyu Isah, president, National Onion Producers and Marketers Association of Nigeria, described onion as a universal commodity consumed by every household with vast potential that could attract foreign investors and create employment opportunities. Aliyu said Nigeria had some of the best onions in the world with the basement complex in soils along the Rima Valley of Sokoto, Kebbi and part of Zamfara, that helped to increase the allusin content (n-propyl-disulphate), which is responsible for strong pungency He said, “Onion is an important vegetable, whose distinctive flavor and medicinal content is appreciated by people throughout the world. “It is being used as bulbs, onion powder, and others. It serves as raw material in the production of maggi, ketchup, noodles, seasoning, onion oil, onion jam, flakes by various food industries. “Onion is also used in pharmaceutical products, targeting the management of obesity, heart disease and cancer, due to its high vitamins, mineral and antioxidants content. “With the present arrangement, Nigeria will continuously export onions to Niger Republic, Ghana, Burkina Faso, Benin Republic, Mali, Cote D’Ivoire, and others, with more expanding opportunities.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    