The Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal, has revealed plans to build 40 model secondary schools to boost education in the state. He also revealed that his administration’s agenda to build 160 new primary and secondary schools has recorded more than 50 per cent success. Tambuwal, who is also the Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party Governors Forum, was said to have revealed this during the combined first, second and third convocation ceremony of the Sokoto State University, in Sokoto, on Saturday. A statement from the PDPGF Secretariat, on Sunday, quoted the governor as pointing out that the renovation of 1,500 primary schools and 180 junior secondary schools clearly pointed to his administration’s commitment to the enhancement of the fortunes of the education at the basic and secondary levels in the state. It read in part, “The governor recalled the construction in 2016 of Model Government Secondary School, Balle in Gudu Local Government, hitherto the only Local Government Area without a Senior Secondary School in Nigeria. ‘’All these, he noted, have set the standard guiding the expansion of the education subsector in Sokoto State. “Education remains the pivotal factor in achieving any meaningful development in every society, particularly in this age of enlightenment when knowledge remains the driver of socio-political, technological and economic development. “It is in line with this reality that we see that education remains at the top of the priority list of this administration. Pursuant to our policy of a State of Emergency on Education since 2015 when we first came on board and in the current dispensation from 2019 to date, our budgetary allocation to education has never fallen below 26 per cent. “In 2016, we had a whopping 29 per cent allocation to education above the UNESCO benchmark and ever since, we have maintained the tempo by ensuring sustained funding for the education subsector. “Funding coming from the education levy through the concern and goodwill of political office holders and civil servants in the state and a handsome budgetary allocation to education, have greatly assisted in turning around the fortune of the subsector in the state. “The construction in 2016 of Model Government Secondary School, Balle in Gudu Local Government, hitherto the only Local Government Area without a Senior Secondary School in Nigeria, has set the standard guiding the expansion of the education subsector in Sokoto State. “The intention is to build 40 such model secondary schools in the state, while our agenda of building 160 new primary and secondary schools in the state has recorded more than 50 per cent of accomplishment.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 