Olalekan Adetayo, Abuja Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo has said Nigeria’s commitment to energy transition is firm, adding that the country will ensure it realises its commitment to net-zero emissions by 2050. According to a statement on Wednesday by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Laolu Akande, the Vice President spoke during a virtual meeting he had with a delegation of the European Union led by its Executive Vice President, Mr Valdis Dombrovskis, on Tuesday. The statement was titled “Don’t block financing for gas investments yet, Osinbajo insists in dialogue with EU.” Akande quoted the Vice President as maintaining the advocacy that the international community should preserve financing for gas projects in Nigeria and other developing countries, during the transition to net-zero emission. He said discussions at the meeting focused on bilateral investment agreements between Nigeria and the EU cutting across diverse areas including technology, intellectual property rights, research and innovation, humanitarian assistance, energy access, and renewable energy. He quoted Osinbajo as saying that “A point which I think we can talk about is the sort of support that we hope to get from the EU especially with respect to ensuring that we meet our commitment to net-zero emissions by 2050. “Our commitment to energy transition is firm, and we think that for us, it is an area of comparative advantage. “So, we are hoping to leverage that. I think that we will again be very happy to work on improving the investment environment to ensure that we are able to work as much as possible with the EU partners.” Emphasising the need to leverage opportunities to build a stronger partnership with the EU in the gas sector, Osinbajo said Nigeria would explore the caveat in the EU green energy financing instrument to seek better ways of financing for gas projects in the country. He added, “What we see is a growing trend among development financial institutions to withdraw from fossil fuel investment and recently, the World Bank’s decision to cease funding for upstream oil and gas development. The new restrictions on financing downstream developments appear to be considered by some countries in the West. “We believe that well-intended as some of these actions may be, it is clear to us that they would disregard the importance of gas as a means of urgently addressing energy poverty for us and countries such as ours.” According to the statement, Dombrovskis spoke on the importance of reviewing investment agreements between Nigeria and the EU, disclosing the commission’s plan to increase its external investment capacities. On the Vice President’s call for sustained financing of gas investments in the country and beyond, the EU chief, according to the statement, said the decision to phase out investments in fossil fuels was in line with the organisation’s policy on promoting green energy initiatives. He however urged authorities in the country to explore the caveat in the financing instruments to seek other ways of attracting investments for projects in the gas sector.