Chima Azubuike, Gombe Gombe State Governor, Muhammadu Yahaya, on Monday, approved the review of the curfew imposed on Billiri Local Government Area from 6am to 6pm. Announcing the resolve of the government, Secretary to State Government, Prof. Ibrahim Njodi, said those on essential services are not bound by the restriction. Recall that the state government had imposed 24 hours curfew since the 19th of February, but was reviewed to 6am – 2pm, following the gradual return of peace in the community from the violence that erupted from the protest on the ‘Maiship’ of the land. READ ALSO: Police lied, we didn’t burn down Iskilu Wakili’s house —OPC A Member representing Billiri East constituency in Gombe State House of Assembly, Rambi Ayala, had appealed to the state governor, Muhammadu Yahaya, to review the ongoing curfew in Billiri Local Government Area, adding that “Our people at the moment are having challenges with the curfew. We want to extend this appeal to the government that perhaps this curfew is looked into and be reviewed with the view to allowing our people to engage positively with one another. To interact freely and be able to fend for themselves. “We believe that if the curfew is reviewed or totally lifted, our people will be better. I’m using this opportunity to extend this concern to His Excellency, the governor of Gombe over this particular situation.” According to Njodi, “Governor Muhammadu Yahaya has approved the review of Billiri LGA curfew from 6am to 6pm with effect from today Monday 8th March 2021. This is with the exception of those on essential services. READ ALSO: UK approves work permit for Nigerians, other grad students “The review follows the improvement of the security situation in the area. “All security agencies are hereby directed to ensure strict compliance with this directive. All citizens are expected to comply with the directive.” While urging the people of Billiri Local Government Area to be law-abiding, he tasked them to remain peaceful in carrying out their activities. READ ALSO: Obasanjo is Nigeria’s best president since 1999, says Moghalu