How has the COVID-19 pandemic affected the Nigerian banking sector? The COVID-19 pandemic came with lots of uncertainties regarding the duration, the extent of impact and how it will pan out in terms of impact on the overall economy and global supply chains and then the financial markets. There was quite significant uncertainty at the beginning but as various countries took steps quickly first on the health front through various lockdowns and protocols, the financial industry saw the need to take major steps to stimulate the economy to withstand the impact of such lockdowns and shocks to the system. In Nigeria, the central bank was very responsive and immediately provided guidance in terms of palliative, intervention funds, and moratorium, as well as leading or galvanising the private sector to also participate in significant corporate social responsibility to support the households in particular. So, for the banking industry, it was a question of how the economy would pan out and how we can sustain growth in engaging with our customers. Then we moved quickly into identifying the most vulnerable sectors and how the banking industry would support them. It became very clear that the hospitability, aviation, manufacturing and agricultural sectors were going to be largely impacted. Therefore, the industry moved into stimulating the economy with more credit to the various sectors and reduced the cost of funds. This was led by the central bank, which reduced the cost of funds from nine per cent to five per cent for intervention facilities, with a drive towards a single-interest rate regime in order that the productive segment is able to bear the brunt of the impact of the pandemic. But for us specifically at Ecobank, we immediately deployed our business contingency plans, which involved the ability to provide services and working remotely because our customers depend on us for their daily payments and collections. We also made sure that we actually support our customers by reviewing the interest rates on their loans downwards so that the burden of carrying their economic activities was reduced by granting them moratorium – those that qualified for a moratorium in principal repayment and interest repayment so that the arrival rate of their obligations matches the cash flow of their operations. We also, because we are a member of the Ecobank Group, which is a pan-African institution, collaborated with the African Union and the New Partnership for Africa’s Development to provide finance, mentoring and technical knowledge for the micro, small and medium-scale enterprises because they needed a close support to understand how to deal with this unusual pandemic. We had invested significantly in digital platforms across Africa and in Nigeria in particular, enabling our corporate customers to use Omni Plus and Omni Lite for payments and collections; the SMEs using EcobankPay for their payments and collections, and the households and individuals being able to use our Ecobank Mobile, Ecobank USSD and our agency banking, EcobankExpress, which we took to various neighbourhoods. In fact, last year, we moved from 6,000 agency locations to 20,000. There was increased lending by banks to the economy last year, with the total credit rising to N25.02tn as of December, according to the CBN. The non-performing loan ratio also increased to 6.01 per cent from 5.88 per cent in November. How do banks ensure that there is no further deterioration in their loan portfolios, given the economic fallout of the pandemic? I think first, it will be fair to say that the Nigerian economy before the pandemic, had key areas that were being worked on following the economic meltdown of 2015/2016 as a result of oil crisis. That growth agenda, including financial inclusion target, focused on mobilising deposits and aggregating investments in the economy, shifting the portfolio dynamics for concentration on oil and gas as a country to diversify into non-oil exports, self-sufficiency in the agric space, and exports of value-added services. All these items are structurally engineered to ensure that in the medium term, the economy itself will be strong and the participants will be able to honour their commitments. So, that agenda continued but specific to this scenario, you may recall that the central bank increased the cash reserve requirement of banks from 22.5 per cent to 27.5 per cent. The whole idea is to improve the liquidity in the system to help banks handle the shocks of liquidity swings. Second, the central bank gave an industry-wide moratorium to the banks to discuss with their customers, that knowing that there is a shock from the pandemic, it is important that cash flow expectations match the loan obligations, so that there won’t be a temporary mismatch that then throws the economy into many more problems. And we also did that with our customers. From 2016 to 2019, lending rates were averaging about 16 per cent. However, by October last year, that had come down to 11.31 per cent. The whole idea is to improve the ability of customers to be able to service their obligations and at the same, pushing new investments into the productive sectors of the economy – agric, manufacturing, the creative industry and those various preferred segments. The aggregate of all these is such that in the medium term, these sectors are expected to turn around and shake off the impact of the pandemic. Given the fact that the level of severity of the pandemic that was predicted did not happen, the level of steps taken is adding value now to the recovery of the economy as we saw in the growth in the GDP in the last quarter. Now for the banking industry, it will take a while to see the full impact; however, the approach we are taking at Ecobank is to look at the arising growth opportunities and use the new arrival of good performance to exceed the downside of the aspects of our portfolio that are challenged by the pandemic. In February, Ecobank Nigeria successfully issued a five-year $300m bond; what informed the decision to raise capital from the international debt capital market? For us at Ecobank, we look at developments within Nigeria and across Africa because we are a pan-African institution; we have an unparalleled distribution network, and therefore when the continental free trade agreement was being put together, we paid close attention and understood that it would start operation in January 2021. Notwithstanding any of the COVID-19 or other issues that came up in 2020, we believe firmly that this new era, coming from a situation where Africa was handling intra-African trade of only 16 per cent of its global trade activity while other continents were in the range of 50 to 60 per cent, we saw the opportunity that Africa, as one market, will mean more business for Ecobank as we become the gateway bank for pan-African trade. In order to play that role effectively, it is important to have medium to long-term foreign currency liquidity because international trade is still done primarily in the US dollar today. Therefore, we decided to approach the international market and given the fact that we have proven competence in facilitating trade, payments and collections across Africa – and Nigeria, being the largest economy and the most populous country in Africa, has a big role to play in the African trade era – we, therefore, decided to go into the international debt market to attract foreign currency liquidity on a medium-term basis to drive our intention to facilitate pan-African trade out of Nigeria, facilitate payments and collections. So, this is essentially to lengthen our balance sheet and give us the muscle to play that role as the go-to bank for pan-African trade. That was why we decided to approach the market, and the response was very good, which speaks to investors’ confidence in the capability of Ecobank. At the peak of marketing this transaction, the issue was over three times oversubscribed with interest from international investors. This is the first non-sovereign bond from Africa in 2021, and it demonstrates our ability to plan ahead and be right on the ball to be able to attract favourable credit terms from the global debt capital market. The CBN said in December that recipients of diaspora remittances might have the option of receiving their funds in foreign currency cash or into their ordinary domiciliary account. How has this policy impacted the sector? It is a policy in the right direction because what it does is create an even playing ground for the financial system to deepen the trust of the customer base because the customer base was always concerned about the exchange rate when they received their remittances. Therefore, we saw people using various channels to try to get value for their inflows. Now, this new policy direction, which enables recipients to receive their money in foreign currency, will deepen the trust. Second, the regulator has also enabled banks to automatically open domiciliary accounts for recipients that do not have accounts before receipt of such money. That is also going to improve financial inclusion. The estimate of about $20-$22bn of diaspora remittances into Nigeria on an annual basis now has a good chance of coming through official channels. For us, at Ecobank, we had always invested in providing digital platforms for Africans in the diaspora, including Nigerians, to be able to remit money home seamlessly. We have integrated with six international money transfer operators already for seamless transactions, and we still have about five others that are currently in process, which in this month of March, we should have more than 10 IMTOs, whose remittances will go straight to beneficiaries in Nigeria in a transparent and instant manner. And I think my colleagues in the other banks are doing the same. The policy will improve our foreign currency inflows in the country and our reserves position, stabilise our economy and stimulate production within Nigeria. You have been the MD of Ecobank Nigeria for over two and a half years; what new thinking and strategies have you brought on board? The first is re-establishing the position of Ecobank as a member of a unique pan-African franchise – implementing the strategy and vision of Ecobank in Nigeria. No other bank, whether in Africa or globally, has the presence Ecobank has in Africa – we are in 33 countries. We have a payment switch that enables us to handle payments instantly across Africa. The second is a focus on customer fulfilment. We leverage digital platforms to make our services convenient, accessible and reliable for our customers. In 2019, we were rated fourth in the Customer Satisfaction Survey of KMPG in the SMEs space. In 2020, we moved to third on that ranking, and we wish to keep going till we get to the top. Third, our people; our people play a big role in how we engage with our customer. So, we focus a lot on capacity building. The fourth is focusing on improving shareholders’ returns. Leveraging on our investment in technology and distribution capability, we are reducing costs to serve while growing the scale of operations. We are also focusing on making sure that the quality of our loans continues to improve. We are also strengthening our capital and liquidity. So, Ecobank Transnational Incorporated invested an additional $150m in the equity of Ecobank Nigeria between 2018 and 2019 under my watch. We also attracted tier-2 capital from the Development Bank of Nigeria last year – N50bn to support SMEs and micro-enterprises. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   