Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki AN Ebonyi State Magistrate’s court on Wednesday remanded a 45-year-old man, one Ezaka Linus, for raping an 11-year-old pupil. The defendant, Linus, a father of five children, ireportedly took the little child inside a bush close to where a burial ceremony held and had carnal knowledge of her. The PUNCH learnt that the victim’s mother, whom she attended the burial with, had searched for her without hope. It was said that she was about reporting her worry to the bereaved family, but she was informed by another villager that a man took her child into the bush. A court source said, “It was when the man was coming out from the bush with her that the mother saw them. “At that point, the victim, who was holding N20 note in her hand, which the man gave her, told her mother what happened to her.” The Police Prosecutor, Inspector Sabastine Alumona, told the court that the offence was punishable under section 34 (2) of of the Ebonyi State Child Rights and Related Matters, 2010. The charge read, “That you, Ezaka Linus, on the 6th of March, 2021, at 1900hrs inside a bush at Umuome Oriuzor, Ezza North, within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court, did have unlawful carnal knowledge of a girl, aged 11 and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 34 (2) of the Ebonyi State Child Rights and Related Matters, 2010.” The defendant, in his statement, confessed to the crime and pointed out that the incident of March 6th was the fifth time he had sex with the victim. “I did it. She is my lover. I love her. We have been having sex since January this 2021. I used to give her N20 to buy biscuits. I am guilty. Judge, have mercy on me,” the defendant told the court. The Defense Counsel, U.M. Akpamba, pleaded the court to be lenient with his client. But the Chief Magistrate, Mrs Nnenna Onuoha, ordered that the defendant to be remanded at the Nigerian Correctional Centre, Abakaliki, while his case file should be transferred to the office of the Director of Public Prosecution for necessary legal action. Onuoha adjourned the matter till March 24, 2021. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  