The Presidency said the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Thursday, emphasised his marching order to security chiefs to go harder on criminals, including shooting anyone found illegally with AK-47. Buhari was quoted to have made the emphasis at a meeting with the National Council of Traditional Rulers of Nigeria at the State House, co-chaired by the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammad Abubakar III and the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi. This was contained in a statement issued by the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, titled, ‘We Are Going to Be Harder on Criminals, President Buhari Tells Traditional Rulers…Restates Order that Anyone Found with AK-47 Illegally Be Shot.’ According to the statement, those at the meeting were security chiefs, including the National Security Adviser, Major-General Babagana Monguno (retd.); Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Adamu; the Director-General of the Department of State Services, Yusuf Bichi; and the Director-General of National Intelligence Agency, Ambassador Ahmed Abubakar. Also at the meeting were the Sultan of Sokoto; the Ooni of Ife; the Obi of Onitsha, Igwe Nnaemeka Achebe; the Etsu Nupe, Alhaji Yahaya Abubakar; King Jaja of Opobo, Dr. Dandeson Douglas Jaja; Emir of Bauchi, Dr Rilwanu Suleiman Adamu; Emir of Gwandu, Alhaji Muhammad Iliyasu; and the Alawe of Ilawe-Ekiti, Oba Adebanji Ajibade Alabi. Buhari was said to have briefed the meeting on the efforts by the government to improve the security situation in the country, saying his regime had recorded appreciable successes in the North-East and South-South geopolitical zones of the country. He said, “But what surprises is what is happening now in the North-West where the same people, with the same culture are killing each other, taking their livestock and burning properties. Buhari was quoted to have expressed dismay over the attacks on police stations and killings of security personnel by criminals, warning that no investor will invest in a country that is unsafe. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  