Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna The pan-Northern socio-political organization, Arewa Consultative Forum, said the arrest of an Army Officer and his girlfriend for supplying ammunition and uniforms to bandits in Zamfara State was a welcome development in an effort to eliminate banditry and other related crimes in the state. The arrest of the soldier was on the heels of the ACF’s challenge to the governor of Zamfara State, Alhaji Bello Matawalle, to identify those behind the kidnap of the 297 students of Government Girls Secondary School, Jangebe in Talata Mafara in the state. The governor had claimed that he knew these collaborators and that Nigerians would be shocked to know them. But the ACF in the statement by the National Chairman Chief Audu Ogbe had called on the governor to give the names and let the heavens fall. The ACF through its National Publicity Secretary, Emmanuel Yawe, in a statement in Kaduna on Monday, expressed happiness over the arrest of the Army Officer. The northern body also commended the governor for approving the removal of the Emir of Mary and a district head for allegedly supporting banditry in the state. The statement read in part, “We are happy to note that the government of Zamfara has acted appropriately. A soldier and his girlfriend have been arrested in Zamfara for supplying arms and military uniforms to bandits. “The deputy chief of staff to the Zamfara State governor who represented him at a press conference said the arrest followed information supplied by community-based intelligence. “The governor has also approved the removal of Emir of Maru, ABUBAKAR Chika, and the district head of Kanoma, Lawal Ahmed for allegedly giving support to bandits responsible for hundreds of deaths. “The Emir & the district head have been on suspension since June last year and were under investigation that found them guilty of the complaints from their subjects that they were collaborating with bandits & kidnappers. “We of the ACF congratulate the Zamfara State Government led by Bello Matawalle for these bold steps. We urge him to go ahead with the good work he is doing. The Almighty Allah who does not sleep will protect him. Nothing will happen to him.”