THE trial of Senator Shehu Sani, who represented Kaduna Central in the 8th Senate, continued on Monday, before Justice I. E. Ekwo of the Federal High Court, Abuja, with the 10th prosecution witness, Bako Aliyu, providing more details on how Sani allegedly extorted Alhaji Sani Dauda, the Chairman of ASD Motors. Sani is facing prosecution on two counts bordering on name-dropping, influence-peddling and obtaining the sum of $25,000 on false pretence. According to a statement from the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission Spokesman, Wilson Uwujaren, the trial was initially slated to review the audio evidence which captured Senator Sani’s voice, allegedly extorting $25,000 from Dauda. However, due to a systems glitch, the interpreted English version of the conversation could not be played, prompting the judge to ask Aliyu, an investigator with the EFCC, to continue giving evidence on his involvement on the case. Aliyu, in his evidence, recalled his previous testimony of how the defendant took advantage of Dauda, following the issues he had with the Nigeria Police, to extort him, claiming he was going to offer the money as bribe to the Chief Justice of the Federation, then EFCC Chairman, Ibrahim Magu and some operatives of the anti-graft agency. He said the Chief Justice and the former EFCC Chairman denied receiving any bribe from Sani, with the Chief Justice publishing his denial in two national dailies. “There was evidence of a request of money from the defendant, asking the complainant for money to bribe the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Ibrahim Magu and some EFCC staff,” he said. Upon learning that the matter was before the commission, the witness said the defendant hurriedly returned the money to the complainant, begging him to change the statement he had volunteered to the EFCC. Justice Ekwo, thereafter, adjourned the matter till March 16, 2021 for continuation of trial and cross examination of PW10. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    