’Femi Asu Axxela Limited says it has successfully inaugurated an 18km gas pipeline system in Ogun State. The company said on Wednesday that this was done through its subsidiary Transit Gas Nigeria Limited, and in partnership with the Nigerian Gas Marketing Company Limited, a subsidiary of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation. The pipeline, which has a capacity of 150 million standard cubic feet per day, runs from Ibefun to Rite Foods Limited’s large-scale factory in Ososa, Ogun State, according to a statement issued by the company. It said the first gas had been delivered through this pipeline to Rite Foods Limited, adding that with consistent gas supply, the fast-moving consumer goods company would achieve significant energy cost-savings. Axxela Chief Executive Officer, Bolaji Osunsanya, highlighted the company’s commitment to growth and industrialisation. He said, “This venture is in firm alignment with our near-to-long term market expansion strategy, and emphasises our push to broaden our asset portfolio and strengthen our market play within the gas sector. “Axxela/NGMC pioneered gas distribution in the Greater Lagos area, and our present positioning enables us significantly increase our industrial and commercial client footprint across the south-western corridor. “By providing the gas advantage, we are enabling the development of self-sustaining industrial clusters to bolster Nigeria’s industrialisation and socioeconomic empowerment.” The Sagamu Gas Distribution Zone development is a joint venture between NGMC and TGNL which commenced operations in 2019 by delivering gas to growing industrial users, according to the statement. Speaking on the NGMC/TGNL JV and the new pipeline grid, the Managing Director, NGMC, Mr Faruk Usman, was quoted as saying, “As part of our strategy, we are delighted to pioneer and implement initiatives with private players, which is a clear indication of our willingness to collaborate and ensure the success of Nigeria’s Gas Expansion Programme. “The SGDZ will contribute to the development of the Sagamu – Ijebu Ode axis by facilitating industrial growth, cleaner energy generation, and fostering community employment through gas availability.” The statement said in line with Axxela’s and NGMC’s commitment to the International Finance Corporation’s performance standards, Corporate Social Responsibility projects had been implemented across the host communities of the operation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  