Our correspondents More governors on Wednesday received the Oxford-AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine, saying it was safe for use. Governor Rotimi Akeredolu on Wednesday took the first jab of the vaccine in Ondo State. The governor took the vaccine alongside with his deputy,  Mr Lucky Ayedatiwa, at the Governor’s Office, Akure. Also vaccinated were the Osewawe of Ondo Kingdom, Oba Victor Kiladejo and the Deji of Akure, Oba Aladetoyinbo Aladelusi, as well as other prominent people in the state. Akeredolu said, “The vaccination will be rolled out in phases; the first recipients will be front-line health workers, COVID-19 rapid response team, laboratory network, petrol station workers and the policemen. “In the phase two, the recipients will be ​older adults aged 50 years and above; those with co-morbidities aged 18-49 years.” In Ekiti, Governor Dr Kayode Fayemi said on Wednesday that the government had put in place measures that would ensure that Ekiti residents had equitable access to the COVID-19 vaccine. The governor spoke in Ado Ekiti after taking the vaccine, along with his deputy, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi; and some frontline health workers. The governor’s wife, Bisi Fayemi; Speaker of the House of Assembly, Funminiyi Afuye; the Attah of Aiyede Ekiti, Oba Abdulmumin Orisagbemi; and the Permanent Secretary, Hospital Management Board and COVID-19 Case Management Lead, Dr Williams Afolabi; were among those who also received the jab on Wednesday. Fayemi said, “The National Food Drugs Administration and Control has subjected the vaccines to multiple tests and affirmed that they are not injurious in any form to the people. This explains why the vaccines have been made available to Nigerians to fight this killer disease.” Similarly, the Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, his deputy, Benedict Alabi, and the wife of the governor, Kafayat Oyetola, on Wednesday took the AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine. The vaccine was administered on the governor by the Chief Medical Director, Osun State University Teaching Hospital, Osogbo, Prof. Peter Olaitan, at the Oke-Fia, Osun  Government House, Osogbo. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Ismail Omipidan, quoted Oyetola as saying, “With this, we are beginning to see the end of Covid-19. I encourage Osun citizens and residents to register and present themselves for vaccination.” In the same vein, the Nasarawa State Governor, Abdullahi Sule, alongside his deputy, Dr Emmanuel Akabe, publicly took the vaccine. The governor and Akabe, who were vaccinated at the Government House on Wednesday, urged residents to continue to use their face masks, pending the administration of the second dose. Also in Kaduna State, Governor Nasir El-Rufai and his deputy, Dr Hadiza Balarabe received their first doses of the vaccine at the Sir Kashim Ibrahim Government House Clinic. The governor promised to make himself visible in the coming days to show that the vaccine had no negative effect. El-Rufai said, “I am going to Abuja now where am going to attend meetings but I will be posting on social media so that they know that I don’t have headache or stomach ache, and I am fine.  I encourage everyone in Kaduna State to take it.” Also in Niger State, Governor Abubakar Bello on Wednesday received the vaccine at the Council Chamber alongside his deputy and members of the state executive council. He said, “Although no one is scared of being vaccinated, but everyone is concerned about the vaccine. We have no choice but to receive it because the Commissioner of Health and the Executive Director NSPHDA insist.” Earlier, the Commissioner of Health, Dr Muhammad Makunsidi, said that the state received 74,110 doses which would be given to one per cent if the estimated population of Niger State. States get vaccine doses Meanwhile more states, including Bauchi and Kano, on Wednesday received Oxford – AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine doses The Executive Chairman, Bauchi State Primary Health Care Development Agency, Dr Rilwan Mohammed, handed over 80,570 doses received from the National Primary Health Care Development Agency to the Deputy Governor, Baba Tela, at the state cold store in the  Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University Teaching Hospital on Wednesday. Tela, who is also the Bauchi State Chairman of the Task Force on COVID-19, said, “We want to assure the Federal Government that they will be administered to the frontline health workers because they are the first contact with the COVID-19 patients and there is a need to protect them.” Similarly, the Kano State Governor, Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, on Wednesday said the state had received 209,520 doses of the vaccine. He said, ‘’Once we succeed in this vaccination, I think we would say goodbye to COVID-19 like we said bye to poliomyelitis and many other diseases.’’ In Plateau State, the Commissioner for Health, Dr Nimkong Lar, said the government received 105,600 doses from the Federal Government Lar said, “The doses so far received are for the vaccination of residents. The exercise will begin as soon as we get the approval date from the governor, who is going to be the first person to be vaccinated, and thereafter, others will follow.” In Adamawa State, the Secretary to the State government, Mallam Bashir Adamawa, confirmed the receipt of 59,000 doses of the vaccine. Bashir added that the state had concluded plans to start the vaccination on Monday, March 15, 2021. Similarly, the Cross River State Commissioner for Health Dr Betta Edu, on Wednesday received 53,840 doses of the vaccine from the Federal Government. She said “We have just received the COVID-19 vaccine for Cross River at the Margret Ekpo International Airport.” Similarly, the Kwara State Government in a statement by Mosebolatan Olayemi, the Press Secretary in the State Primary Health Care Development Agency, on Wednesday said it received its consignment of vaccine from the Federal Government on Tuesday. Likewise, Enugu State on Wednesday received its share of the vaccine. On hands to receive the vaccines were Commissioner for Health, Professor Ikechukwu Obi, members of the Enugu State Primary Health Care Development Agency, officials of the World Health Organisation, and government officials. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  