The police have begun investigation into the shooting of I5-year-old girl, Omolayo Adaranijo while awaiting a commercial motorcycle with her mother, 45-year-old Omolayo Adaranijo. The single mother on Friday narrated how a gunman shot her daughter beside her on a street in Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital, on Wednesday. Adaranijo said the incident had left her in trauma and confined her daughter, a senior secondary school 3 pupil, to bed at the Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital, Ado Ekiti. The woman said, “We (my daughter and I) were at Basiri junction in Ado Ekiti around 7.56pm on that day. We were awaiting a commercial motorbike to take us to Ifesowapo, Better Life, where I live, when a man suddenly alighted from motorbike and opened fire on my daughter. He shot her four times. The man immediately mounted the waiting motorbike and fled the scene. “My daughter fell and blood started oozing out from her breast, stomach and arms where the pellets pierced her body deeply. It took the intervention of some good Samaritans to rush her to the EKSUTH. “The doctors and nurses on duty at the Emergency Section did a good job. If not, I had already presumed her death. They quickly worked on her and removed the pellets from her stomach, breast and arms.” Adaranijo, who said that she didn’t have any issue with anyone and cannot say why anyone would want to kill her daughter, said, “I want this matter investigated thoroughly so that the perpetrator can be brought to justice.” She said that the family had spent over N150, 000 borrowed from people to pay for her daughter’s hospital bill and still indebted to the hospital. The state police spokesperson, Sunday Abutu, who confirmed the incident, said investigation would unveil the mystery behind the shooting. Abutu said, “Investigations have begun into the incident. We are looking at all the possibilities and every angle to the case. We need to get to the root of why the gunman targeted such a young girl. We are assuring the public that the perpetrator won’t escape justice.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   