Deji Lambo The family of late Elijah Popoola has accused doctors and nurses on duty at the Akodo General Hospital of negligence while attending to their son, who was rushed to the accident and emergency unit for treatment after an accident on the Lekki-Epe Expressway of Lagos State. PUNCH Metro gathered that Elijah, an automobile mechanic, and his colleague, Kingsley Nkenchor, were test-driving a car on the road when they suddenly rammed into an SUV around the Eleko area. In a bid to rescue Elijah and Kingsley, it was learnt that a good Samaritan, who witnessed the accident, immediately rushed them to the Akodo General Hospital for urgent treatment on Monday, February 22, 2021. Speaking to PUNCH Metro, Elijah’s brother, Imole, said the 27-year-old was shoddily treated at the hospital, adding that he died while being rushed to another general hospital on the Lagos Island. He said, “After repairing a vehicle at their workshop, Elijah and Kingsley went for a test-drive; my brother drove the car on their way out of the company, but on their way back, his colleague drove it and rammed into another vehicle around Eleko. A good Samaritan rushed them to the Akodo General Hospital, where the both of them were admitted. “His colleague, who sustained minor injuries, survived but my brother died. Before he died, he was administered a drip and was later transferred to the Lagos State General Hospital on the Lagos Island. My brother’s boss, Mr Napoleon Agbelogode, and manager, Oke Onowighose, were with him throughout until he died and Napoleon said the doctor at the second hospital condemned the treatment given to my brother at the Akodo General Hospital. “My brother was not properly stabilised before he was referred to another hospital. His arm and laps were broken and he also sustained an injury in the head. The case was reported at the Elemoro Police Station.” When contacted, Elijah’s boss, Napoleon, said the hospital could not provide an ambulance to convey him to the General Hospital on the island, adding that despite his critical condition, nurses at the hospital declined to accompany him to the second hospital. He stated, “I will not deny that the Akodo doctors and nurses had some issues with care. That place is not a general hospital; I am saying this based on the fact that we had to buy everything, including bandages, used in treating Elijah. My manager was the one running around to buy everything from outside the hospital. “When he was referred to the General Hospital in Lagos, they said an ambulance to convey him there was not working. When we questioned the ambulance driver, he said the engine was bad and would certainly not get to Lagos Island. We asked for an alternative and the ambulance driver said he had somebody, who had a van, and after hiring the van, we asked a nurse to accompany us as a caregiver to monitor Elijah’s condition but they declined. “By the time we got to the hospital on Lagos Island, the doctor pronounced Elijah dead. The doctor was very moved and said if additional care had been taken, it might not have resulted in his death. He noted that Elijah should have been giving blood transfusion, knowing that he was haemorrhaging internally as he had head trauma, broken bones in the lap and a fractured wrist. The doctors and nurses at the Akodo General Hospital didn’t do the best they could have done.” Calls made to the Public Relations Officer, state Ministry of Health, Tunbosun Ogunbanwo, were unanswered. He had yet to respond to a text message sent to his mobile phone as of the time of filing this report. When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi, said, “The Divisional Police Officer has confirmed that we have a case like that. When the accident happened, the boy was rushed to hospital and when he died, the family came to request for a police report for the burial rites and the report was issued to them.”Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 