Lara Adejoro Women who live with polycystic ovary syndrome have recounted their experience. They note that they have suffered from various medical experiences that range from irregular menstruation to unwieldy weight gain and struggles with fertility, among others. One of the respondents,Mrs. Abimbola,said that by her mid-20s, she was menstruating only once or twice a year. “I gained weight so easily, I often joked that I could gain weight just from breathing. “Facial hairs became prominent in my late 20s and my voice got huskier. Often, I need to correct people on the phone that I am not a man,” she said. Six years ago, Abimbola was diagnosed with polycystic ovary syndrome —a condition commonly linked to an irregular menstrual period that occurs in women of reproductive age. The Clinical Director, Androcare Fertility Clinic, Dr. Adeleke Daramola, said that PCOS is one of the common causes of ovulatory problems after hyperprolactinemia — a condition of elevated serum prolactincharacterised by infertility, irregular periods, change in menstrual flow, pause in menstrual cycle, loss of libido, lactation (galactorrhea), pain in breasts, and vaginal dryness. Women with PCOS also experience back pain, sleep apnea, easy tiredness. The cause of polycystic ovary syndrome is not known, experts say, warning that it is linked to genetic predisposition. “In Nigeria, there’s no definite prevalence rate of the condition among women but averagely, three in 10 women who come to the clinic for infertility problems most likely will have polycystic ovary syndrome. So, it’s actually common in Nigeria,” Daramola said. Though experts say there is no cure for the condition, they note that medical assistance and healthy lifestyle can improve patients’ wellbeing. Untreated polycystic ovary syndrome can lead to complications such as type 2 diabetes, miscarriage in pregnancy, and endometrial cancer; “But, with early diagnosis and treatment, women with PCOS rarely develop complications and the complications can be prevented,” he added. Mrs. Abimbola stated that of all her symptoms, the most worrisome was amenorrhea — absence of menstruation. “My mum was greatly worried; she asked me to take all sorts of hormone tests. But I didn’t do them since I was not in any long-standing relationship. “Anyway, I didn’t really miss the periods myself. But the weight gain gave- and still gives me issues,” she said. A Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist, Dr. Oluseyi Adelekan, noted that having a hairy chest and beards alone does not mean a woman has polycystic ovary syndrome. Adelekan said to determine if a woman has polycystic ovary syndrome, an expert has to check for at least two symptoms of the condition, as 80 percent of women with polycystic ovary syndrome are overweight or obese. “It has also been found to be hereditary and it’s also associated with insulin resistance. Insulin is a major hormone that helps with the maintenance of glucose in the body. If it’s high and the body is also resistant to it, it’s associated with polycystic ovary syndrome,” Adelekan said. To continue reading this story and more, click here Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 