Matthew Ochei, Asaba The former President, Goodluck Jonathan, on Friday, called for synergy among the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), governors, security chiefs, and other stakeholders to tackle insecurity in the country. The former president explained that synergy was needed to de-escalate tension occasioned by the challenge of insecurity in the country. He lamented that it was unfortunate that school children and many Nigerians were being kidnapped for ransom by bandits. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Security agents, parents, youths clash over freed Zamfara schoolgirls Jonathan said, “I believe that with the commitment of the governors and the Federal Government, we will be able to address the issue of security in the country. “I believe that the President himself is not sleeping and that the governors are not sleeping as well over the insecurity challenge in the country. “As long as the governors, the President, and all the security agencies can work together, Nigeria will be able to cross over this very ugly phase of societal evolution.” [READ ALSO] #EndSARS: Destruction won’t help Lagos, Tinubu tells youths The ex-president said that the rumour of his interest to run for the 2023 presidential election was a speculation Jonathan, who stated this when he paid a condolence visit to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa at Government House, Asaba, over the recent demise of Sir Okorie Okowa, pledged to continue to serve God, humanity, Africa to the best of his ability. He said, “On the rumour of my interest in the 2023 presidential election, it was mere speculation. “I will continue to serve God, humanity, Africa, and the world to the best of my ability and with all sense of commitment and sincerity.” READ ALSO: Senate queries 55 vehicles allegedly missing from federal ministry The former President commiserated with the governor on the passage of his father and urged him and his siblings to continue to promote their father’s enviable records as a way to immortalise him. Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, who thanked the former president for identifying with the family on the passage of their patriarch, said that they were consoled by the fact that their father died in Christ. “We appreciate your fatherly role even within our own South-South region and I must actually use this opportunity to thank you for the establishment of the Maritime University in Okerenkoko because that actually did bring peace to us as a state,” Okowa added