Rotimi Adesanya Pandemics in general have been known to cause depression, anxiety, fear of death, fear of losing loved ones, and post-traumatic stress disorder. Similarly, current research reports that a great number of people experience negative psychological conditions due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Intense fear of coronavirus is evident in the literature as well as in the media, as one particular study reported suicides related to COVID-19 and other media sources reported that multiple individuals lost their lives since they did not seek medical treatment for their non-COVID-19 related illness due to fear of contracting the virus at the hospital. Although COVID-19 does appear to be more serious than influenza, it is absolutely not the deadliest virus that people have faced. Others, such as Ebola, Bubonic Plague, Smallpox, and many others have had much higher mortality rates. A phobia is an anxiety disorder characterized by persistent, excessive, unrealistic fear of an object, person, animal, activity or situation. A phobia is also an irrational fear of something that leads to erratic behaviour, much of the fear associated with COVID-19 may be justified especially because it is a potentially life-threatening disease. Coronaphobia is an excessive triggered response of fear of contracting the virus causing COVID-19, leading to accompanied excessive concern over physiological symptoms, significant stress about personal and occupational loss, increased reassurance and safety seeking behaviors, and avoidance of public places and situations, causing marked impairment in daily life functioning. The definition implies three essential components which reinforces the process of fear: Physiological: The fight or flight response of fear is triggered, on being exposed to antecedent event. Constant worry can cause symptoms such as palpitations, tremors, difficulty in breathing, dizziness, change in appetite, and sleep. Cognitive: Fear of virus would involve preoccupation with threat provoking cognitions, e.g. ‘I will die if I contract the virus, ‘I will not be able to go to my job and will be unemployed’;. The cognitions may further trigger emotional responses, like sadness, guilt, and anger. Behavioral: In order to prevent the consequences, individuals engage in avoidance behaviors. There is marked fear of using public transportation, touching any surface, being at open places (markets, beaches, stadiums) and at enclosed places (hotels, shopping malls, movie theatres, indoor stadiums), attending any public gatherings, and standing in queue. The individual fears and/or avoids situations like meeting people or overindulges into health-related safety behaviors (like washing hands). Reassurance behaviors such as constantly checking body vitals, confirming absence of illness, self-medicating or rechecking sanitation perpetuates fear, leading to phobia. Fear, worry, and stress are normal responses to perceived or real threats, and at times when we are faced with uncertainty or the unknown. It is normal and understandable that people are experiencing fear in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. Added to the fear of contracting the virus in a pandemic such as COVID-19 are the significant changes to our daily lives as our movements are restricted in support of efforts to contain and slow down the spread of the virus. Faced with new realities of working from home, temporary unemployment, home-schooling of children, and lack of physical contact with other family members, friends and colleagues, it is important that we look after our mental, as well as our physical, health. Triggers: In this present pandemic, many people are not be infected but many people are affected. The triggers of Coronaphobia involve situations or people involving probability of virus contraction, such as, meeting people, leaving house, travelling, reading the updates or news, falling ill or going for work outside. Coping with Coronaphobia In conclusion, to prevent the spread of COVID-19 lets continue to clean our hands often using soap and water, or an alcohol-based hand rub. Maintaining a safe distance from others (at least one metre apart) and wearing masks are essential in this present time. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 