Lanre Balogun Driver with the ride-hailing platform, Uber, Lawal Oluwatosin,  in Ibadan, Oyo State, has been sentenced to a three-month prison term by the state High Court over N19,000 ($50) internet fraud. In a picture shared on the verified Twitter handle of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, the bright smile of the convict cannot be missed and this has generated mixed reactions on social media. The Court sitting on Monday, March 8, presided over by Justice M. Odegbola sentenced Lawal after he pleaded guilty to the charge bordering on obtaining money by false pretence brought against him by the EFCC. The charge read, “That you, Michael Tosin Lawal ‘M’ sometimes in the year 2020, in Ibadan Oyo State, within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court, with intent to defraud, obtained Gift Cards from one Trevor, a white male by falsely representing to him that you are a white female by the name Cyndy Tyler from the United States of America, which pretence you knew to be false.” The court also ordered Lawal to restitute the money to his victim through the EFCC. However, the mugshot of the smiling convict has attracted comments on social media with many wondering why he expressed delight despite conviction. READ ALSO: Student helped by Davido graduates with first class A tweep, @Samson21561721, wrote, “This guy just dey laugh enter prison…make dem dey supervise the prison well e fit get mission for prison talking from the movie I watched, Gold Statue.” Though hilarious, another tweep by the name, @KeansoLala stated, “You sure say this guy never scam EFCC because Baba dey use dem catch cruise.” But @simpulawrence thinks the correctional centre will only harden him and recommended community service instead. He said, “Prison will only make him more of a hardened criminal. Community service is better.” Ayodele Adebanjo said, “I’m sure this guy thinks it’s the Guinness world record award. Can someone tell him the meaning of what he’s holding and he’s going to jail for it? “This is madness. Sentencing a guy who stole $50 gift card which is not even up to 12k to prison. Are you people trying to correct him or put him in prison so that he can gather more crazy knowledge from those top criminals? EFCC your shame is shaming me. “When amnesties are given to those that integrated war and blood testy bandits. You left the main yahoo Pappas in the top position because they are the ones paying your salaries,” Emmanuel Ethical said.