The widespread devastation caused by the ongoing COVID19 pandemic has reinforced the need to improve the health sector of Nigeria (and the world at large). Nile University of Nigeria has heeded this call as illustrated by its recent investment in a top-notch facility in Asokoro to upscale its College of Health Sciences and further improve the quality of healthcare education provided to the students in the College. Boasting an array of attractive programs—including Medicine & Surgery (MBBS), B.Sc. Human Anatomy, B.Sc. Physiology, and MPH Public Health— Nile University’s robust College of Health Sciences is designed to provide a world-class healthcare education to students to equip them to come up with groundbreaking innovations in the medical field. To achieve this, the University has invested significantly in state-of-the-art laboratories—such as the clinical skills lab, physiology lab, human anatomy museum, pharmacology lab, among others—to provide students with the ideal settings for the practical application of their theoretical knowledge. Further underlining Nile University’s status as one of the premier providers of medical education in the country is the high-profile accreditation it gained from the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria (MDCN) for the Basic Medical Science aspect of its MBBS program. Nile University’s partnership with the nationally renowned Nizamiye and Asokoro hospitals ensures that its medical students enjoy access to world-class equipment and some of the most skilled Nigerian and expatriate healthcare professionals in the country during their clinicals. Nile University’s membership of the Honoris United Universities network, the first and largest pan-African private higher education network, has created more opportunities for the expansion and improvement of its College of Health Sciences. For starters, Nile’s access to Honoris’ vast international experience in medical education (through collaborative intelligence) was instrumental in the University’s successful commencement of the Master of Public Health program during the ongoing 2020/2021 academic session. Similarly, Honoris’ commitment to investing in the infrastructural development of Nile University has facilitated the upscaling of the College of Health Sciences, as shown by the recent construction of an ultra-modern hostel close to the Asokoro District hospital to provide accommodation for the University’s medical students that are undergoing clinicals at the hospital. Commenting on the development, the Provost of Nile University’s College of Health Sciences, Prof. Dilli Dogo, stated: “The ongoing COVID19 crisis has re-emphasized the importance of the health industry and the need for us to develop it. With our recent construction of the student hostel in Asokoro, Nile University (and, by extension, Honoris United Universities) has, again, proved its commitment to equipping its medical students to make an impact in the country’s healthcare sector and beyond.” Admission is ongoing for the 2020/2021 academic session at Nile University of Nigeria. Interested students can apply online by visiting Nile University’s online application page at application.nileuniversity.edu.ng—the institution’s online application process is completely free.