Tony Okafor, Awka The South-East Chapter of the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria on Sunday alleged that no fewer than 21 herdsmen were missing in Anambra State from January till date. The Zonal Chairman of the association, Alhaji Gidado Siddiki, stated this at a press briefing in Awka, the Anambra State capital. He said a recent attack on members of the group took place at the Mohammed Idris Herder’s Settlement at Ogborji, in the Orumba South Local Government Area of the state on Saturday, where four herdsmen were allegedly killed and hundreds of cows missing. Siddiki identified the four victims as Hadari Umaru, Hamidu Umaru, Aliu Idris and Hassan Idris. “The four herders made it a total number of 21 of our members killed in the state between January and early March 2021,” he added. He said the police had recovered the corpse of one of the victims, while three others were still missing. According to him, two herders were killed in a similar manner in Ishiagu, in the Ivo LGA of Ebonyi State. Siddiki said, “Until the recent attacks, members of the Miyetti Allah Association had enjoyed cordial relationships with their host communities in the state and the entire South-East. “The Fulani people in the South-East are not violent and we are not here to undermine the business of the people of the area. We are here to transact business and not to foment trouble.” He called on the Anambra State government and traditional rulers to take action to stop further attacks on his members and condemned the way Fulani herdsmen were criminalised all over the country, saying the perception was exaggerated. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Haruna Mohammed, said the Commissioner of Police, Monday Karyas, has ordered investigation into the latest attack on herders in Orumba South and the perpetrators would be brought to justice. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  