Daud Olatunji The Ogun State Police Command has revealed how eight members of a family were arrested for the alleged kidnapping of eight people in the Sagamu area of state. Six members of the syndicate comprising the father, Oweniwe Okpara and three of his children: Samson Okpara, Bright Okpara and Eze Okpara as well as one Christian Ishaha and Emmanuel Joseph were paraded in Sagamu on Friday. READ ALSO: Rapist bags life imprisonment in Ondo, herdsmen remanded for murder The Ogun State Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi said the five suspects were apprehended in the Ajaka area of Sagamu for their roles in the kidnap of eight persons at different times in Sagamu and other areas. The other three children of Okpara said to be an armed squad, Godwin Okpara, Godspower Okpara and Mathew Okpara are in police custody in Delta State. Oyeyemi said, “In compliance with the Commissioner of Police’s directive, the Divisional Police Officer of Sagamu division CSP Okiki Agunbiade and his crack detectives with the support of Sagamu security council under Akarigbo of Remo land embarked on intelligence and technical based investigation, which led to the arrest of one Oweniwe Okpara from Delta state and three of his children: Samson Okpara, Bright Okpara and Eze Okpara as well as one Christian Ishaha who accommodated them.” One of the victims, a 53-year-old electronics dealer, Okechukwu Onwubiko kidnapped on June 4, 2020 said he regained freedom seven days after his family had paid N5m ransom. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Police deploy men as bandits kill 13 in Sokoto Also kidnapped was a pastor, Omotayo Sobowale, who runs a point of sale business, on June 16, 2020. He said his abductors collected N1m ransom before he was released after 24 hours. Other kidnap victims were Lamidi Akeem, Olufunke Areoye, Adijat Adeleye, Ashaye Olayinka and Demilade Sonuga. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 