Nile University of Nigeria recently gained approval from the National Universities Commission (NUC) to commence 19 new undergraduate and postgraduate programs for the 2020/2021 academic session. The programs are as follows: B.Sc. Architecture, B.Sc. Cyber Security, B.Sc. Psychology, BEng Mechatronics, B.Sc. Human Physiology, B.Sc. Human Anatomy, B.Sc. Marketing Management, B.Sc. Estate Management, MFE Financial Economics, MIR International Relations, MPH Public Health, MFA Accounting and Finance, M.Sc. Auditing/Forensic Management, MPhil Economics, MPhil Political Science, MPhil International and Diplomacy, MPhil Conflict, Peace & Strategic Studies, PhD Conflict, Peace & Strategic Studies, and PhD Industrial Chemistry. Speaking about the new programs, the Vice-Chancellor of Nile University, Prof. Osman Nuri Aras, stated that the new programs highlighted the University’s unyielding commitment to expanding its already robust course offering in response to the demands of students and changing realities in the society. According to him, “Our primary objective at Nile University is the provision of high-quality, relevant education to students to enable them to make significant positive contributions to the society or, as our motto states, ‘build your success for a better society.’ Part of achieving this goal entails paying attention to the demands of students, which is most often than not driven by the demands in the industry. With the addition of the new programs, Nile University has further enhanced its ability to equip students with the skills to solve current societal problems.” Echoing the Vice-Chancellor’s sentiment, Prof. Dilli Dogo (Provost, College of Health Sciences, Nile University) stated that the newly added courses, especially the Master of Public Health program, were proof of the University’s ability to adapt swiftly to changing realities. He had this to say: “In our ever-changing world, adaptability is important for Universities looking to produce graduates that are equipped to make an instant impact in the society. Nile University’s recent addition of the Master of Public Health to its College of Health Sciences, especially in the wake of the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, shows its responsiveness to the changes in the society.” In a similar vein, the Dean of Nile University’s Engineering Faculty, Prof. Steve A. Adeshina, stressed that the new programs were further evidence of the University’s dedication to equipping its students with vital 21st century skills. Prof. Adeshina remarked that in the current era of rapid technological advancement, it is imperative for universities to modify their curriculums and adopt programs, particularly in the STEM fields, that reflect these changes if they are to produce globally competitive graduates. In this regard, he continued, Nile University’s addition of Mechatronics Engineering to its Undergraduate course offerings is a vital step in giving its students an edge in the highly competitive labor market. According to Prof. Adeshina, “the line between Engineering fields like Mechanical, Electrical, and Computing is already blurred significantly, and will continue to be blurred even further as technology continues to rapidly advance. For instance, in the current era of smart devices, it is uncommon to see devices that are 100% electrical, mechanical, or computing in nature. The vast majority of these devices are a hybrid of electrical, mechanical, and computer Engineering. Thus, Engineers, such as Mechatronics Engineers, that possess knowledge of these various Engineering fields will continue to thrive in this climate.” Despite the excitement surrounding the NUC approval for the new programs, the Nile Vice-Chancellor was quick to note that the job was only half done. According to Prof. Aras, “gaining the approval of NUC to commence the new programs is only the beginning. Ensuring that the programs actually deliver on their promise of preparing students for success in their respective future endeavors is the real objective.” Fortunately, he continued, the University is well placed to achieve this goal thanks in no small part to its membership of Honoris United Universities, the first and largest pan-African private higher education network. With 14 institutions— including multidisciplinary universities, specialized schools, technical and vocational institutes— across Africa and more than 300 programs spanning the fields of Health Science, Engineering, IT, Business, Architecture, Political Science, to name a few, Honoris boasts significant regional and international experience in academia. As a member of Honoris United Universities, Nile University is uniquely positioned to leverage the network’s vast expertise to develop curricula that facilitates the delivery of top-notch education to its students that equips them to be globally competitive. For students seeking to take advantage of the numerous benefits promised by Nile University’s newly approved programs, the good news is that the University is still accepting applications for the 2020/2021 academic session. This provides students that are yet to apply another opportunity to commence their degree program as early as March 2021 (when the new semester starts). Interested students can apply online by visiting Nile University’s online application page at application.nileuniversity.edu.ng—the institution’s online application process is completely free.