Friday Olokor, Abuja THE Chairman, Independent National Electoral Commission, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, on Monday, promised to use the 2023 general elections to set the standard for future polls. Yakubu made the promise during a meeting with Resident Electoral Commissioners, at the INEC Headquarters, Abuja. As part of measures to make this possible, he gave RECs one week within which to compile and submit an inventory of all election materials in their custody, to enable the commission make better arrangements especially where there were shortfalls. He said, “As you are also aware, the commission is committed to deepening the culture of planning for elections. The current five-year plan covering the period 2017-2021 expires this year. “For this reason, a committee involving the participation of some RECs was inaugurated a few weeks ago to review the Strategic Plan and the Strategic Programme of Action to cover the next cycle of five years from 2022-2026. “The committee is making good progress. Its report should be submitted by the end of this month to enable the commission to engage stakeholders for its validation and subsequent implementation. “I want to assure Nigerians that this will be accomplished long before the expiry of the current plan at the end of this year. As we continue to plan for the next general election, the RECs have been directed to compile and submit an inventory of all election materials in order to determine shortfalls and take early steps to ensure their adequacy and availability. “Only a few states are still outstanding. I wish to remind the states that are yet to make their submissions to do so by the end of this week. This will enable us to address some of the logistics issues that have become a recurring decimal in the conduct of elections in the past. “The 2023 general election must be different from all previous elections in terms of our preparations and readiness.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   