THE Chief Justice of Nigeria, Hon. Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad, over the weekend, led 18 Justices of the Supreme Court to pay condolence visit to the family of the late Justice Nwali Sylvester Ngwuta, who died on March 7, 2021. Other officials who accompanied the Justices during the visit to Nguta’s residence in Abuja are the Chief Registrar, Hadizatu Mustapha and some management staff of the Supreme Court. A statement issued on Sunday by the Senior Special Assistant (Media) to the CJN, Ahuraka Isah, indicated that the CJN and other Justices were received by Justice Ngwuta’s cousin, identified as Chief Nwali; his brother, Stephen Ngwuta and his daughter, Chidera Ngwuta. During the visit, the CJN stated that it was not an avenue for long speeches, being a sad occasion and so he was brief. He described the late jurist as a complete gentleman who won’t hurt anyone. “He was highly dedicated to his duty and would definitely be missed by many people. May His Lordship’s soul rest in peace and may God Almighty continue to protect and provide for the family he left behind,” he said. Responding on behalf of the family, Chief Nwali thanked the CJN and the Supreme Court for their support, saying the apex court had been taking care of the deceased from the day he fell sick, both physically and financially until his demise. “Up till date, the court has been supportive of the family as regards arrangements leading to the burial of the deceased. We pray for the delegation, just as we will forever be grateful for the kindness and support extended by the court,” Nwali said. His Lordship, the CJN subsequently signed the condolence register on behalf of himself and his brother Justices. Justice Ngwuta, who was due to retire from the Supreme Court bench on attaining the mandatory retirement age of 70 years on March 30, 2021, died on March 7, 2021 by 2.30am. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 