The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry has called for an independent dispute resolution framework to deal with disputes arising from valuation and HS classification between the Nigeria Customs Service and the business community. The Director General, LCCI, Dr Muda Yusuf made the call on Sunday in a statement titled ‘Urgent need for an independent dispute resolution framework between the customs service and the business community’. He requested President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to intervene by setting up an independent appeal mechanism to deal with the disputes, which he said could be done within the framework of an executive order. He noted that a presidential intervention had become inevitable to restore the confidence of investors in the international trade process, especially with the onset of the African Continental Free Trade Area. According to Yusuf, managing disputes with the NCS is one of the most distressing encounters experienced by investors in the Nigerian economy and is hurting investment as well as weakening investors’ confidence. The DG said the country’s international trade process lacked an independent, credible, and prompt appeal mechanism, adding that the NCS had a weak trade facilitation culture and an absence of customer service orientation. He said many companies had been compelled to pay outrageous additional charges on imports, thus distorting their investment plans and projections. According to him, this disposition is hurting investment, frustrating trade, and creating a negative investment sentiment. LCCI stated, “Importers are left entirely at the mercy of the customs in the absence of a credible, independent window for dispute settlement between the customs and the private sector. Under the present arrangement, the Customs Service is the accuser and the judge. “This mechanism is unfair to investors and not consistent with the principles of natural justice. It is a disincentive to domestic and foreign investment; it creates uncertainty and aggravates investment risk, it undermines economic diversification prospects, depresses capacity utilization, and limits the scope for job creation.” The DG noted that this was not consistent with the vision to make Nigeria a top investment destination and emphasized the need to ensure a balance between regulatory controls, revenue generation and trade facilitation functions of the NCS. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 