Dele Ogunyemi, Warri A suspected ritualist, Razaq Ifamaye, ‘m’, has confessed to being a member of the kidnapping syndicate that abducted one Joy Osameze, ‘f’ aged 39yrs, on 05/02/2021 on her way back from farm at Abraka Farm reserve Obiaruku. Razaq Ifamaye and other accomplices are currently in police net as investigation continues in the matter. Operatives of the Delta State Police Command had since arrested no fewer than eight suspects in connection with the kidnap incident. Disclosing this to journalists in a signed press statement on Wednesday, the state Commissioner of Police, Ari Mohammed Ali, affirmed that those initially arrested and transferred to the Special Anti-Kidnapping and Cyber Crimes Squad comprised Emmanuel Ojibe ‘m’, age 18yrs, Osam Ogolime, ‘m’, age 21yrs, Ossai Reuben ‘m’ age 22yrs, Odigili Chukwutem ‘m’ age 33yrs and Ukpaka Confidence ‘m’ age 20yrs. The CP noted that on 07/03/2021, the confession of one of the suspects, Emmanuel Ojibi, ‘m’, age 18yrs, led the SAKCCS operatives to the arrest of the trio of Razaq Ifamaye, ‘m’, age 38yrs, and Gbenga Olawuyi, ‘m’, age 50yrs both natives of Ekiti State but resident at Old Market Road, Obiaruku and one Samson Oduni, ‘m’, age 31yrs a native of Obiaruku. Consequently, the trio led police operatives of the Special Anti-Kidnapping and Cyber Crimes squad to Shegelo Beach, Obiaruku on 09/03/2021 at about 1615hrs where a Bagco Bag containing human skull and other human parts suspected to be that of kidnapped Joy Osameze, was recovered. The CP further stated that one Chikogwu Isaac, aka Ikuku, ‘m’, 38yrs, a native of Obiaruku, whose premises the exhibit was found, instigated four others, who are now at large, to attack the operatives in order to prevent/obstruct the operatives from making the recovery. He was however arrested and the exhibits taken to Agbor General Hospital for autopsy while investigation is ongoing. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   