Friday Olokor and Daud Olatunji The National Primary Healthcare Development Agency and United Nations Children’s Fund on Sunday said the vaccination of Nigerians against COVID-19 would start with frontline healthcare workers. The Executive Director of NPHCDA, Dr. Faisal Shuaib and UNICEF Country Representative In Nigeria, Peter Hawkins, who stated this in a joint statement,  said Nigeria had planned to vaccinate at least 70 per cent of eligible Nigerians aged 18 years and above in four phases within two years. The primary health care agency assured  Nigerians that Nigeria  had  facilities to store the vaccine. Sunday PUNCH had reported that Nigeria was scheduled to take delivery of 3.92 million doses of the COVID-19 vaccine on Tuesday. According to the NPHCDA and UNICEF, the delivery will  mark the first arrival of COVID-19 vaccine in the country and make Nigeria the next West African country to benefit from the COVAX facility after Ghana and Cote d’Ivoire. The arrival of the vaccine would enable the NPHCDA to commence the vaccination of Nigerians in priority groups, starting with the frontline healthcare workers. Shuaib said, “The arrival of this vaccine is the result of the commitment of the Federal Government of Nigeria, under the leadership of His Excellency, President Muhammandu Buhari, the support of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 and the guidance of the  Minister of Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire. “We are fully prepared to receive and deliver the vaccine to eligible Nigerians as we have commenced the training of health workers and ensured that cold chain facilities are ready at all levels. We have a robust cold chain system that can store all types of COVID-19 vaccine in accordance with the required temperature. “We are therefore confident that we will have a very effective roll-out of the vaccine, starting with our critical healthcare workers, who are in the frontline in providing the care we all need.” Hawkins said, “The COVAX Facility has worked exceptionally hard to ensure that Nigeria gets the vaccine as soon as possible so it can start its vaccination programme to the largest population in Africa.” The Representative of World Health Organisation in Nigeria, Dr Walter Kazadi Mulombo, said, “Vaccines are a critical tool in the battle against COVID-19. In the meantime, Nigerians must continue to take steps to contain the virus, as the vaccination programme will take at least a year before it is fully effective.” The delivery of the AstraZeneca vaccine is part of an overall 16 million doses planned to be delivered to Nigeria in batches  by the COVAX Facility, as part of an unprecedented global effort to ensure equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines. But a former president of  National Association of Nigerian Nurses and Midwives, AbdulRauf Adeniji, has described the 3.9million doses of COVID-19 vaccine as grossly inadequate. AbdulRauf Adeniji said this on Sunday while speaking with one of our correspondents on the plan by the Federal Government to vaccinate health workers first. Adeniji said the 3.9milliin vaccines would not be adequate for the health workers both from private and public  in the country . He however lauded the  gesture of the government on the procurement of the vaccines, saying, it is part of the measures to get rid of the virus. He said “the vaccine is important in the fight against COVID-19. It forms a pillar that has been  missing of all the preventive measures and is going to fill the gap of building the body immunity to ensure that we keep the virus away from the body system.” On the decision to first vaccinate the health workers, Adeniji said, “As regard the decision and policy of the government to first vaccinate and immunize the health workers, this is just in conformity with the global trend and what we can say here is that when you want to fight a war, then, you  take care of the combatants you want to use to fight the war. “3.9 million doses just far less the cry of  what we need in Nigeria  and if we start from  the health workers, maybe, pending the time they get more, health workers in Nigeria are more than 3.9m generally. Because, when you talk about health workers in Nigeria, you have to consider those in the private and in the public, even those who are in the missionary hospitals altogether that is one .” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   