John Alechenu and Umar Mohammed AN aspirant for the position of National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Mr. Malik Abdul, has challenged the party’s youths to step up and take the party to the next level. Abdul who spoke to reporters in Abuja, on Sunday, said it would be an indictment on APC youths to allow the party fizzle out when the tenure of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), ends in 2023. The aspirant scored the Buhari-led regime high in terms of performance since assuming office in 2015. He said, “In terms of monetary value through social development and interventions programs, they have spent up to N3 trillion. It has never been done before in the history of this country. “It is a deliberate policy of the APC government that brought all these. And you can see, the N-power, survival funds and this is a party policy to help the citizens overcome challenges. Everyone knows what Covid-19 caused. “It is for us to now build on this legacy. If President Buhari goes and the party goes, it will be an indictment to the youths of this country.” Also, Nasarawa State Governor, Abdullahi Sule, while speaking on the issue of a new APC national chairman, urged the APC to consider his predecessor, Senator Tanko Al-Makura, for the plum job. He made the appeal during a grand reception in honour of members of opposition parties who joined the APC in Keffi, on Sunday. Several opposition figures from the Peoples Democratic Party, the All Progressives Grand Alliance and Zenith Labour Party, dumped their parties to join the APC in the Western Senatorial Zone. Sule said, “Two of the legacy parties, ACN and ANPP each produced two national chairmen of the APC. The only legacy party that is yet to produce the national chairman is the CPC.” According to him, once the CPC is allowed to produce the next chairman of the APC during its forthcoming national convention, it’s only fair to consider Nasarawa State. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 