Dayo Ojerinde The Minister of State for Health, Dr Olorunimbe Mamora, says he was absent at the vaccination of Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 members because of his official engagement in Lagos. While stating that the PTF was aware of his itinerary, Mamora stated that his absence should not be misconstrued as a deliberate attempt to avoid being vaccinated. READ ALSO: Lagos leads vaccine allocation with 507,000 doses, FCT 219,800, Katsina 160,000 Addressing newsmen during the unveiling of the Next Generation Sequencing at Nigeria Institute of Medical Research, Yaba, on Monday, the minister explained that he was unable to participate at the weekly briefing because of the engagement. “Let nobody speculate that Mamora is running away from vaccination. I am not afraid because I am not one of the peddlers of conspiracy theories. I am a strong advocate of vaccines,” he said. The Director-General of the Nigerian Institute of Medical Research, Prof. Babatunde Salako, said although vaccines were now available around the world, the continuous mutation of the virus forming new strains and variants of concern had made the development of new vaccines inevitable. “The importance of the next-generation sequencing machine in this era of COVID-19 pandemic cannot be overemphasised. The world has grappled with one of the highest mortalities and morbidity incidences in the history of mankind. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Too early to determine decline in coronavirus infection – NCDC “Furthermore, the ability of the SARS-COV-2 virus to mutate by changing its dynamics and possibly evade available vaccines and therapeutics have put the world under pressure to conduct massive parallel sequencing of the virus is making vital public health decision,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com