Jennifer Oyelade is an author and recruitment specialist. She tells TOFARATI IGE about her new book, career development and other issues The title of your book, ‘Careerectional Facility’, is a coinage from the words, ‘career’ and ‘correctional facility’. What is the relationship between those two words and career development? The title of my book, Careerectional Facility, is a play on words between career and correctional facility― the prison we put ourselves in the quest for career fulfilment by believing there are certain rules and processes that we need to follow to get there. The truth is – there are no rules! There is no template, format or structured way because every journey is unique to an individual. We have all been given different advice on how to secure a job or how to move up the career ladder at some point in our lives. The book dissects this and educates the reader that the process is not a one size fits all. There are so many myths that have been instilled, and this book rewrites the wrongs of professional identification educating professionals on how to determine their own career path, on their own terms, at their own pace. After all, a masterpiece is created, not birthed. Was there any particular event that inspired you to write the book? I actually never saw myself as an author. I just knew I could talk and provide insight to those who sought my input. As I progressed in my career, I have been blessed to meet and work with a diverse pool of professionals across the United Kingdom, Europe, Middle East and Africa. So, I picked up my pen, but later dropped it. I started a few times and scrapped it. Why? Because I did not want to write just to become an ‘author’ by trend. However, at the same time, my spirit was making me uncomfortable. It felt like I was being selfish with the talent God had blessed me with. Having been on both sides of the interview table― as a candidate, employee, employer, and a hiring manager―I took my time to consolidate my experience and write this book from a multifaceted perspective to ensure that it provides insights that would still be relevant 10 years from now. You stated that this book aims to ‘rewrite the wrongs of professional identification’. Could you expatiate on that? Rewriting the wrongs really means to debunk the ideologies that we have been told on the path to career success. What may work for you will not necessarily work for me. The book strips them back and focuses on the realities of career development, and how to implement it on one’s unique career journey while one unlearns to relearn. What do you think are the major mistakes young people make as regards career advancement? There are so many, but I’ll touch on four frequent mistakes that are being made First is that, they underestimate the power of social recruitment and social media misconduct. Social recruitment is real. Social media has become a leading method of talent acquisition, taking over from traditional methods such as advertising on job boards and searching databases. Recruiters want to know what the Curriculum Vitae does not say to make more informed hiring decisions, so they search your name on Google, and visit your Facebook, Instagram and Twitter pages.  Though you may look good on paper, as a hiring manager, I want to know if your personality imbibes the culture of my organisation. While I think everyone should be ‘human’ on social media, I believe in the social media engagement mantra ― you don’t get a second chance to make a first impression and the Internet never forgets. Be intentional and cautious about your content. If you are unsure of whether or not you would want your boss, potential employer, employee or colleagues to see your post, the safest option is not to post it at all. The second is applying for roles that you do not have experience for. Deep down as an applicant, you know that you would not be shortlisted for the role because you don’t meet the criteria, so why apply? It is a waste of both your time and the recruiters’. Focus on roles that fit your current expertise. By applying for roles that you are technically not suited for, you are only setting yourself up for unnecessary disappointment. So, build your morale by fine tuning your expertise to be a specialist in your craft and apply for jobs that fit your career aspirations. Thirdly, creating CV’s full of buzzwords in an attempt to beat an Applicant Tracking System, is a complete myth. Roles are not defined by buzzwords. There are certain skill sets or systems that may be essential for a role that only those internal hiring managers would deem fit as search-worthy indicators. Creating a CV that says ‘software developer’ 15 times or writing JavaScript 20 times does not necessarily mean that your CV would be at the top of a search result. The hiring manager may use words such ‘jQuery’, or’ Django’, which are JavaScript frameworks that are used by JavaScript Developers to develop software. Focus on your core experience, use descriptive adjectives to describe your responsibilities and your achievements. The key is quality of content over the quantity of buzzwords. Lastly, lack of preparation. Some candidates have great experience. They get called for an interview but do not adequately prepare. We are in a time where everything is available online, so research the organisation you are interviewing for and make notes of some valid points to use to impress the interviewer to show that you are not just looking for any job but are particularly interested in growing with that brand. Research the interviewer, using sites such as LinkedIn, to give you an insight into the interviewer and see if there is any synergy that you can find between you that you can leverage on in your interview. Come up with at least five well thought out questions to ask your interviewer. It shows adequate planning, genuine interest and most importantly, competence. The COVID-19 pandemic caused a lot of disruptions globally. How can entrepreneurs take advantage of that? By adapting a solution-based methodology and service to their current business models. In the midst of this crisis, there are certain sectors that were not hit as hard, such as fast moving consumer goods, agriculture, healthcare, transportation/logistics and supply chain. Even if the economy is at a standstill, we still need to maintain a standard of living and as a result, there will still be consumers who will engage with businesses for their core necessities. The difference is that there will not be any excessive expenditure. This is a time where innovation needs to take permanence in the way we drive our economy forward and it begins with entrepreneurs who understand the concept of adaptation, versatility, resilience and the possibility of running an unstructured business successfully in a structured environment. Many people lost their jobs amidst the pandemic. What advice do you have for such people? They should develop a diverse pallet of cross functional expertise. Employers want cross-functional candidates with skill sets they can utilise to the fullest. They are looking for professionals who can adapt and understand that their roles can diversify according to the economic wave and as a result, their roles may require them to wear many hats. Cross-functional employees do not veer from their core discipline. They are a definition of those who have imbibed at least one skill set in what I call the HOIST sectors. The dictionary definition of ‘hoist’ is the act of raising or lifting something, but in terms of sought-after skills, HOIST stands for Human Resources, Operations, Information such as Data or Information Systems, Sales and Technology; and also Finance. These are the only sectors that are recession-proof and skills developed within these areas will always be sought-after.  Regardless of the sector you find yourself in, be it hospitality, healthcare, manufacturing, or agriculture, there would always be people who work within an operational structure, who use information systems to implement sales strategies, using technology with the overall objective of running a profitable business. Adapting an additional skill from these sectors to one’s core discipline does not depreciate one’s expertise or create an impression that one is a jack or jill of all trades. In fact, it enhances it and automatically differentiates one as a candidate with more to offer in a market where talented professionals are many and opportunities are few. It is very achievable to carve a niche within your discipline, and if implemented well, you can increase your market value in terms of remuneration and strategically position yourself for unique career opportunities. What are the highlights of your time as a recruitment specialist? I am still a recruitment specialist; anything else is just a title. I am a social person, so I love meeting new people and listening to their stories. You would be surprised at how many professional journeys derived from personal experiences. Those experiences have shaped the person I am meeting in that moment and I always leave their presence learning something new. Sitting on the other side, I enjoy meeting leaders of organisations who are not trying to fit into the norm. I have a flair for spotting hidden opportunities for organisational growth. What does your company, Transquisite Consulting, do? We are an international HR consultancy that focuses on recruitment, training, outsourcing and expatriate management services. Our core business objective is to identify, develop and empower the talents in Nigeria and Sub-Saharan Africa. Our bespoke services are tailored to assist businesses in achieving their corporate agendas through the identification of key talents and the professional development of employees and business processes. What are some of the biggest challenges you face as a business owner? For me, it is learning when to switch off. My eyes are always on the ground and my finger is always on the pulse. I have been labelled a workaholic, so I am currently learning how to give myself a break. There are a lot of expectations from a business owner, and there are people who rely on one. I wear multiple hats in my professional and personal lives, and sometimes, the two get in the way of each other when my guard is down. That is something I am also learning to manage. What lessons did you learn from the COVID-19 pandemic as a business owner and recruiter? I learnt to lean on our expertise as a hybrid-service provider. We provide services that cater to the development of professionals and businesses. Though companies were not hiring as much, we were working with professionals who needed our guidance on the next steps of their careers and how they could get navigate through the disruptive economy, while building a recession-proof skill set. The pandemic taught us the importance of developing a solution-providing mindset and focus on leveraging our expertise to increase revenue, brand position, reduce cost and mitigate operational risk. What do you consider to be the highlights of your career? Making the bold step to venture on my own and break into a new market. Working in talent acquisition was the best part of my adult life. I always had the support of globally structured organisations to support my career. Africa, more specifically Nigeria, was a new ground to me. It was one thing being a Nigerian in the Diaspora coming home for the summer holidays and another thing quitting a very well-paid job to establish one’s brand in a region one has never done business before. It was initially very tough. The questions I got were “who are you and who have you worked with before”? However, God has blessed us as a brand. We were able to break into specific markets in Africa such as Ghana, Kenya, Botswana and South Africa. What are the most important business lessons you have learnt over the years? Tenacity, patience and staying true to one’s journey. I had to constantly remind myself that things do not happen overnight. I had to constantly revise my strategy and fine tune it to adapt to the economy without losing sight of the core values and ethos of why I began in the first place. What works for person ‘A’ may not work for person ‘B.’ One just has to trust in one’s journey that God will take one to that mountain top when He says the time is now. Until then, trust in the process, grab the wheel and drive to where God has destined for you to get to. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 