Leke Baiyewu, Abuja
  
The lawmaker representing Ogoja/Yala Federal Constituency in Cross River State at the House of Representatives, Mr Agom Jarigbe, has called on President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, to bar his opponent in the Cross River-North Senatorial District by-election, Stephen Odey, from further attending plenary. Jarigbe, who was recently declared by the Court of Appeal as the winner of the bye-election, said he is confident that Lawan will obey a recent Supreme Court judgment upholding his victory at the Appeal Court. 
 
The lawmaker, a member of the Peoples Democratic Party, decried that Odey, also of the PDP, has been attending Senate plenary illegally despite the decision of the apex court which threw out his appeal challenging his (Jarigbe’s) earlier victory at the Court of Appeal.
 
  
Jarigbe, who spoke to journalists in Abuja on Thursday, alleged that the National Assembly management had since been served a copy of the judgment but it was prevented from getting to Lawan on time, delaying his swearing-in.
 
According to him, Lawan only received the document on Wednesday. He said, “The Supreme Court delivered that judgment of the 25th of February and it took us about two weeks to get the judgment signed by the judge that read the lead judgment. We have communicated that judgment to the leadership of the National Assembly through our lawyers but it took some time for that file to get to the table of the Senate President. It only got to his table yesterday (Wednesday).
  
“There are a few people down the administrative line that decided to sit on that file for obvious reasons. With other members of the House, we moved in and spoke with the Clerk to the National Assembly (Amos Ojo) and sought to know why the delay.
  
“My opponent who has been ousted by the judgment of the Appeal Court and the Supreme Court is still attending plenary. That is illegal because I have the Certificate of Return issued to me by INEC, based on the judgment of the Appeal Court which invalidated his Certificate of Return, and that has been transmitted to the National Assembly.
 
 
“We thought that with the Supreme Court judgment, there was going to be a resolution of this matter. But someone sat on it. The CAN took it upon himself yesterday to investigate what was going on. The Deputy Clerk of the National Assembly and the Director, Legal have given their advice. That prompted the CNA to advise the Senate President to swear me in and that file is before the Senate President, and I know that he will comply with the judgment of the Supreme Court.”
 
 
Jarigbe added, “The fact that INEC issued me with a Certificate of Return means that they have complied with the judgment of the courts and I am supposed to be sworn in. I know that the Senate President is on top of his game. I have been a parliamentarian for a couple of years and I know how it works here.”
 
 
The lawmaker urged the leadership of the Senate to “look into this very critically.”
 
 
He, however, stated that whether or not he is sworn in immediately, “the man who is attending plenary illegally should be stopped,” stressing that, “I know and trust that the Senate leadership will do the needful.”