THE Board of Trustees of the Peoples Democratic Party on Thursday held meetings with the party’s National Working Committee and its governors to review strategy. Prior to Thursday’s meeting, the BoT held an emergency meeting on Wednesday to review the activities of the Senator Bukola Saraki-led National Reconciliation and Strategy Committee. It expressed satisfaction with successes so far recorded while reiterating support for all organs of the party. A communiqué of Wednesday’s meeting signed by the Secretary of the BoT, Senator Adolphus Wabara, was made public on Thursday. Wabara said, “The board is therefore fully committed not to allow any mischievous trends or strain to clog the working relationship between all members, particularly at the top management level of the party. “With a determination to do all that is necessary to ensure that we fulfil the overwhelming desire of the vast majority of the people of Nigeria that the PDP regains national power in 20, the board is unequivocally committed to ensuring that normalcy and peace prevails through all the organs of the party to permit the development and implementation of well-structured plans. “In this regard, the Board of Trustees will ensure that a fluent and uninterrupted operation of all the organs of the party particularly the National Working Committee remains in place leading up to a successful convention in December 2021.” Speaking to reporters on Thursday, Wabara reiterated the party’s resolve to reconcile all aggrieved members preparatory to taking power in 2023. While responding to a question on what was being done to resolve the disputes in the South West and the South -South, he said, “Politics is full of ups and down and it is your ability as a party to come into a matter and resolve issues that makes a party great. We have all it takes in this party to resolve that matter. “This is the only party in Nigeria, if not in the world, that is not owned by anybody. This party is owned by the people; so, no one party owns this party. “So, the South-West issue will definitely be taken care of, and the Saraki reconciliation committee is at work and we do not want to disappoint the people this time around.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  