AFTER several months of controversy, the Christian Association of Nigeria has gone to a Federal High Court in Abuja to challenge the legality of the Companies and Allied Matters Act, 2020, which was recently gazetted by the government. The PUNCH learnt that CAN had assembled about 30 lawyers, including five Senior Advocates of Nigeria to prosecute the case. The General Secretary of CAN, Joseph Daramola, in a statement on Monday said the suit with No. FHC/ABJ/CS/244/2021 was filed by its Incorporated Trustees. Although the case was mentioned at the Federal High Court, Abuja on Monday, the organisation said it was not comfortable with some provisions and decided to seek redress in court. The Corporate Affairs Commission and Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment were joined as first and second defendants. Daramola said, “CAN resolved to go to court after all attempts to convince the Federal Government why it should not intervene or interfere with the management of the Church in the country through any of its agencies failed.” According to him, the counsel for the plaintiff were led by Joe-Kyari Gadzama (SAN) and included Prof. J. Amupitan (SAN), Wale Adesokan (SAN), Isaac Okpanachi, Comfort Chigbue, Godswill Iyoke, Dr. Cyril Obika, Geraldine Mbah, Francis Oronsaye, Oluniyi Adediji, Charles Ndukwe, Emmanuel Ekong and Darlington Onyekwere. Others are Madu Joe-Kyari Gadzama, Lama Joe-Kyari Gadzama, Rev. Fr. Joseph Ilorah, Jerry Onbugadu Musa, Amazing Ikpala and a host of other legal luminaries. The CAN leaders present in the court included its General Secretary, Joseph Bade Daramola; Elder Kunle Fagbemi, Senator Philip Gyunka, Elder Tunde Adegbesan, Rev. Dr. Testimony Onifade,  the Director, Legal and Public Affairs, Comfort Chigbue and Senator Jonathan Zwingina. The PUNCH reported that several critics, including the Catholic Archbishop of Abuja Diocese, Most Rev. Ignatius Kaigama, had suggested that the CAMA (2020) should be reviewed. Kaigama said in an interview with The PUNCH that it should be reviewed because “religion is not Mathematics.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 