Joseph Olaoluwa The Special Assistant to the Lagos State Governor on Transportation, Oluwatoyin Fayinka, has promised to take action against fuel tankers and containerised vehicles parking along Apapa port access roads. This is following an investigation by The PUNCH which showed that trucks had returned to access roads contributing to a gridlock along Tin Can port as well as the Ijora end, days after the Nigerian Ports Authority inaugurated a new call-up system designed to address that purpose. In an exclusive telephone interview with our correspondent, Fayinka who also serves as the chairman of the Lagos State Traffic Management Enforcement Team said he was still hopeful that truckers would not compromise the entire agreement reached before the introduction of the electronic call-up system. He said, “Mr Governor promised at the last outing in Lekki that he would name and shame the people involved in the violation of traffic at Apapa. We are still hoping that they will oblige and not compromise on the entire thing. “In case they want to renege on the agreement, that is when action will be taken. Whatever action the state government will take against errant truckers will be visible. It is not going to be something hidden.” Fayinka also stressed that the enforcement of traffic at Apapa port roads was a continuous effort and promised to continue to manage the entire corridor. He said, “The enforcement is not a one-off exercise; it is a continuous assignment.” Fayinka had recently revealed that 200 trucks had been impounded on the Apapa axis for flouting the directive of the newly introduced electronic call-up system and indiscriminate parking on the road. He said, “Our enforcement strategy is gradual. We have been cleaning up the other side of the axis at Area B, Ijora into the Nigerian Ports Authority, NPA. “We are moving in gradually to other areas for cleanup which include Mile-2 end and environs. As we speak, in the last 48 hours, we have impounded about 200 trucks over for various offences, ranging from non-possession of electronic call-up slip and indiscriminate parking. “The vehicles have been towed to Lagos State Traffic Management Authority, Oshodi Yard and the owners will have to pay a fine before those vehicles will be released. Governor Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu had vowed to publicly mention the names of prominent Nigerians behind the gridlock situation in Apapa and environs. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   