A nutritionist and chief executive officer, Evergreen Health and Social Care International, Mrs Yemisi Solanke-Lawal, has advised Nigerians on the need for moderate consumption of oily fish, which she said can aid the build-up of mercury and pollutants in the body. The nutritionist, who described fish as a source of vitamins and minerals, said in a statement titled, ‘Fish as a cardio-protective diet,’ that fishes could be classified into “oily fish and whitefish.” Solanke-Lawal, said, “Oily fish has a long chain of Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid which has been proven to be beneficial in improving cardiac health and preventing heart diseases. The Omega-3 fatty acid is also important for a woman who is pregnant or breastfeeding because it can help her baby’s nervous system to develop. “The whitefish are low in fat, thus making them one of the healthier and low-fat alternatives to red meat or processed meat which tends to be higher in fat, especially saturated fat. Oily fish can contain mercury and pollutants that can build up in the body. These pollutants can harm an unborn baby now or in a future pregnancy. “This thereby sets a limitation on the amount of oily fish to be consumed for all girls, women who have not been through the menopause, those trying for a baby and those who are pregnant or breastfeeding to have not more than two portions of oily fish a week. A portion should be around 140 grammes. The expert, who advised that fish was better cooked, baked, or grilled, said, “Frying can increase the fat content of a fish which can put one’s health at risk.” According to her, fish, as highly consumed in society, is a good source of many vitamins and minerals e.g. Vitamin D, just as the soft bones of some fishes which can be consumed are a source of calcium and phosphorus. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 