Segun Adewole Niger State government has announced that all public secondary schools in the state will be closed from Friday, March 12 to March 26, 2021. The directive is to enable security agencies to conduct a comprehensive risk assessment of all public secondary schools in the state. This was disclosed in a statement issued by the state Public Enlightenment Unit on social media on Thursday. READ ALSO: Wike was my staff, I can’t bring myself low to his level –Amaechi “Please be informed that the Niger State Government has directed that all public Secondary schools in the state be closed from March 12th to 26th, 2021. “This is to enable security agencies to conduct a comprehensive risk assessment of all public Secondary schools. “When completed, the exercise will provide an all-inclusive mechanism and strategies that will restore and guarantee sustainable security and safety of students, schools’ infrastructure, education managers and teachers in Niger state,” the statement said. According to a statement by the Information Officer, Niger State Ministry Of Education, Jibrin Usman Kodo, the closure, when concluded, will restore and guarantee sustainable security and safety of students, school infrastructure, education managers, and teachers in the state The statement said, “Though 22 Secondary Schools (11 Day and 11 Boarding Schools)have earlier been closed, the two weeks closure of all “Secondary Schools were necessary to give relevant SecurityAgencies the time and opportunity to conduct a comprehensive risk assessment of all public secondary schools. “The exercise, when completed, will provide an all-inclusive mechanism and strategies that will restore and guarantee sustainable security and safety of Students, School infrastructure, Education managers, Teachers in the State. “The Commissioner used the opportunity to commend Education actors, Parents, and communities for their patience, understanding, and support in this trying time. “She reiterated the government’s commitment to leave no stone unturned and ensure that all schools are safe environments for effective Teaching and learning. “Therefore, she urged Nigerlites not to relent in their show of solidarity, cooperation and collaboration with the government in this critical task of surmounting security challenges especially the School system.” READ ALSO: ICYMI: I didn’t defraud FG of N51bn, N2.5bn –Buhari’s daughter Some students and staff of Government Science College, Kagara in Niger State were recently abducted by bandits after a raid on their school. The abductees have since regained their freedom.