Maclawrence Famuyiwa Public health and Infectious Disease Specialist 08059483191 It is no longer news that there are conspiracy theories linking COVID-19 to the introduction of the 5G technology. Unfortunately, the proponents of this are highly placed and influential political and religious leaders and respected celebrities with millions of followers. It is melancholic that the promoters of this insalubrious belief relentlessly espouse this assertion, using all available means. Even when there are incontrovertible evidence to disprove their averment. They are so convincing that they daily win new converts. The followers of these proponents of these conspiracy theories have insidiously been harangued so deep into this false assertion that supposed 5G cell towers, that were actually 3G or 4G towers, were destroyed or damaged in some countries. Telecoms companies’ workers were reportedly harassed for lying down, what these theorists celebrated to be, 5G fibreoptic cables. Many other nauseating things have been reportedly done to people perceived to have a link with the introduction of 5G. Many facts that were alluded to, for them to establish a link between 5G and COVID-19 was that since 5G signals are more powerful than those of 3G and 4G that predated it, there is, therefore, a likelihood that 5G would be deleterious to human existence unlike 3G and 4G. This conjecture was backed by allusions such as the death of about 300 starlings in a park in The Hague in 2018, even though, there were no recorded 5G tests in that city by the time of occurrence of this incidence. They further corroborated this using the death of another hundred starlings on a road in North Wales, in December 2019. Even felling of trees in Serbia, as part of street reconstruction work and to encourage the planting of maple trees, was rather projected to be as a result of the devastating effect of 5G on trees, hence the reason why the trees fell, on their own. Meanwhile, it is not uncommon to find such deaths of a large number of birds, even before 5G was ever dreamt of, and this had been used as a veritable way of monitoring the onset of disease outbreaks. And interestingly enough, the same conspiracy theories and protests were used to herald the introduction of 3G. Also, though, it is true that trees of certain heights, like other structures such as high walls, bus stops and billboards could interfere with radio frequency signals and such structures are removed to eliminate such impedance. But it is fallacious to believe that trees could fall on their own because of the deleterious effect of the 5G 5G is an acronym for “fifth generation” of mobile communication services. It is the next generation of mobile internet connectivity that provides faster speeds and more reliable connectivity than the 4G. The 5G services have been provided, since 2019, in a number of countries, such as China, the United Kingdom, United States of America, South Korea, Australia and Germany. 5G makes use of radio waves like 2G, 3G and 4G before it. Radio waves are part of the electromagnetic spectrum. They are lower frequency waves with non-ionising radiation and cannot damage the DNA in human cells like higher frequencies waves in the electromagnetic spectrum, such as X-rays, visible lights, and microwaves, which are ionising and believed to be capable of causing cancers at certain doses. Even though 5G operates at a higher frequency of the electromagnetic spectrum, but all current researches have shown that it shares potential safety close to those of the mobile technology that predated it and it is very unlikely that radio waves emanating from mobile phones or base stations could increase the risk of any health problems. On the other hand coronavirus disease 2019, has been researched to be caused by a respiratory virus now identified as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). The virus was believed to be of animal origin, probably from bats in a large market in Wuhan, China, where the disease was first identified. It is believed to be majorly transmitted between humans through respiratory droplets when an infected person sneezes, coughs, and even merely by breathing into the ambient air. Therefore, hanging onto the belief, that COVID-19 was a result of the introduction of 5G mobile technology is an admission of a total bereft of the understanding of the two terms. The fact that different uncoordinated theories have been proposed showed the uncertainties of the proponents of these theories. The introduction of earlier mobile phone technology that preceded 5G was also welcomed with such illusionary assertions. Also, COVID-19 is not the first pandemic that would be of avian origin, the 1918 influenza was also established to be of the same origin. It should also be pointed out that the 1918 influenza predated cellular technology, yet it had a similar effect on people. It decimated the world population by a quarter, at the time. Going by this fact, it is thus better to err on the side of keeping to all precautions to prevent contracting COVID-19 and being safe, even if at the end, the disease ended being farcical, than to contract the disease and spend a lot of money to procure its cure or to, unfortunately, end up succumbing to it because of a conjectural dogma. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    