Nike Popoola The Federal Controller of Works in Ogun State, Mr Umar Bakare, has asked highway traders and beggars under bridges and along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway to immediately vacate the highway to save lives. He made the appeal during the grand finale of a two-day mass sensitisation exercise against road abuse and encroachment. Bakare who led a delegation of engineers and the Federal Controllers of Works in Lagos and Oyo States raised the alarm over danger to lives of business owners and traders. He advised those carrying out commercial activities on road medians and setbacks between Ojota in Lagos to Ojoo in Ibadan, to quickly vacate the spot to escape avoidable accidents. Warning the violators, he said, “How can you be selling in the middle of a highway or moving your wares very close to the road with trailers running on this expressway? “Government said we should sensitise and beg you. Please stop risking your lives. We are constructing this road for you and some people are risking their own lives selling here. “God forbid that a trailer veers off the road or falls from this bridge, what do you think would happen to all of you here considering your huge number?’’ Bakare also advised several youth traders who used unemployment as excuse to approach their various local governments towards securing safe zones for commercial activities instead of the highways. Also, the Federal Controller of Works in Lagos, Mr Olukayode Popoola, represented by Mr Adewale Adebote, said the huge abuse of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway and underneath the bridges was worrisome. He expressed satisfaction that the positive responses from those encroaching on the highway would change the tide because some of them were not aware that their activities had negative impact on the road. “We are currently at Iwo Road Interchange where you have motor parks and other services; this is a major terminal in Ibadan and you can see how dangerous it is for people to trade here on the road,’’ he said. He said that the Minister of Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola, gave a directive for the awareness campaign on the dangers of road abuses, adding that the highway laws would be implemented thereafter. The Federal Controller of Works in Oyo State, Mr Kayode Ibrahim, who led a sensitisation campaign in his domain said that the government was serious now about recovery of its Right of Way. “We are here to sensitise the general public particularly those who are occupying the RoW of our roads illegally to desist from it. We are sensitising them so that they can move from there,’’ he said. Ibrahim said the exercise was to make residents understand the dangers to both themselves and the highway to extract willing compliance by appealing to them because the government did not want to use force. He said that the collaboration of the three states would ensure better result during the sensitisation through the various stages to return sanity to the road. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  