Sunday Aborisade, Abuja THE Senate on Wednesday asked the Federal Government to direct relevant government agencies to bring back the people of Yewa in Ogun State who had escaped to the Republic of Benin following incessant herdsmen attacks on their communities. The Senate resolution was sequel to a point of order raised by the Senator representing Ogun West, Tolu Odebiyi. The red chamber also mandated relevant security agencies to restore law and order in the troubled communities. The Upper Chamber called on the National Emergency Management Agency, the Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs and the Border Communities Development Agency to undertake an ‘on-the-spot’ assessment of the affected communities with a view to determining the extent of the problem and providing relief to the affected persons. Coming under Order 42 and 52 of the Senate Standing Rules, Odebiyi recalled the recent spate of attacks by suspected herdsmen on communities in Yewa area of Ogun State. The lawmaker noted that, “many of these attacks by suspected herdsmen on the area remain perennial, owing to the near absence of police and other security personnel in the affected communities.” He further said that many communities, namely (but not limited to) Asa, Oho Agbooro, Moro, Ibeku and Agbon-Ojodu, were affected by the criminal activities of these suspected herdsmen; He said the position of the Nigerian Red Cross Society, which followed an informed on-the-spot assessment of the affected communities, was described by the Executive Secretary of the society in Ogun State, Mr Oluwole Aboyade, as   “a very serious disaster, a serious one of the highest order…” Contributing, Senator Rochas Okorocha, urged Nigerians to unite against the perpetrators of criminality by refusing to associate the various criminal activities with any region in particular. The Senate, accordingly, “calls on concerned authorities to pursue/put in place necessary mechanism for the reparation and relocation of the affected peoples to their communities.” It urged the authorities of the Nigerian Police Force to see to the provision of Police Post(s) and ensuring police presence in these communities, so as to ensure security and rekindle the people’s confidence. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  