Dennis Naku, Port Harcourt THE acrimonious relationship between the Governor of Benue State, Samuel Ortom and his Bauchi State counterpart, Senator Bala Mohammed, has been amicably resolved. A statement by the Special Assistant to the Rivers State Governor on Media, Kelvin Ebiri, indicated that the conflict was resolved in Port Harcourt on Tuesday following the intervention of Governor of Nyesom Wike (Rivers) and Governor Ahmed Fintiri (Adamawa). Briefing journalists at the meeting which held at Governor Wike’s private residence at Rumuepirikom, Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of the state, Mohammed said the feud between him and Ortom over herders/Fulani profiling was regrettable. “I want to seize this opportunity to tell Nigerians that whatever misconception that is there; that my brother, Ortom, and I are having problem is not true. “What happened was just an explanation that emanated from a larger Governors’ Forum that we spoke on the security of the nation and we talked of the failure of security infrastructure which everybody knows is under the purview of the Federal Government,” Mohammed added. On his part, Ortom thanked Wike and Fintiri for arranging the meeting where it was agreed that the outburst between him and his Bauchi State counterpart was not needed. “We have accepted that it was wrong for us to have that kind of outburst that went out, but as from today, we have learnt. We are all fallible human beings and we are subject to mistakes,” Ortom stated. Ortom identified the failure of the security architecture of the country which is anchored by the Federal Government for the recent outburst between him and Mohammed. In his remarks, Wike thanked Ortom and Mohammed for amicably resolving their dispute. “Everybody knows that the Federal Government has failed in providing security for this country. And of course, you will not blame them. They (Ortom and Mohammed) are under pressure from their various states. It is not as if they have any personal issue,” Wike said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    