Experts have called on the federal and state governments to accord more legal, political and financial rights to Nigerian women as critical players in the national development. Speaking at an event organised by the Nigerian Association of Small and Medium Enterprises (Women’s Wing) to mark International Women’s Day in Lagos on Friday, they urged women to challenge the barriers to socioeconomic and political growth. In a lecture titled, ‘Women, Family Law and Property Rights,’ a chartered arbitrator, Dr Adeyemi Agbelusi, said despite the right to freedom from discrimination and the right to own property enshrined in Sections 42 and 43, respectively, of the 1999 Constitution, property right was an area many women were worried about. Agbelusi lamented that the law governing marriage in Nigeria had yet to be reviewed since 1970, leaving women in suffering and without due regard in the ownership of property in the event of the death of their husbands. He, however, urged them to embrace alternative dispute resolution. “The law must be clearer in giving specific provisions in terms of what people should get when it comes to settlement and inheritance, for instance, in a place whereby this occurs. “It is really about education. If the law has not been reversed and you are given an opportunity to have a settlement, mediation or an alternative means of resolution, before you go into litigation either over inheritance, estate or a will, it is best to get proper mediators to advise you and come to a settlement,” he added. A lawyer, Fausat Bakare, who lamented that Muslim women were not given the freedom to exercise their rights in some parts of the country, said the contributions of women in society could not be overemphasised as they had continued to play major role in families and communities. “In Islam, women’s rights are recognised as a mother, as a wife, as a daughter, as a sister. Their rights are well-protected. “The reason why it appears that the rights of the Muslim woman have not been well-articulated or enforced is because they are being deprived of the court where they can adjudicate the matter. For instance, in the South-West, when Muslim women want to exercise their rights even under the Constitution, we have to go to the customary courts until recently when we had independent Sharia courts.” On her part, the Chairman of Punch Nigeria Limited, Mrs Angela Emuwa, described the female gender as the bedrock of the family institution with no monetary value attached to her work as a homemaker and in childbearing. She decried the lack of financial access to women in rural communities. She said, “Though women constitute 41 per cent of the population in Nigeria, according to the 1990 censors, they make up 70 per cent of poor Nigerians. This has to change. Ironically, women are critical to the socioeconomic well-being of society as well over 65 per cent of women are in the formal sector. “In most cases, the law does not recognise the humanity in women. They are denied the right to stand as surety for suspects in the police stations or allowed as guarantors in most jurisdictions. This has to change. “Police regulations forbid an unmarried policewoman from getting pregnant but do not stop a policeman from getting a woman pregnant. (It is) very unfair; this has to change. In Muslim society, a man is permitted to marry four wives; meanwhile, a woman has to stick with one (husband). “In Igbo society, the girl-child and the woman, until the recent Supreme Court judgment, were not allowed to inherit their father’s property. But now that there is a judgment, they can do so. These are the kinds of changes that we need. That is not to say that women are waiting for their father’s property, unlike some men.” The National President of NASME, Prince Orimadegun Agboade, said the organisation would continue to support women in business and called on the federal and state governments to show support through favourable policies for women. The chairperson on the occasion and National Coordinator, Association of Nigerian Women Business Network, Mrs Modupe Oyekunle, identified the spate of insecurity, lack of social parity, irregular power supply and poor infrastructure as other challenges facing Nigerian women. Earlier, the National Women Coordinator of NASME, Otunba Gbemisola Oduntan, said women had the capacity to outdo their male counterparts and stressed the need for gender balance, financial inclusion and the right to own property. “If you look at executives all over the world, 77 per cent of them are men, and we have only 23 per cent as women. This is a gap that we need to close as women. Two years ago, we had a programme and we said we are canvassing that we want to be on the same stage with the men,” Oduntan said. She added, “And we said we need to prepare ourselves so that we can be there. Today, we are challenging the status quo. Why are we challenging the status quo? (It is) because we have what it takes now. We are prepared and we are ready to take over from the men.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   