Nike Popoola The Chartered Institute of Professional Printers of Nigeria charged with the duty of regulating, controlling and managing the affairs of printers and related matters in Nigeria has lamented the arbitrary increase in the cost of papers in Nigeria. In a statement on Tuesday titled ‘Paper cartel…, threat to national security – CIPPON’, it declared the cartel involved in the importation of papers as a threat to National Security and cause of increasing job loss. The President and Chairman-in-Council of the institute, Mr Olugbemi Malomo, said the Nigerian printing industry, which employed over 10 million Nigerians within its value-chain was currently under siege laid by few foreigners who monopolised the market and made it impossible for Nigerians to freely import paper into the country. According to Malomo, paper was the biggest raw material and constituted more than 50 per cent of any printing contract. “But the cartel has been increasing the prices of papers daily unabatedly,” he said. He said although the institute recognised that price of commodities was increasing across board due to the rising cost of foreign exchange, the increase in the cost of papers which was currently around 300 per cent far exceeded that of foreign exchange. Illustrating how these foreigners had perfected their heinous deeds, he gave an example of the experience at the last general elections in the country. He said it got so bad that that everywhere an average Nigerian went to buy paper for importation into the country, they met a brick wall and were referred back home to the cartel who controlled the price of papers and sold at prices far above what obtained at the international market. The CIPPON president added that these foreigners did not only sell papers at higher rates, they were also competing with indigenous printers on the commercial side, taking their business, since most of them were unable to match their prices, thereby raising antitrust issues. The president said the consequences of this were that members of the institute were beginning to sell-off their equipment and lay-off workers almost on a daily basis, due to lack of jobs. With the increasing costs in printing due to the progressively unending rise in paper costs, he said, prices of books would go up, and ultimately put critical books and textbooks beyond the reach of students. He said if this trend continued unabated, there would be massive unemployment that could disrupt the country’s fragile peace. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    