Sodiq Oyeleke The management of the University of Ibadan has asked workers on essential services in the institution to resume work from Monday, March 8, 2021. The spokesperson for the university, Olatunji Oladejo, made this known in a press statement titled, ‘resumption of work’ on Sunday. The PUNCH reports that UI had been shut down since March 2020 when members of the Academic Staff Union of Universities embarked on an indefinite strike. READ ALSO: Nigerians seek help for UI medical school dropout-turned porter Shortly after the suspension of the strike by the lecturers, non-academic staff also embarked on an indefinite strike over IPPIS and other issues. The statement read in part, “Management has noted the protracted strike by staff unions and COVID-19 pandemic which brought all academic and administrative activities in the University to a grinding halt for almost one year, to the effect that the University Senate approved the cancellation of 2019/2020 Session. “Fortunately, most of the contentious issues have been resolved while others are being resolved locally or nationally. READ ALSO: CBN ‘naira-4-dollar’ policy may increase foreign remittance to $34bn “Management appreciates the maturity, intelligence, wisdom and outstanding experience displayed by the leadership of the Unions. “With the new breath of air in the University Administration, we need to move forward to sustain the pride of place of our University among world-class institutions being enabled by our staff and students. “It is our resolve to raise the bar of exceptional legacy in University governance and structure bequeathed to us by our forebears. UPDATED: Notorious Fulani warlord Iskilu Wakili arrested in Oyo “In view of the above and noting the compliance with Covid-19 protocols, staff on essential services are please requested to resume at their duty posts from Monday, 08 March, 2021. “Other Heads of Divisions/Units/Centres are also requested to determine modalities for ensuring smooth operations of their mandates. “Management appreciates your cooperation and solicits your understanding in this regard.”