FACING antipathy from abroad and defiance at home, Myanmar’s (Burma) generals who seized power in a coup last month have responded with characteristic barbarity. Troops and police have brutalised protesters on the streets, stepped up arrests, torture, and censorship and resorted to massacres. But there should be no respite for the usurpers; the international community should pile up the pressure in support of the courageous Burmese who are daily risking their lives in peaceful protests to demand democracy. The word democracy derives from the Greek demos, people, and kratos, grip. That grip has recently seemed violent and uncomfortable to some. Accustomed to having their way after decades of brutal military rule, the generals have been taken aback by the resistance of the civilian population. They also face international hostility, including sanctions. Mass protests have broken out in many cities across the country. These have been accompanied by acts of civil disobedience, including symbolic clanging of kitchenware, strikes, sit-ins, boycotts of junta-run businesses and products as well as desertions by police and public officials. Beatings, torture, arrests and shootings have been stepped up by security forces, culminating in the slaughter of 38 persons on March 3, in the deadliest day so far of unrest. By Sunday, Reuters estimated that about 54 protesters had been slain since the coup, while activists claim up to 77 had died. Over 1,700 others had been detained, including 29 journalists, said the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners. Malevolently, troops occupied hospitals and university campuses on Monday ahead of a nationwide strike. The death in detention of Khin Maung Latt, an official of the National League for Democracy, is part of an ongoing violent persecution of the party, its leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, and activists that won November’s general election by a landslide. Additional trumped up criminal charges have been slammed on Suu Kyi, and the President, Win Myint. Both, as well as minsters, lawmakers and hundreds of party members have been held in detention. Democracy, like all human endeavours, is not perfect, but among all other forms of government, it is acknowledged to be more accountable, offers better quality of decision-making, provides for easier conflict-resolution, ability to correct mistakes and the opportunity to freely choose leaders. It best approximates to the attainment of fundamental human rights. The UN Chronicle declares, “In general, democracy creates better opportunities for both economic growth and cultural progress than authoritarian regimes” and is preferable for long-term and sustainable growth. The coup is therefore a reprehensible assault on the right of Myanmar’s 54.4 million people to freely determine their own leaders and chart their future. It should be faced down by all lovers of freedom worldwide. It was executed a day before the new parliament was to be inaugurated and power consolidated by Suu Kyi, whose NLD won 396 of the 476 seats in the general election. The military-backed Union Solidarity and Development Party was crushed, winning only 33 seats. But unwilling to give up power and the enormous perks they had accumulated, they made unfounded allegations of fraud that were roundly dismissed by election observers. The military, officially called the Tatmadaw, has been denying this South-East Asian country democracy.  In 1958, 10 years after independence from Britain, they seized power and ruled for two years, handed over to civilians in 1960 but again, seized power in 1962 to usher in 26 years of military rule. The NLD won the 1990 general election, which the generals promptly annulled and kept Suu Kyi in confinement for 20 years. In a gradual easing, the constitution they foisted on the country in 2015 had reserved 25 per cent of parliamentary seats and control of key ministries for the military. Thus inebriated by power, the soldiers could not stand being confined to the barracks. In addition to the slew of sanctions, including travel bans, freezing of the country’s accounts and assets, the United States, European Union countries and the Asian democracies should squeeze the Tatmadaw until they bow to the people’s will. Commendably, several countries and private companies have suspended economic deals with Myanmar. Calls for the release of Suu Kyi and all other detainees should be unrelenting. The UN’s resolve to rally the world to resist the coup should be unwavering; economic, political and cultural ties should be severed. The junta’s pariah status should be acute and sanctions biting and sustained. Efforts should be stepped up to discourage China and Russia and other authoritarian states from giving comfort to the brutish soldiers. Records of their atrocities should be kept and plans made in advance to haul them before the International Criminal Court, where Africans have borne the brunt of global legal retribution for crimes committed against their own people. It is important for the world, particularly the West, to be resolute in supporting the heroic struggle of the Burmese people, especially the youth. Some diplomats, police officers and public servants have bowed to their consciences, denounced the junta or gone into exile. Hundreds have defied threats, stayed away from work and joined mass protests. The world should not let them down. “Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere”, as Martin Luther King Jr. said. The pressure should not falter as some have alleged it did in Belarus where the pro-democracy opposition has been oppressed since a disputed election in August last year. It is said that a properly functioning everyday democracy is one in which people have the chance to participate in shaping public life – and who take the opportunity to do so. The message must be driven home everywhere that the world would no longer tolerate the violent overthrow of democratically elected governments by soldiers. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   