Leicester City forward Kelechi Iheanacho is pushing to lead the Super Eagles attack for their AFCON qualifiers after grabbing a hat-trick on Sunday. The 24-year-old was on a scoring spree, scoring three times, as his side saw off bottom-place Sheffield United 5-0 in the EPL. In a video shared by club and international teammate, Wilfred Ndidi, after the match, Iheanacho was heard joking he’ll replicate the form when he joins the Eagles camp later this month for their AFCON qualifiers against Benin Republic and Lesotho. Asides Iheanacho, Eagles coach Gernot Rohr has invited forwards Sadiq Umar, Samuel Chukwueze, Victor Osimhen and Moses Simon for the tie. With Osimhen in and out for a while due to injuries and COVID-19, many believe Iheanacho’s form is enough reason for him to lead the Eagles’ attack. Speaking with our correspondent on Monday, former Eagles star, Garba Lawal, said with Iheanacho’s form, it would be difficult for Rohr to bench him. “Every manager wants to see his players playing week-in-week-out and most especially the strikers scoring goals. Now, I believe it’s a headache for the coach to bench someone that is scoring week-in-week-out and put someone that’s off and on, that’s the reality, football is practical,” Lawal said. “I’ve always had confidence in him (Iheanacho) because I knew he is always clinical and scores a lot of goals. I always like him as a striker. Sometimes he is lazy in the game, but once he has that half chance, he converts it and that’s all what you need as a striker.” According to ex-Eagles midfielder, Mutiu Adepoju, both Iheanacho and Osimhen have led the Eagles and delivered, adding that whoever the coach picks will be up to the task. “Iheanacho has played for Eagles and has scored goals, so he is capable of doing anything. Osimhen also has done same thing, so he is capable. They are all doing well which is very good, so it is left to the coach,” Adepoju told The PUNCH. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   