A resident of Erin-Osun in the Irepodun Local Government Area of Osun State, Teslim Ibitoye, has narrated how some policemen allegedly shot his brother dead in 2017 and refused to release his corpse since then. Teslim, who spoke on Friday before the Osun Judicial Panel of Inquiry on police brutality, human rights violations and extrajudicial killings, said the cops also inflicted an injury on his spinal cord. The petitioner explained that the killing of his brother, Akeem Ibitoye, who he described as the breadwinner of the family, had impacted negatively on the family’s wellbeing. He said he and Akeem were on a visit to their cousin’s house on April 25, 2017 when the policemen stormed into the apartment and whisked them away. Ibitoye recalled, “Suddenly, I heard gunshots. The last thing I remembered was that I stood up at the sound of the first gunshot. We were taken on a bus and driven to Osogbo. My brother was lying dead on the ground and I also lay on my back because I couldn’t sit by myself again. I remember that when the Commissioner of Police at the time, CP Adeoye, came around, my cousin, Nureni Ibitoye, and the other suspects who were apprehended, kept repeating that my brother and I had not done any wrong. “On the basis of their testimonies, the Commissioner of Police ordered that I should be taken to the police clinic for treatment. I was sneaked out of the clinic on April 28 around 2am and taken to Abuja. After some examinations in Abuja, an officer, Abba Kyari, ordered that I should be taken to the hospital for treatment. “I was taken to the General Hospital, Gwagalada, where I was admitted and discharged on August 1. From there, I was taken to the police cell again for two weeks. I was eventually released on August 15, and I have been trying to treat myself since then.’’ Ibitoye said Akeem’s murder had badly affected the family, noting that their mother was still in shock, finding it hard to believe that her son was dead. He stated that it was also tough for the other members of the family to recover from the trauma as his brother’s corpse had been withheld by the police “despite the fact that all investigations showed he has not committed any crime.” Ibitoye added, “The killing of my family’s breadwinner has turned everything upside-down in the family. I want to be treated. As I speak, I still have a bullet in my T4 (spinal cord) that I have been carrying around for four years. If there’s anywhere I can be taken to get proper treatment, I will be most pleased. “Breathing for me requires extra efforts, and even despite the support, I don’t have the strength to stand. For the extent of the damage done to my family and me, I am appealing for an order of adequate compensation to the tune of N50m.” Also, the late Akeem’s wife, Kafayat Ibitoye, who brought her three kids to the panel sitting, said it was unfortunate that her children didn’t have a father anymore, lamenting that her husband’s life was cut short for no just cause. The Chairman of the Panel, Justice Akin Oladimeji (retd.), ordered the management of the State General Hospital, Asubiaro, Osogbo, and other concerned authorities to release Akeem’s corpse immediately to the family for proper burial. He adjourned the case to April 19, 2021 for further hearing. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   