Dennis Naku, Port Harcourt The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps has arrested 28 suspects allegedly involved in illegal oil bunkering and other crimes in Port Harcourt and other parts of Rivers State. Also, the NSCDC said its operatives seized seven trucks used in conveying stolen adulterated petroleum products and oil pipes. The Commandant, NSCDC, Rivers State Command, Muktar Lawal, disclosed this while parading the suspects and the confiscated items before newsmen in Port Harcourt on Monday. Muktar said on 24 December 2020, suspected vandalized ‘rail track slippers’ were recovered along the Kok-Kom rail line in Oyigbo Local Government Area of the state. Among other seized items were a Mack truck containing an unspecified quantity of illegal crude oil and two others containing Automated Gas Oil (AGO), otherwise known as diesel. He stated further, “As a result of the strong synergy between the Nigerian Army and the NSCDC, on January 25, 2021, a suspect alleged to be involved in oil wellhead theft belonging to the Nigeria Agip Oil Company pipeline was arrested at Chokocho community, Ikwerre LGA and handed over to the command for possible prosecution. “Also, on 30th January 2021, two suspects were arrested and handed over to the command by the Nigerian Army for further investigation and prosecution. The suspects were arrested in connection with dealings in petroleum products in Omoku, Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni LGA of Rivers State. “Items recovered from the suspects include, two saw blades, one measuring tape, and a cylinder fame touch,” he said, adding that the suspects have been charged to Court. “On 6th February 2021 at about 1330hrs, the command’s anti-vandal team arrested one suspect for willfully tampering and removing metals used in the construction of bridges at Ogba/Egbema/Ndono LGA of Rivers State. “Recovered from the suspects is a long lorry truck with registration number NSR 462 ZB, used for conveying the exhibits. On 18th February 2021 at about 840hrs, the command arrested four suspects for illegal dealings in petroleum products (AGO) at Rumuokoro axis of Obio/Akpor lga of the state. “The products were contained in a DAF Truck with registration number KMC 165 VT. On 23rd February 2021, at about 0044hrs, the anti-vandal patrol team of the command arrested a Truck with registration number NCA 927 XA, loaded with unspecified litres of suspected stolen crude oil along Ebocha Road in ONELGA, Rivers State. “On 25th February 2021 at about 0245hrs, 10 suspected oil thieves were also arrested with suspected adulterated AGO loaded in a truck with registration number LND 504 XT at Ozuboko in Port Harcourt city LGA,” the state NSCDC Commandant said. Lawal further disclosed that on February 25, 2021, its anti-vandal team nabbed six more suspected oil thieves and a truck with registration number SML 516 XA filled with suspected adulterated AGO in Choba, Obio/Akpor lga. Similarly, he said, “Following a credible intelligence, on 25th, 2021 at about 1014hrs, four suspects and two Trucks with registration ABU 10 XA and KJU 39 XB were arrested conveying 20 suspected stolen petroleum pipes (each conveyed 10 pipes) at Ahoada East lga. The arrested suspects are currently undergoing investigation and would be charged to Court for possible prosecution.” He expressed sadness that despite the efforts of the federal government to put the rail system in place for economic growth, some miscreants and undesirable individuals chose to make themselves stumbling blocks by vandalizing critical national assets and infrastructure. 