Some Presidency officials have accused Governor Bello Matawalle of Zamfara State and his aides of attempting to subvert the Federal Government’s  ‘No fly’ restriction placed over the state’s airspace. Multiple officials, who spoke to The PUNCH, said Matawalle and the state House of Assembly had openly opposed the no fly order and the ban placed on mining activities despite rising insecurity in the state that led to the abduction of nearly 300 schoolgirls a few weeks ago. One of the officials, who wished to remain anonymous, said it was funny that the Assembly could pass a vote of no confidence in the National Security Adviser, Babagana Monguno, even though the NSA was not a state government official. “They are not stopping at that (vote of no confidence) as findings have revealed that a campaign of calumny against the person of the NSA had been perfected and certain elements from political divides in the country, especially from his Peoples Democratic Party, including a former minister, will be used,” the source said. Another Aso Rock Villa official said the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), was shocked that some of the foreign illegal miners were linked to banditry and the Zamfara State Government ignored the destruction of some villages, where mining takes place, and tolerated the use of chopper flights in and out to facilitate illegal mining. The official said security reports had traced some persons to the rising insurgency and banditry in Zamfara State due to the power given to illegal miners, especially the foreigners, most of whom were said to be Chinese nationals. The security report had it that many stakeholders in the state were collaborators with the Chinese illegal miners, who were suspected to be linked to banditry going on alongside illegal mining in the state. According to the report, before these illegal miners and their local recruits, who had been cleared by the state government, arrived at the gold mining sites of their choice, the bandits would have stormed the communities, where the operations will take place, to render the areas desolate for the miners to have a field day. Having secured the sites for them, the Chinese move around the illegal mining sites, flying in with helicopters to bypass immigration checkpoints, and this, it was said, accounted for the persistence of banditry and insurgency, as military activities were being undermined by those who profit from the sector at the expense of vulnerable indigenes and residents. Also worrying to the President, it was learned, was the fact that the state government had attempted to facilitate the granting of federal licences to some long time illegal miners without questioning their acts of violating the rights of Zamfara villagers, whose land and communities, like in Bagega, witnessed untold suffering because of the activities of the miners. A Villa official stated, “It is unconscionable that the government will ignore the protection of its people just because some of its top officials have monetary benefits from mining.” It was also alleged that some representatives of the Zamfara State Government had offered some ministers and close aides to the President some form of inducement, including sharing from mining proceeds, if they could help prevent the no fly restriction and the ban on mining, which were rejected. Zamfara is believed to have the country’s largest deposits of gold, which can fetch up to $2bn per year if properly organised. The Federal Government had said in 2018 that N353bn worth of gold or 18 tonnes of gold was smuggled out of the country and sold in the international market. But in his reaction, state Commissioner for Information, Alhaji Ibrahim Dosara, debunked claims that the state government tried to subvert the presidential order on the no flying zone, saying Governor Bello Matawalle, being a former federal lawmaker, respected the rules at anytime. Dosara said, “Bello Matawalle is a governor of his state; the NSA is an aide to President Muhammadu Buhari; and the Minister of Mines is a minister of the Federal Republic directly answerable to the President. “How will they be at loggerheads with the governor of Zamfara State? The governor, being a former lawmaker, respects the rule of law at any time.” On the allegation that most of the illegal miners were linked to banditry and the state government ignored destruction of villages where mining was taking place, the commissioner said, “How about the bandits operating in Niger, Kaduna, Katsina, Kebbi and Sokoto, where there is no illegal mining taking place? “I don’t understand what you mean by saying the Zamfara State Government ignored the destruction of villages where mining is taking place. “Are you not the same people indicating that mining is exclusively under the control of the Federal Government? “Has the Federal Government not placed embargo on illegal mining since before the coming of the present administration? What connects Zamfara Government with this issue then? Dosara also described the claim that the state attempted to facilitate granting of licence to illegal miners as funny, adding that mining officers were directly under the Federal Government. He said, “Are you saying that the mining officers, who are directly answerable to the Minister of Mines, do not know their job or violate the laws in granting licences for mining? “How about the licences granted to several miners before Matawalle became the governor? Who influenced them?” Dosara said there was no point for Nigerians trying to destabilise the country by sensational and inciting stories. He added, “You gain nothing out of it.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  