THE President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Thursday, inaugurated the headquarters of the Niger Delta Development Commission on the Eastern by-pass, Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital. Buhari, who performed the ceremony virtually from the State House, Abuja, and monitored by our correspondent, expressed happiness that the complex would be opened 25-years after it was started. He said the event was part of his administration’s commitment to reposition the NDDC for the overall development of the Niger Delta region. The President stated, “The building we are about to open today started in the year 1996 during the era of the Oil Mineral Producing Areas Development Commission. Since then, the project went through series of designs and amendments but was eventually abandoned. “In 2015, as part of our administration’s cardinal objectives to embark on a holistic reform of NDDC for greater service delivery for the people, I re-assigned the supervision of the NDDC to the minister of Niger Delta Affairs for administrative efficiency. “Second, we are conducting a forensic audit to review the operations of the commission and to ensure that the appropriations made through the NDDC is commensurate with what is on the ground. I therefore use this opportunity to commend Senator Godswill Akpabio for providing the required leadership that saw to the completion of this edifice. “I note the cordial relationship between the NDDC and the National Assembly. I hope that this relationship will be strengthened for the benefit of the Niger Delta region. It is my honour and privilege to commission this edifice.” Buhari then invited the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, to cut the tape and unveil the plaque of the 13-storey edifice. Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodimma, who said he was speaking on behalf of the Niger Delta governors, thanked the President for the completion of the building, promising that the nine governors under the NDDC would continue to support his bold steps in development. In his remarks, Akpabio said the completion of the NDDC building signals the President’s commitment to the development of the oil and gas rich region, and the ending of activities of corrupt public officials, who also negated the connection of the offices to national grid over many years in order to seek rent on fuelling of generators. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  