Friday Olokor, Abuja A High Court of the Federal Capital Territory in Maitama on Wednesday granted bail to a former Director-General of the Bureau of Public Enterprises, Benjamin Dikki. He was remanded in prison on Monday after he was arraigned alongside his company, Kebna Studios & Communications Limited, on four charges of allegedly receiving gratification worth about N1bn from Bestworth Insurance Brokers. According to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Bestworth Insurance Brokers had paid Dikki N1bn for helping to facilitate the approval of outstanding insurance premiums and claims of deceased and incapacitated staff of the Power Holding Company of Nigeria. Delivering his ruling on a bail application on Wednesday, Justice Yusuf Halilu, said, “Contrary to the argument of the prosecution that if granted bail, the defendant would not make himself available for trial; there is no material place before the court to justify this”, he said. He stated that the defendant did not commit a capital offence like treason. Halilu said, “Then this court will have no option than to grant the defendant bail. The accused shall provide two sureties who must be reputable Nigerian residents of FCT.” “They must provide evidence of their residence, the title documents of their houses, which must be in Wuse, Garki, Asokoro and Maitama with the registrar of this court. “The accused should deposit his travel documents with the registrar and must make an undertaking not to travel out of Nigeria without an order from this court. “Both sureties should equally make an undertaking to pay back to the coffers of the federal government, the said amount totalling N1bn, that is N500m each, in the event that the first defendant jumps bail.” .Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   