Nike Popoola The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria said it has launched its new syllabus to address identified skills gap and provide an overall grasp of critical knowledge and skills in banking and finance industry. The Chairman, Capacity Building and Certification Committee, CIBN, Mr Rotimi Omotoso, said this while delivering his remarks at the virtual roadshow with the key stakeholders of the institute in the South-South and South-East Nigeria on the new banking professional examination syllabus with theme ‘The syllabus for bankers of today and the future’. Head, Marketing/Corporate Communication & External Relations, CIBN, Nelson Olagundoye, disclosed this in a statement on Monday titled ‘CIBN launches new syllabus to address identified skills gap’. Omotoso told over 1,000 participants who connected to the event across the zones through zoom that the content of the new syllabus was contemporary, robust and produced around the present needs and future demands of the 21st century professional banker, which combined professional rigours with robust practical application to provide the expected fountain of knowledge. He stated that the syllabus represented a bold resolve to address the competency gap in the banking industry, adding that this was one of the conscious efforts in implementing the competency framework, as well as ensuring that the banking industry remained in the cutting edge of the global developments in the banking profession. Also speaking at the event, the Registrar/Chief Executive Officer, CIBN, Mr ‘Seye Awojobi, who was represented by the Director, Capacity Building and Certification, CIBN, Mr Segun Shonubi, added that the institute reviews its banking professional examinations syllabus every five years to ensure that the content were contemporary, and cover emerging relevant issues within and outside the banking and finance industry. He also stated that new syllabus was the ninth in the history of the institute and it showed the commitment to developing competencies that were relevant, futuristic and in sync with the current trends in the banking industry. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  