Maiharaji Altine, Gusau The Zamfara State Police Command has deployed additional reinforcement to Jangebe, as tension remained high in the rustic town following a clash between parents of the freed schoolgirls and security agents. Following the uproar, the state government imposed a dusk-to-dawn curfew to prevent further breach of peace and security in the area. READ ALSO: Buhari orders security beef up around borders Speaking with The PUNCH on Thursday, the police spokesperson in the state, Mohammed Shehu said, “More security personnel, under the supervision of the Area Commander have been drafted to Jangebe town to ensure the restoration of peace in the area and to ensure compliance with the curfew.” Meanwhile, a parent of one of the freed schoolgirls, Musa Jangebe, told our correspondent that he was not happy with the delay by the state government to handle the children back to their parents. ALSO READ: States yet to meet conditions won’t get COVID-19 vaccines –FG Jangebe said, “Most of us are annoyed with the state government for not reuniting us with our children in good time. “We were told to come to Jangebe for our children and we have been in the school since morning but up to evening time, we have not even set our eyes on the children.” Another parent, Alhaji Sama’ila, said the government was playing with their intelligence and that was why they grew annoyed and resorted to violence. “I was in the Government House, Gusau, as early as six o’clock when the girls were taken there after they were rescued and I asked if I could be allowed to go home with my daughter but they asked me to wait until they were taken to their school. “I rushed to their school in Jangebe where I waited for several hours and to my utmost dismay, the delegation that brought the girls kept them in a hall. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Buhari, Osinbajo to receive COVID-19 vaccines Saturday “We told them that time was going and we wanted to go home before nightfall but they still refused to release the girls, as such, we decided to go into the hall to meet our children. “The security personnel wanted to chase us away but they could not do so because of our number, as such, they shot in the air to disperse the crowd but nobody was moved by their actions.”