Wale Oyewale, Ibadan SOME members of the Oyo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party, have raised the alarm over alleged moves by the party leadership select rather than allow the election of candidates to fly the party’s flag in the coming election into the 33 Local Government Areas in the state. The state Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Alhaji Akeem Olatunji, had on Friday, announced the withdrawal of the list of Returning Officers for party congress hinting that the party hierarchy preferred to select. The party leadership in Itesiwaju Local Government Area of the state, on Sunday, in a statement signed by its Local Organising Secretary, Mr. Lamuye Oni, said the selection approach was illegal. The statement read in part, “The PDP is the most democratic in its doings and actions, it will never indulge in illegality, more so, the Oyo State chapter, where we have Governor Seyi Makinde as party leader, who is progressive by nature and disposition, he will not fall for anything other than what the party constitution dictates. “Solution to the perceived wrongs on the list of the Returning Officers is not selection of candidates for the coming local government election. Such an idea is only coming from those who are weak in their respective councils and who only want to cover up with the tailor-made argument against the returning officers list. “They bombarded our state party officers and proposed a selection method which they believed to be a saving grace, knowing full well that their closeness to the corridors of power will enable them to have an edge. “Selection of candidates for any election is obviously another method of imposition which will be counterproductive as there are other party members who may not have the opportunity to be close to the governor, but very relevant and grounded in their domains believe that selection option will shortchange such people.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   