Nike Popoola Cadbury Nigeria, a part of Mondelēz International, and makers of the iconic Bournvita, has rewarded the top three winning schools in the second edition of the ‘Bourn Factor school talent hunt competition’, which took place nationwide, in 2020. A statement titled ‘Cadbury Nigeria rewards Bourn Factor Season 2 winners’, said on Tuesday. The statement said dthe winners were unveiled at the company’s head office in Lagos, recently. It stated that, “Divine  Promotion  Nursery  and  Primary School  in  Ile-Ife,  Osun  State,  won  the  grand  prize  of N3m. “Success Foundation Academy in Abeokuta, Ogun State, which came second, won N2m, while Potter and Clay Schools in Ilesha, Osun State, in the third position, won N1m.” During the prize presentation, the Managing Director, Cadbury Nigeria, Mrs Oyeyimika Adeboye, said “The  Bourn Factor  initiative  was  launched  in  2019  to  enable  children  from  different  primary schools across  the  country showcase  their  talents,  compete, and  win  prizes  for their  schools, while raising money towards a social cause.” Adeboye added that the initiative was in line with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals that sought to build sustainable communities. She said, “Last  year,  we  worked  with  the  first prize winner to  set  up  an  Information  and Communication Technology  facility for their school.” “We helped the second prize winner to renovate their school premises and  worked  with  the  third winning  school  to  set  up  a play ground and  a  borehole. “This year, we will partner with all the three wining schools to achieve their goals. “We will also donate products to orphanages chosen by the winning schools. This will inculcate in the children, the habit of selfless giving.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    