The months of March, April and May have been chronologically stacked for Muslim and Christian devotees’ fasting seasons. These much-anticipated religious observations have now gone beyond the theological concept, as we have gradually seen it interwoven in our everyday lives, primarily borne out of a desire to achieve something better or greater than one’s present state. For example, we are gradually becoming accustomed to the term – Intermittent fasting – as employed by individuals who have a goal or target for their health and wellbeing. Fasting can be defined as deliberate abstinence from physical gratification for a specified period to achieve a greater goal. It is the intentional and wilful denying of self, which includes wants, needs or pleasure for a more satisfying or desired purpose. In the religious parlance, be it Lent Season or Ramadan, fasting is commonly described as denying self from food, things, and activities we love. It is a time to reflect, be pious, disciplined, and exhibit self-control. Regardless of religion or faith, there are undoubtedly valuable life lessons to learn from this fasting period that will improve not only one’s daily living but also financial management skills. It is interesting to observe that the financial management concept also comprises discipline, self-control, self-denial, purposeful living, and strategic planning, which are also fundamental tenets of the fasting seasons. This edition highlights vital lessons gleaned from the fasting season that can equip us to manage our finances purposefully. As we take time to reflect on these lessons from fasting, it is imperative to take actionable steps. One effective resolution is to take up an insurance policy that helps you in managing your finances. With Leadway Assurance Company Limited, you are assured of a five-decade experience that would guide you in this novel financial journey. Make the decision now to speak to a Leadway Assurance Financial Management and Wealth Creation and Protection Expert to handhold you into a world of smart financial decision making. You can call our customer care service helpline on 01-2800-700. You can also send an email to Lcs@leadway.com for inquiries or request a call back by visiting www.leadway.com/call-me. In the same vein, we are within your reach on social media – @LeadwayAssurance on Facebook & Instagram, @Leadwayinsure on Twitter; all you need to do is send a DM, and we will send you all the information you require.