ALEXANDER OKERE The Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, on Saturday denied bearing any ill will towards his predecessor and former national chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomhole. Obaseki, however, said he disliked the former governor’s style of politics. He disclosed these at the centenary birthday thanksgiving of Msgr Thomas Oleghe and the 18th canonical erection anniversary of the Diocese of Auchi held at Immaculate Conception Cathedral, Auchi, Etsako-West Local Government Area of the state. READ ALSO: Buni-led APC committee, a constitutional violation –Buhari’s ex-minister, Dalung Obaseki and Oshiomhole had fallen out prior to the September 2020 governorship election, prompting the governor to defect to the Peoples Democratic Party on which platform he won the election. But the former governor, who exchanged pleasantries with his predecessor, said they both had the interest of Edo and Nigeria at heart. “I don’t have anything personal against Oshiomhole. I may not like his politics, but he has not done anything personal against me. We all are interacting with the interest of the country and the development of our community at heart,” he said. In a statement by the governor’s Special Adviser, Media, Crusoe Osagie, Oshiomhole was quoted as describing Obaseki as “his brother and friend”. The former governor added, “Once the governor speaks, the matter ends. The governor knows that pensioners here might not be able to do much, that is why he said every other thing required to complete the hostel of the Catholic School of Nursing and Midwifery in Uzairue, his government will do.” YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Lagos heading towards wrong direction since Tinubu’s days — Bode George Meanwhile, Obaseki explained that the zonal congress of the PDP earlier scheduled to hold on Saturday (yesterday) was postponed due to the local government elections in Delta State. He said, “The zonal congress, which was to hold today (Saturday) has been postponed to Tuesday and it’s a normal routine to satisfy the party’s constitution; there is nothing amiss.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 