Chidiebube Okeoma, Owerri THE founder of Movement for the Actualisation of  Sovereign State of Biafra and leader Biafra Independent Movement, Ralph Uwazuruike, on Monday accused the leader of Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, of allegedly inciting ethnic cleansing in the South-East zone and parts of the South-South region. At a press conference in Owerri, the Imo state capital, Uwazuruike accused Kanu, whom he said he recruited “into the struggle” of brainwashing Igbo youths into taking arms against the Federal Government. Describing Kanu as “a nobody”, Uwazuruike called on the South-East Governors’ Forum to take Eastern Security Network from Kanu. “If Nnamdi Kanu, repents tomorrow, I will commend him. We will talk about Biafra even if Igbo man becomes president. Governors should take ENS from Kanu. Train them, equip them and use them better.” “I am congratulating Governor Wike of Rivers State for rescuing the situation in Obigbo. I am also congratulating Governor Hope Uzodinma of Imo State for his approach in handing the situation in Orlu. “I am not part of the Nigerian system but when anybody does well, I will commend, and if anybody does bad, I will also talk,” Uwazuruike said. He said Kanu couldn’t have encouraged the ESN operatives to take up arms against the Federal Government if he was living in Nigeria. He said, “I started this struggle over 20 years ago. I recruited everybody who is part of this struggle today. We started before politics came in. Politicians started sponsoring people among us and we started having divisions among us. Taking arms against the government is now a problem to Ndigbo and Nigeria. “We feel disturbed; I also feel disturbed. Many people are killed by ourselves, not only herdsmen. When you attract military, they kill Igbo. They are not killing Fulani herdsmen. The military are not killing themselves. I am more worried. The accusing finger is always on me because I started this struggle. “At no point will Ndigbo go to war against any tribe or Nigeria. Brains of the young ones in Igbo land being bastardised. They are humiliating Igbo leaders in the land of struggle. I condemn that act in its entirety. “They started in Obigbo, Rivers State, now is Orlu. What is happening in Igbo land? The killings are a concern to all of us. The future is bleak as far we are concerned. “They can’t defeat Nigeria. This situation needs to be nipped in the bud. Some governors have tried; Wike has tried. We must not allow anarchy to prevail. I congratulate Uzodinma on his approach to the problem in Orlu. “We must work hard not to allow this group to turn this place into a state of war. Don’t denigrate governors, stop insulting Ohanaeze Ndigbo. So many people are killed without records.” He also hailed Uzodinma, for insisting on recovering diverted public assets from a former governor of the state, Rochas Okorocha, saying, “It is bad to convert public assets into personal belongings.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  