Kayode Oyero Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, on Friday, said no particular amount has been fixed for compensation to pacify members of the Amalgamated Union of Foodstuff and Cattle Dealers in Nigeria who called off their strike on Wednesday. Bello, who spoke on Channels Television’s ‘Politics Today’ programme monitored by The PUNCH, however, stressed the need for the traders to be compensated for their losses. The PUNCH had reported that the governor met the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), as part of ongoing efforts to further pacify the northern traders. READ ALSO: Ambode absent as Tinubu, Sanwo-Olu inaugurate Agege-Pen Cinema Bridge Members of AUFCDN had blocked the movement of cattle and foodstuffs from the Northern part of the country to the South for almost a week over what they described as incessant attacks on their members in the South and extortion by security agents on highways. But they called off the strike on Wednesday following the intervention of the governor and a former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode. Their President, Muhammad Tahir, had said the strike was called off following the Federal Government’s promise to pay N4.75bn compensation, stop multiple taxes and ensure protection of their members, among others. However, speaking on Friday, Bello said, “The Amalgamated union crisis has been resolved and there are demands and one of the demands is compensation. As I speak to you now, there has not been any number or figure put forward or I have advanced to the Federal Government for compensation; it is just an agreement in principle that okay, we have heard you, please sheathe your swords, return back to your food supply. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: You have few weeks to perform, Buhari tells new service chiefs “So, no figure has been ascertained at all. At least, there should be names, there should be police reports and worth of properties damaged and that has not been given to me by now. “What Mr President has directed is that I should liaised with the police and other security agencies to ensure lives are secured and that extortion stops.” When asked about the N4.75bn compensation demanded by AUFCDN and when the government would pay the traders, the governor said, “There are demands, about four of them and one of them is compensation. Amount to be compensated will be determined as days pass by. Remember there were lives and properties that were destroyed during #EndSARS and the Shasha massacre. So, all these have not been determined. It is not easy, so they couldn’t have come up with a number. “As soon as the numbers are put forward and we are able to aggregate and verify, we shall push it forward.”