Sunday Aborisade, Abuja The Parliamentary Staff Association of Nigeria has issued a six-day ultimatum to the National Assembly and the 36 state assemblies to implement a two-year-old Executive Order 10 or face total shutdown of the legislative arm of government across all tiers of governments. Members of the association from the 36 states of the federation issued the ultimatum when they gathered at the National Assembly complex to register their grievances over the non-implementation of the executive order that denied the state legislatures their financial autonomies. The workers action led to the immediate closure of the National Assembly main gate by the security operatives for about two hours. President of the Association, Mohammed Usman, said there was no going back on the decision. Usman said since the Executive Order 10 was signed into law by the president two years ago, PASAN as a critical stakeholder in the legislative arm of government had made efforts to ensure its implementation. He said PASAN had written the Governors Forum, the speakers of the 36 states and the office of the Auditor General for the Federation to implement the document but all correspondences had not even been responded to. Usman said they followed up by issuing a 21-day ultimatum without any response and then issued the14 days ultimatum, all in line with the Labour Act. He said all the actions fell on deaf ears until their expiration and the current six-day ultimatum. Executive Order 10 (1a) states, “Without prejudice to any other applicable laws, legislations and conventions at the state tier of government, which also provides for financial autonomy of state legislature and state judiciary, allocation of appropriated funds to the state legislature and state judiciary in the state appropriation laws in the annual budget of the state, shall be a charge upon the Consolidated Revenue Fund of the state, as a First Line Charge.” PASAN said the executive order had been ignored in the last two years, leaving the state assemblies at the mercy of the governors. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 