Nike Popoola The President, Chartered Institute of Taxation of Nigeria, Olajumoke Simplice, has urged African countries to avoid policies that will be counterproductive to their recovery from COVID-19. She spoke during the opening ceremony of the 7th International Tax Conference of the West African Union of Tax Institutes in Ikeja Lagos. The conference which had the theme, ‘Designing and implementing tax measures for the COVID-19 era and beyond’, also held virtually and was attended by professionals and dignitaries from different countries. She said, “Expectedly, most countries have enunciated a number of measures to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on their economies. “These measures range from; rebates in tax payments, payroll support to small businesses, social safety nets to cater for low-income earners and the unemployed to mention but a few. “These notwithstanding, it is important that in fashioning appropriate fiscal measures for this era, we should also be futuristic and avoid policies and actions that would be counterproductive on the long run.” In order to create the right fiscal dynamics and resilience for the countries, she said, they must leverage on shared experiences, initiatives and policies bearing in mind the peculiar socio-economic circumstances in our respective countries. While noting the reason for the theme of the event, she said the outbreak of COVID-19 had greatly distorted the political, economic, social, religious and financial structures of the world. She said recovery was a herculean task even for the developed nations of the world with uncertainty still widespread. Quoting the World Bank, she said, “Emerging market and developing economies will be buffeted by economic headwinds from multiple quarters: pressure on weak health care systems, loss of trade and tourism, dwindling remittances, subdued capital flows, and tight financial conditions amid mounting debt.” She added, “It is against this background, that we seek to use the platform of this conference to bring together policy experts, tax administrators, practitioners, to deepen an understanding of the consequences on taxpayers, tax administrations and contribute to the economic recovery of the countries in West Africa by recommending appropriate fiscal measures.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   