The police said they had arrested a suspected cultist and undergraduate of the Rivers State University, Nkpolu, Port Harcourt, for allegedly shooting a fellow student after the semester examination. The spokesman for the state police command, Nnamdi Omoni, disclosed this while speaking with newsmen in his office in Port Harcourt on Monday. Omoni said the victim, Blessing Ogolo, a final year student of Mathematics, was suspected to be a cultist, adding that investigations were ongoing. Ogolo, while recounting his ordeal, said he was shot at by his course mate in the company of others as he came out of the exam hall and denied being a member of any cult. “After my exams, I came out of the class and my course mate, Michael, shot at me with his group. I chased him and took him to the school security men, who said they had handed him over to the police. I am actually receiving treatment, because I sustained some injuries,” he explained. Confirming the arrest, Omoni said it might be rival cults clashing, noting that the suspect was currently being interrogated at the State Criminal Investigation Department. He stated, “Yes, I can confirm the incident where one Blessing Ogolo was shot. Understandably, the same Blessing Ogolo has also been fingered as a cultist. So, it was like a rival cult clash. “The matter is receiving adequate attention. The suspect that has been arrested and is being interrogated and actions are in place with a view to unravelling what happened and bring whoever is culpable to justice.” When contacted, Public Relations Officer of the Rivers State University, Dr Harcourt Whyte, said cultism had no place in the institution and that the matter involving the students was being investigated by the police. “The matter you talk about is currently with the police and they are investigating it. When they are done, I am positive you will be in the know about the outcome,” Whyte said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 