John Alechenu, Abuja THE Peoples Democratic Party, has alleged that the designation of Zamfara State airspace, as a no-fly zone, by the Federal Government, was a ploy by the All Progressives Congress, to forcefully take over the state. National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan said this at a media briefing, in Abuja, on Wednesday. Ologbondiyan said, “The PDP alerts of a sinister plot by the APC and its Federal Government, to forcefully take over the governance of Zamfara State through an imposition of an orchestrated state of emergency. “Our party rejects this attempt by power-mongers in the APC administration to undermine and subvert the democratic order in Zamfara state by creating the impression that the state government, under Governor Bello Matawalle, is to blame for the failures of the APC-led federal government to contain insecurity in the state.” “President Buhari may wish to recall the allegations in the public space of alleged complicity by his National Security Adviser, Gen. Babagana Monguno, in the unfortunate situation in Zamfara state, upon which our party had called for investigation. “Already, Governor Matawalle had declared that Mr. President was misinformed on the decision of imposing a ‘no-fly zone’ on Zamfara, as recommended to him by Gen. Monguno. “It is even more worrisome that the Buhari Presidency will gloss over  Kaduna, Niger and Mr. President’s home state of Katsina, where killings, kidnapping and abduction have become a daily routine, only to be contemplating an emergency situation in Zamfara.” In response, the APC in a statement titled, “President Buhari Will Explore All Legal Means To Protect Nigerians – APC,” signed by the National Secretary, Senator John Akpanudoedehe, said, “President Muhammadu Buhari has declared Zamfara State a ‘no-fly zone’ and banned all mining activities as part of measures to tackle the security challenges witnessed in the state. Predictably, the PDP is in the news playing its tired card of baselessly politicising the presidential directive. “The President as Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces has a constitutional obligation to explore all legal means to protect Nigerians and restore normalcy to areas facing security challenges. Again, as Commander-in-Chief, the President is privy to classified intelligence, which will guide his actions as with his directive on Zamfara State. “While the party commends patriotic interventions and the support particularly from state governors and non‑state actors towards addressing issues of insecurity in the country, anybody willing to test the resolve of our security services to enforce the presidential directive is welcome to do so at his/her peril.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    