Chima Azubuike, Gombe The Gombe State Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation has produced 30,000 pieces of complementary food for the treatment of malnourished children in the state. The state had witnessed stock-out of the Ready to Use Therapeutic Food (RUTF) in some of its Local Government Areas. The Commissioner for Science, Technology and Innovation, Dr. Aisha Maigari, said the feat was achieved with the collaboration of the department of food and nutrition, Federal Teaching Hospital Gombe. Maigari disclosed this at the 3rd Science, Technology, Innovation, Agriculture and Mineral Resources Expo at the Incubation centre, where Governor Inuwa Yahaya, commissioned the centre for the production of complementary food. She said, “It is worthy of note that under this administration, the governor approved the production of complementary feeding for malnourished children and increased the budgetary allocation by 150 per cent.  The governor encouraged us to look inwards and source materials locally. The COVID-19 pandemic has shown us how vulnerable we are. The Ministry of collaborated with relevant agencies in ensuring that production standards are maintained.” The state governor, Inuwa Yahaya, said the collaboration would get the state out of malnutrition. He said despite the abundant food production in the state, Gombe ranked high amongst states wreaked by severe malnutrition, thereby causing high infant mortality. “Because the future of our state belongs to our children and we are duty-bound to ensure that we succeed in our collective goal of building a great, peaceful and prosperous state “Science does not only influence a country’s level of development but also determines its international competitiveness of ranking in the world economy. Similarly, natural resources have been the main drivers of economic development of all nations across the globe. I like assure to you of the government’s commitment to Agriculture and mineral resources development,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    