It is no longer news that today’s women are changing the narrative on breaking the glass ceiling and assuming roles thought to be the men’s exclusive reserves. The world watched as America swore in her first female Vice President, Kamala Harris, on January 20, 2021 and on February 15, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala was appointed the seventh and the first female Director-General of the World Trade Organization (WTO). These women have become beacons of the paradigm shift that has taken hold in today’s reality, be it politics, business, sports, development, or any human endeavour imaginable. This is also a validation of the woman’s innate capacity to take care of the family, from being a caregiver to provider, nurturer, and running businesses and leading organisations. It is for the super-nature endowment that many believed that a woman must have invented multi-tasking. This resourcefulness is becoming more pronounced as more women pivot into entrepreneurship with strong play in the Micro, Small and Medium-scale endeavours. Interestingly, the World Bank estimates that MSMEs contribute up to 40% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of emerging economies. This group also represents about 90% of global businesses, employs more than 50% of the workforce worldwide, making them the critical growth engine of any economy. Indeed, this sector is pivotal to Nigeria’s growth potential, including reducing poverty levels and eradicating the scourge of unemployment in the country. It is safe to say that as more women venture into the MSME space, the realisation of these lustrous objectives would have far-reaching outcomes. That said, this is not a quest that every ambitious woman must undertake without prioritising sustainability and strategic financial planning in wealth creation and management. Recent events, with the most notable being the COVID-19 pandemic, have made us realise that successful investments and businesses are prone to environmental and enterprise risk threats. The fact that these issues are not very visible to us does not preclude their existence. It is smart that these enterprises’ proponents learn to identify these risks and how to manage them. As a woman, management might be easy, but how well do you understand pivoting your strength towards a sustained and secured future. What tools are readily available to you? The strategy is not a one-off engagement but a commitment to a future of perpetual reinvention and guaranteed shock absorbers when things go south. Do you seek to turn the existential threats that might be surrounding you and your business today or even tomorrow into sustainable growth? Do you aspire to build a lasting legacy? Here is what we think might help you. Insurance over the years has fostered a reputation of being the provider of financial security to individuals and businesses when help is needed the most. The best way to turn the threats the business might be facing right now or in the future into sustainable growth is to have an insurance policy in place today. Insurance will give you the needed confidence to navigate business exigencies, knowing you have adequate protection. Leadway Assurance Company Limited, a foremost underwriter reputed for ‘insuring happiness’ in the last five decades, has a range of insurance products that guarantee a secured financial performance of your enterprise and your quest for building a lasting legacy. Start today with comprehensive insurance of your vehicle, your home, and your most-prized asset and then pivot to the full financial protection of your investments and business operations. To learn more about taking these steps, you can reach out to Leadway Assurance professional advisors via our virtual communication channels – 08088578050 Social Media handles @LeadwayAssurance on Facebook & Instagram @Leadwayinsure on Twitter or send an email to Lcs@leadway.com. You can also request a call back from our experienced advisors by visiting www.leadway.com/call-me