Sodiq Oyeleke Police in Oyo State have confirmed the detention of three members of the Odua Peoples Congress who were part of the team that arrested notorious Fulani warlord, Iskilu Wakili, on Sunday morning. The police confirmed this in a press statement on Sunday, warning that people who commit criminal activities would not be spared in the state. The statement titled, ‘Oyo police assures of diligent prosecution of suspected criminals’, was signed by Ogun Police Public Relations Officer, Fadeyi Olugbenga. OPC sector coordinator, Adedeji Oluwole, had raised the alarm that three of OPC operatives were detained for allegedly arresting notorious Wakili, who has been accused of sundry crimes in the Ayete area of Ibarapaland in the state. But the police said the three OPC members were detained for alleged murder and arson. It alleged that one person died in the process of arresting Wakili, adding that the warlord’s house was also set ablaze. READ ALSO: Notorious Fulani warlord Iskilu Wakili arrested in Oyo Part of the statement read, “The State Commissioner of Police has quickly moved into action and preliminary findings revealed that some OPC members went to Kajola community in Ibarapa North Local government Area of Oyo State. “While there, the house of the Wakili in question was set ablaze, while a female (the identity of who is yet to be ascertained) was burnt in the fire and Wakili (about 75 years old and blind) with two other persons were picked up. READ ALSO: CBN ‘naira-4-dollar’ policy may increase foreign remittance to $34bn “The three of them are presently in the custody of the Police. The Commissioner of Police has directed that Wakili (due to his frail appearance and state of health), be moved to the Hospital, while others are being interrogated. Others being interrogated are the OPC members, involved in arson and murder. “Meanwhile, the Oyo State Police Command wishes to inform the general public that any person or group of persons from any region or tribe that has been found culpable to have committed any criminal act (s) in the State would not be spared, but would be arrested and dealt with according to extant laws. READ ALSO: Nigerians seek help for UI medical school dropout-turned porter “Therefore, it is worthy of note that the good people of Oyo State and the general public should rest assured that the officers and men in the Command would not derelict in its duty to bring to book criminal elements arrested for any infringement on the laws of the land, as adequate security measures have been emplaced against anything untoward while soliciting credible information from members of the public to enable the Police and other Security Agencies clampdown on crime and criminality in the State.”