Kayode Oyero The Federal Government says eligible Nigerians will receive the same jabs of the AstraZeneca/Oxford COVID-19 vaccine administered to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Executive Director, National Primary Health Care Development Agency, Dr Faisal Shuaib, stated this on Monday at the briefing of the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 in Abuja. Nigeria rolled out its vaccination programme against the coronavirus infection on Friday. The President and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo were vaccinated against the virus on Saturday on Live TV to demonstrate the safety of the vaccine and dissipate vaccine hesitancy amongst Nigerians. Nigerians who wish to receive the vaccines are enjoined to register on the website of the NPHCDA. Speaking on Monday, Shuaib said, “What this launch means is that the COVID-19 vaccination programme has commenced in Nigeria. It is important to stress that the President and other strategic leaders received their vaccine from the same 3.924million doses of AstraZeneca/Oxford COVID-19 vaccine delivered to Flag of Nigeria last week. “There is no difference between the vaccine received by the president and the vaccine that will be administered to other eligible Nigerians. “It is our belief that this public and practical endorsement of the vaccine will build the trust, encourage and motivate the general public in the acceptance and uptake of the COVID-19 vaccine during the vaccination campaign. “As previously mentioned, in preparation for the vaccination campaign, the Presidential Task Force through the NPHCDA and in collaboration with donors and development partners, developed operational and training manuals to train over 100.000 health workers (which has commenced) at National, State, LGA and Health facility levels for the seamless deployment of the vaccines to the designated population.” Continuing, the NPHCDA boss said, “The movement of vaccines to the States has commenced today. All things being equal, the delivery of the vaccines will be completed tomorrow. The delivery of the vaccines to the States is predicated on satisfactorily meeting the conditions to keep them safe and potent. “The state launch of the COVID-19 vaccination for frontline health worker is slated for March 9th at the State Treatment Centers, barring any prevailing local conditions, most Governors have agreed to flag-off on March 10th, while the State-wide rollout of COVID-19 vaccine will commence from the 12th of March. “It is expected that States will roll out vaccination only when Local Government Areas have met the minimum criteria for successful conduct of the campaigns. Parameters such as – training, cold chain status, preposition of data tools, availability of transport/logistics for healthcare workers, adequate security for vaccines, etc should be the yardsticks for going ahead with implementation.”