Eniola Akinkuotu, Abuja The South-East zone of the Peoples Democratic Party has given Kogi-West Senator, Smart Adeyemi, seven days to apologise to Abia State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, for describing him as a drunk. The demand is contained in a statement titled, ‘South-East PDP demands immediate apology from Senator Adeyemi to Governor Ikpeazu,’ which was signed by its Public Relations Officer, Augustin Okeke, on Monday. Adeyemi, while speaking at the Senate chamber last week, said Abia was being governed by drunks, adding that the governor was only known for drinking champagne. His outburst was in reaction to an earlier statement credited to Abia South Senator and Minority Leader, Eyinnaya Abaribe, which Abaribe denied ever making. In its reaction, however, the South-East PDP said it wondered why Senator Adeyemi, a non-indigene, non-resident, who arguably owns no property or investment in any part or territory of Abia State, could resort to “such untoward and derogatory language to qualify a citizen of Nigeria much less a governor.” The statement read in part, “For someone whose name is Smart, for someone whose status is (supposedly) preceded with the appendage ‘distinguished’, such hollow utterances from the congressman from Kogi – full of hatred, dereliction, opprobrium, contempt, bile – which has nothing smart or distinguished about it, is an unconscionable desecration of the hallowed red chambers of the National Assembly, which if left unchecked may lead to the misconstruing of the senate chamber as a breeding ground for the use of gutter language. “It would have been understandable, albeit inexcusable, if there were any iota of truth in the allegations that Senator Adeyemi leveled against the person of Governor Okezie Ikpeazu as the incumbent governor of Abia State.” The South-East PDP condemned the disrespect to the Abia State governor, the state government, people of Abia State and the entire members of PDP in the South-East zone. “Consequent upon this, the Zonal Working Committee of the PDP, South East Zone, hereby demands that Senator Adeyemi publicly apologises to Governor Ikpeazu – within seven days – for this unprovoked defamation of character. “Failure of Senator Smart Adeyemi to do this would leave the ZWC of PDP, South East zone with no other option than taking every necessary measure to seek redress, including but not limited to instituting a libel suit against Senator Adeyemi,” the statement read. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   