Tony Okafor, Awka THE Chairman, United Nigeria Airline, Dr Obiora Okonkwo, on Monday, declared interest in the Anambra State Governorship election scheduled for November 6, 2021. Okonkwo, made his interest public at an event at the Anambra State Secretariat of the Peoples Democratic Party, in Awka. According to him, he was joining the race in response to the yearnings of the people of the state for good governance. He said, “Very little exists in the state capital, Awka, by way of critical public infrastructure as many key government institutions continue to operate from the same makeshift structures they have been using since 1991. “One can only visit other state capitals around the country, many of which were created several years after Anambra State, to better appreciate the very poor physical condition of our state capital, Awka, with respect to basic infrastructure. A state that prides itself as the light of the nation should do much better. “Roughly 10 years ago, Anambra was widely acclaimed as having the best intra-state network of roads in the country. Today, very sadly, most of those roads have fallen into major disrepair due to abandonment and poor maintenance culture. “Good roads, functional public hospitals, pipe-born water, regular power supply, good public transportation, among others, are just the basics any serious government should help provide for its people. “Having listened to the yearnings of our people for a government that will be responsive to their needs and in total obedience to the will of God, I solemnly declare before you my intention to contest for the office of governor of Anambra State in the governorship election fixed for November 6, 2021.” The state PDP Chairman, Ndubuisi Nwobu, in his short remarks assured all aspirants that the party would provide a level playing field for all of them to compete for the party’s. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   