Executive Director, Credit & Enterprise Risk Management, Brent Mortgage Bank Limited, Mrs Adeola Simon, in this interview with NIKE POPOOLA, tells how Nigeria’s mortgage banking subsector is reacting to the impact of the coronavirus pandemic, among other issues How are mortgage banks coping with the Federal Government’s promotion of its N100bn Family Home Fund which is part of the social housing programme? I think this is a great development and a good start to where we need to be. The goal is to provide affordable housing of over 500,000 units and create 1.5 million jobs which represent a good start and reinvigoration to the housing sector. The bank is fully ready to cater to Nigerians who wish to tap into this opportunity for home ownership by partnering with cooperatives whose members have chosen to participate in such project. The efforts of Development Bank of Nigeria, Shelter Afrique and the like will go a long way in creating trust and awareness for such programmes which will aid in closing the gap in housing deficit which was estimated to be over 19 million in 2019. Do you think the government needs to create further enabling environment for the mortgage banking to thrive in Nigeria? The solution to all our problems do not solely lie with the government. However, it does need to play an active and primary role in enabling a thriving mortgage industry. A few things are slowly being put in place that can positively impact the next normal wave, as companies adjust to new way of doing things after the COVID-19 pandemic. For example, CAMA 2020 introduced the acceptance of electronic signatures which can greatly help in terms of doing business digitally at home and in the diaspora. Many of the challenges faced by mortgage banks and lending institutions in general arise from laws and processes that need to be improved. Laws surrounding foreclosure, enforceability of contracts and processes such as registration and transfer of title and survey and so on need to be enhanced and/or defined, perhaps even improved to include digital access. How has your bank been able to adapt through the COVID-19 pandemic? The bank has really stepped up its effort to remain ahead of the times. We are well aware that to survive in times like this, we have to focus on ways to make things safer, easier, faster and more convenient for our customers, staff and all stakeholders. Some ways in which we have reacted to the pandemic have been centred around digitally reaching our clients and automating many of our services. On the digital marketing front, we have vastly improved our website which allowed us to use data analytics to create a digital footprint. We have also automated our loan process to allow our customers apply for loans seamlessly from any part of the world. We are able to hold team and customer meetings virtually and have also activated a Remote Work Plan to deal with ‘the next normal’. All these efforts have really grown our business while enhancing the lives of all stakeholders. What is the way forward for the growth of mortgage banking as it works to develop the real estate sector? The way forward is to continue to partner with credible developers and continue to create affordable mortgages. The role of mortgage banks in Nigeria is to focus on their core mandate of mortgage creation. Partnering with credible developers creates a win-win situation especially for Nigerians in the Diaspora who may depend on the trust they can place in a financial institution as many have been exposed to fraud and scams in their quest to own a property back home in Nigeria. The bank is currently in partnership with few credible developers who we have reviewed and studied over a period of time to ensure they have sound business ethics and are conscious of sustainability. You have had robust banking experience in top United  States banks before returning to Nigeria. In the present economy, do you foresee the possibility of mortgage banks in Nigeria replicating what is obtainable in a more developed economy like the United Kingdom, where housing finance is affordable and available to everyone? This would be the optimal situation but I don’t think that it is possible right now in the present economy. Economic realities aside, the idea is not to be like other countries as we have to understand what our culture and morals are, which is very different from that of other countries. Nigeria is not a highly geared credit society and many would think about borrowing from family members before institutions. This intrinsic factor alone portends a big problem. Also, many of the risk factors that affect rate and availability are well catered for as these countries have a well-structured and proven legal system to protect lending institutions. This structured system is in place to protect the banks as well as the consumers therefore the risk level attached is greatly reduced. It is said that Nigeria’s mortgage subsector constitutes about 2.5 per cent of our GDP compared to the United Kingdom’s 80 per cent, South Africa’s contributes 50 per cent while Ghana does about 30 per cent. Why is this so? Some research actually suggest that the number is lower. In addition to our cultural and behavioural approach that shies away from formal lending, the subsector is plagued with the issue of lack of awareness and understanding of mortgage products and offerings. Affordability is also a huge factor as many Nigerians who need mortgages are unable to pass the affordability tests of debt to income, minimum equity requirements and lack the funds necessary to pay for title registration, survey etc. The cost of taking a mortgage can be huge with the main attraction being the potential increase in property values one may enjoy in the future. This low number can also be attributed to the many issues surrounding weak legal framework, lengthy and cumbersome foreclosure process and the unfavorable Land Use Act to name a few. It has been well established that 75 per cent of Nigerians are between the ages of 0-34 years old representing a huge chunk of the population. This is the segment where I believe the mortgage deepening conversation should be centered around. The banking public often construes a mortgage bank for a microfinance bank. What is responsible for this? Unfortunately, there has been poor public awareness of mortgage banks for so many reasons but our association and regulators are working to give the subsector greater visibility. A mortgage bank is a specialised bank and is very different in operations and volume from commercial and microfinance banks. There are only 36 mortgage banks licensed by the CBN compared to hundreds of microfinance banks and the huge commercial banks. Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria is the custodian of the National Housing Fund. How has it mitigated issues some Nigerians encountered when it comes to accessing NHF loans? The FMBN has improved on their processes and procedures and the staff are now goal-directed. Major issues affecting guaranteeing of NHF loans by PMBs have now been resolved. Therefore, more states and private companies have resumed contributing to the National Housing Fund. FMBN has also come up with ingenious ways of solving their problems on estate development loans. I think these have gone a long way in mitigating issues. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 