The Constitution Review Committee, which was set up by the Caretaker/ Extra-Ordinary National Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressives Congress to review the party’s constitution, will first consider recommendations made by the Muiz Banire committee, Sunday PUNCH has learnt. Our correspondent gathered in Abuja on Saturday that the Prof. Tahir Mamman -led committee is to review the over 80 recommendations made by Banire and his team during a similar exercise under the leadership of Chief John Odigie-Oyegun. A member of the party caucus, who confirmed this development on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorised to speak to the media on the issue, said, “The work of our current constitution amendment is half way done because they already have a copy of the report of the Banire committee report. “Banire and his team did a very thorough work but unfortunately the crisis in the party didn’t allow us to go through with the entire process to make it become law before now. “The issue of indiscipline is one area it did a lot of work. There is a lot of indiscipline going on in the party and we intend to put a stop to it. “This committee will review these recommendations especially areas where a consensus has already been built then it will take into account new recommendations from the memos being submitted and everything should be ready before our convention.” Recall that the Banire committee had recommended among other things, that the Board of Trustees be replaced by an Elders’ Council. This recommendation will lead to the alteration of Articles 13 and 20 of the APC Constitution (2014) as amended. Specifically, Article 13.2 (A) of the APC Constitution 2014 states that the “BoT shall be the embodiment of the conscience, soul and the sanctity of the party and shall be the mirror of the highest standard of morality in the party and shall mediate on the recommendations of NEC in all disputes and crises in the party to ensure its stability at all times.” The amendment is also to affect Article 20 which deals with the issue of elections and appointments, nomination of candidates as well as criteria for such nominations. Fresh memos submitted by a team of women who are members of the party recommended parity between the male and female gender in appointive and elective positions. The Minister of Women Affairs, Paullen Tallen, who led the delegation said, “We demand affirmative action. You will agree with me that women toil and give the highest votes in all the elections. The absence of women in the party structure is what bothers women. We are here to demand for the amendment.” The youth representative in the caretaker committee, Ismail Ahmed, had also proposed the setting up of a youth directorate as well as a mandatory provision for all the APC elected and appointed public office holders to visit their constituencies at least once every quarter to explain government policies and programmes. However, the spokesperson for the group of Concerned APC Members, Abdullahi Dauda, said, “The whole idea of a constitution amendment is to buy additional time for this caretaker committee. There is no point deceiving ourselves; this is something that the new party leadership should be doing when we elect them at our convention.”    ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 