An Ondo Magistrates’ court has ordered the remand of a farmer identified as Israel Kumuyi, who allegedly raped a 10-year-old girl, Esther Friday, to death at Akinfosile town in the Okitipupa Local Government Area of the state, The 27-year-old man was arrested by the state police command in February and arraigned him before the magistrates’ court in Akure, the state capital. The prosecutor, Inspector Uloh Goodluck, said the offence contravened sections 316, 319(1) of the Criminal Code Cap 37, Vol. 1 Laws of the Ondo State of Nigeria 2006. The prosecutor claimed that Ikumuyi lured the victim into his room with the promise of giving her N100 and forcefully had sex with her while his family was searching for her. At the sitting, the defendant pleaded not guilty to the offence but his plea was not taken. The presiding magistrate, Tope Aladejana, ordered that the defendant should be remanded in Owo Correctional Service Centre pending the outcome of the advice of the Director of Public Prosecution. He adjourned the case till May 3, 2021 for mention. Meanwhile, a 70-year-old man, Danladi Habibu, has been arrested by the Katsina Police Command for allegedly defiling and impregnating a 14-year-old girl. The girl was said to be hawking for her parents when the suspect allegedly took advantage of her. The spokesman for the police in the state, SP Gambo Isah, confirmed the arrest on Friday during the parade of 18 suspects recently arrested by the command from various parts of the state. The suspects were alleged to have committed various offences including rape, cultism, human trafficking and possession of counterfeit currencies, among others. Four of the suspects were arrested for allegedly being in possession of fake American dollar, CFA currency and naira notes running into millions. Four suspects including Habibu were paraded for alleged rape while five suspended students at a university were accused of cultism. Others paraded included two suspected miscreants otherwise known as Kauraye alleged to be terrorising their communities. Also paraded was an agent of a human trafficking syndicate from whom police said they rescued 11 victims. “The victims comprising nine females and two males were rescued while being ferried to Niger Republic on their way to Europe,” Isah added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   