Kayode Oyero Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has threatened to name those benefitting from the perennial traffic gridlock and disorderliness experienced along the Apapa corridor in the state. Sanwo-Olu stated this on Wednesday in Lagos while commending the Nigerian Ports Authority for the new E-Call Up system for trucks going to the ports. [READ ALSO] Insecurity: Buhari’s silence endorses Gumi’s dangerous statements –CAN The Apapa area of the state is notorious for chaos over the haphazard operations of container-laden trucks around the seaports. At an event in Lagos today, the governor said, “We will name and shame them. We will bring out their names, be it a corporate organisation, be it a company, be it a Lagos State officer, be it a police officer, whoever it is, be it a union that will say that the solution that we have brought about will not work. “They will go and answer to the citizen of Nigeria and the citizen of Lagos State and the citizen of Nigeria. We will bring them to the public courts for them to see that we are about seriousness; we cannot condone the recklessness and the carelessness that our citizens have gone through. [YOU MAY ALSO LIKE] Savage beating: Babcock senior assaults fresher over slippers “And I want to use this opportunity to commend the Management of NPA because they have worked with us on this agenda. So, my challenge is to others who have not signed on to this wonderful column system.” NPA Managing Director, Hadiza Bala-Usman, had assured port users that e-call up system would address irresponsible parking of trucks on port access roads in Apapa. The e-call up system was designed for the management of truck movement and access to and from the Lagos Ports Complex and the Tin Can Island Ports, Apapa. ICYMI: Covid vaccines not allotted to rich people –FG The Apapa corridor had been a nightmare for road users and Sanwo-Olu had last year said the Lagos State Government had started the process of taking over the operations of the Presidential Task Force on Port Decongestion that had been managing the traffic gridlock in the area.