Men of the Lagos State Police Command have arrested an ex-convict, Taiwo Sunmonu, for allegedly dispossessing unsuspecting members of the public of their valuables in the Ijanikin area of the state. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi, said in a statement on Sunday that Sunmonu was recently released from the Kirikiri Correctional Centre, adding that a locally-made pistol was recovered from him following his arrest. He said, “The Lagos State Police Command arrested one Taiwo Sunmonu, 23, on Saturday, March 13, 2021, around 11.30pm, for armed robbery after he was released from the Kirikiri Correctional Centre in November 2020, having served a five-year jail term. “The suspect was arrested by police operatives attached to the Ijanikin Division while responding to a distress call, as the suspect and his gang members were robbing unsuspecting Lagosians on Ajayi Street, Oto Awori, Ijanikin. But other members of the gang escaped. “The suspect has confessed to the crime and other crimes he had participated in. After the arrest, one locally-made pistol and live ammunition were recovered from him.” In another development, Adejobi said a brave victim, George Bankole, struggled with some armed robbers, who attacked him on March 12, 2021, around 8pm at the Fadal Cooperative Estate in Ikorodu and recovered a locally-made pistol with live cartridges from them. The PPRO stated, “The victim informed the police that the armed men dispossessed him of his mobile phones and bags before they eventually escaped. He summoned the courage to proceed to the Ikorodu Division, Igbogbo, to report the incident and hand over the arms for further investigation. Police operatives have embarked on discreet investigation of the matter. “The Commissioner of Police has directed that the suspects be transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department, Panti, Yaba, for further investigation and prosecution. He also restated his commitment to consistently decimate criminals and hoodlums in the state as all hands are on the deck to have effective policing of Lagos State.”    ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 