Three persons have been confirmed dead following the outbreak of a strange disease suspected to be caused by food poisoning in the Kano metropolis. The outbreak, which occurred last Thursday, was said to have been caused by contaminated water and local drink. The Director, Disease Control, Kano State Ministry of Health, Dr Bashir Lawan, confirmed the number of deaths in a telephone interview with The PUNCH on Tuesday. READ ALSO: Delta housewife kills husband with machete on arrival from sleeping outside  The official said the health ministry officials are currently in a meeting with the commissioner on the issue. “I’m currently with the commissioner of Health, so, call me later so that I can give you an update and details on the issue,” the director said. However, a reliable source in the ministry told our correspondent on the condition of anonymity that no fewer than 200 affected persons are currently receiving medical attention at various health facilities in the state. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Countries complaining about Nigeria’s multiple foreign exchange rates – Okonjo-Iweala “The ministry has designated about eight facilities for the treatment of the infected persons following the rising number of cases,” the source said. While giving an update, the State Commissioner of Health, Dr Aminu Ibrahim Tsanyawa, confirmed that no fewer than 284 were hospitalised following the outbreak of the strange disease, which broke out five days ago in the Kano metropolis. He said based on statistics gathered, the affected people contracted the strange disease across three local government areas of the state. He said in an effort to promptly address the challenge, the Ministry for Health taskforce had so far seized items that caused the outbreak of the disease worth over N59 million. He, however, disclosed that samples of the affected patients had been taken and sent to Abuja for analysis. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: CAN tackles FG in court over CAMA, assembles 30 lawyers According to him, the affected victims are currently receiving medical attention at three health facilities, including Murtala Mohammad Specialist Hospital Kano, Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital, and Abdullahi Wase Specialist Hospital among others. Following the outbreak of the disease, the National Agency for Food, Drug Administration and Control had since collected water samples and flavour products for laboratory analysis in its laboratory in Kaduna.