DAUD OLATUNJI Six persons have been arrested by men of the Ogun State Police Command over protracted Obaship tussle in Ikenne-Remo area of Ogun State. Four persons were injured during the violence involving Agbekoya and some suspected thugs who allegedly damaged property. The suspects reportedly unleashed terror in the area following the controversial Obaship tussle now a subject of litigation. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this on Saturday in a statement. Oyeyemi said a crisis broke out in the town on Friday following the decision of the reigning Oba of the town, Oba Onakade, to celebrate a traditional festival known as “Jabajaba.” The police spokesperson said a town crier was sent round the community for the preparatory rites, adding that it didn’t go down well with the opposing side who allegedly attacked the town crier and seized the gong. He said, “They also accused the monarch of trying to forcefully fence off a piece of land where traditional rites are performed in the town.  This led to a fracas between the two parties, following which the two sides suffered some injuries and some homes damaged. “Policemen led by the Area Commander Shagamu were quickly deployed to the area and the situation was brought under control.” He added that the Commissioner of Police Ogun State, Edward Ajogun, moved to the town for an on-the-spot assessment and peace talk. He said, “The CP who met separately with the two opposing sides, warned them to eschew violence and follow due process to resolve their differences. “While the CP and his entourage were still on the peace mission within the town, information was received that  some people suspected to have  hired thugs and Agbekoyas, popular Yoruba  hunters’  group, were shooting indiscriminately in retaliation against their property allegedly damaged, and in the process, injured about four people. “The CP then ordered that they should be chased and brought to book. It is pertinent to note that no death is recorded contrary to rumour being peddled around.’’ He noted that peace was gradually returning to the town as more policemen had been deployed to beef up security in the town. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   