Friday Olokor, Abuja The Independent National Electoral Commission has said the creation of more federal constituencies before the 2023 general elections is not its unilateral responsibility. Saturday PUNCH reports that the House of Representatives, on Wednesday, called on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to order INEC to create more constituencies before the 2023 general elections. The Lower House also lashed out at the commission for allegedly violating the 1999 constitution. But INEC National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, in a statement on Friday, insisted that the commission did not have the power to revise or alter the boundaries of constituencies every 10 years as has been speculated in some sections of the media. Okoye explained that, while the division of the country into electoral constituencies was the responsibility of INEC, the subsequent revision of the constituencies and adjustment of their boundaries were the joint duties of the commission and the National Assembly once established. He said any such revision or adjustment must be passed by a resolution of the Senate and the House of Representatives. According to him, although INEC was not oblivious of the importance of balanced constituency delimitation on the democratic and electoral processes, there were a lot of complicated legal, political and practical issues. Okoye added that the issue of electoral constituencies is separate and distinct from the ongoing consultation on voter access to polling units in Nigeria. He said the commission had been in discussion with the National Assembly to address some of the difficult issues in the division, revision and alteration of electoral constituency boundaries in Nigeria. The INEC commissioner said, “For the avoidance of doubt, Section 73 (1) of the constitution provides for that to happen at intervals of ‘not less than 10 years.’ This implies that it can only happen from 10 years and above! Therefore, the commission is not in breach of the constitution, since the revision could happen in 10 years or more. “The constitution also provides that the commission may embark on revision and adjustment after a national census, creation of states or by an act of the National Assembly [Section 73 (2)]. None of these conditions actually exists at the moment. The last population census was conducted in 2006, about 15 years ago. “The commission feels that revising and/or altering constituencies based on 15-year-old population data is inappropriate because the well-known rapidity of population changes in Nigeria would make nonsense of any outcome.” “In any case, the National Population Commission is working on conducting another census and it seems reasonable to await its outcome.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   