Segun Adewole The Nigerian Army has described as false a report (Not by The PUNCH) that over 100 troops absconded after Boko Haram attacked Marte and Dikwa in Borno State. The military advised the public to disregard the report, saying it is targeted at dampening the morale and fighting efficiency of the troops. This is contained in a statement issued by the Director, Army Public Relations, Brigadier General Mohammed Yerima, on Thursday. READ ALSO: States yet to meet conditions won’t get COVID-19 vaccines –FG The statement read, “The attention of the Nigerian Army has been drawn to a publication in a section of the media alleging that over 100 Nigerian troops were reported to have absconded after Boko Haram attacks on Marte and Dikwa. This publication is false, unfounded and an attempt to malign the image and character of the Nigerian Army. “For the records, in the fog of war, it is a routine that headcount is conducted to determine the number of men and equipment holding aftermath of military offensive. Unfortunately, an internal correspondence that was originated by the formation was not properly done. It was later discovered that a good number of those affected rejoined their respective units and are currently part of the ongoing clearance operations. READ ALSO: Buhari orders security beef up around borders “Members of the general public are please advised to disregard the story as the subversive intent of the promoters are targeted at dampening the morale and fighting efficiency of our troops. We continually solicit especially the much needed public support in the fight against Boko Haram. “The Nigerian Army wishes to reassure the general public that troops are in high spirit and currently clearing areas infiltrated by Boko Haram terrorists/ISWAP. It is on record that the troops fought to defend the Internally Displaced Persons Camp and United Nations Humanitarian Hub in Dikwa. It is pertinent to also note that normalcy has returned to Dikwa and its environs.” READ ALSO: Money laundering: Go after Yahaya Bello now, PDP tells EFCC 