Friday Olokor, Abuja A 36-year-old suspected trans-border drug trafficker, Nkem Timothy, alias Auwalu Audu, has been arrested in Sokoto by operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency. He was apprehended while trying to cross to Algeria through Niger Republic with 62 wraps of substance suspected to be cocaine weighing 1.550kg and with an estimated street value of about N1bn. The Sokoto State acting Commander of the NDLEA, Bamidele Segun, according to a statement by the agency’s Director of Media and Advocacy, Femi Babafemi, on Sunday, stated that the suspect was intercepted on a motorcycle around the Baggage area of the Illela border while trying to cross to Niger Republic, en route Algeria, where he resides. READ ALSO: Mother of six appeals eviction from matrimonial home The NDLEA said the illicit drug was neatly concealed inside bottles of yoghurt. “He was found with an ECOWAS passport with different names written as Auwalu Audu, but he gave his real name as Nkem Timothy,” the commander stated. He said his men had commenced investigation to unravel Timothy’s sponsor(s) and other members of the trans-border drug cartel. “This is a groundbreaking feat for us in the command as a seizure of this magnitude of type ‘A’ drug has never been made in Sokoto Command before,” Segun added. Meanwhile, the Adamawa State Command of the NDLEA has also arrested one Umar Mohammed with 82 blocks of compressed cannabis sativa weighing 70kg at the Lafiya Lamurde area of the state. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Gunmen seize bus, kidnap passengers in Delta, police announce manhunt The Chairman/Chief Executive of the NDLEA, Brig. General Buba Marwa (retd), commended the two commands and charged them to remain vigilant and ensure that no illicit drug passed through their areas of responsibility. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 