Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna Some bandits were said to have invaded the staff quarters of the Federal Airport Authority of Nigeria in Kaduna, abducting six members of a family, a housewife and two children The FAAN quarters is located just before the Kaduna International Airport in the Igabi Local Government Area of the state being ravaged by bandits. READ ALSO: Buhari, Osinbajo receive COVID-19 vaccines in Aso Villa The attack happened at about 1.00am in the early hours of Saturday. It was gathered that the gunmen in large numbers and on motorcycles gained access to the quarters through the airport runway. A source who craved anonymity, however, said but for the intervention of the military, the entire occupants of the quarters would have been abducted. The bandits invaded the quarters with sophisticated weapons but they were only able to gain access into two houses. According to the source, the military engaged the bandits in a gun battle, leaving behind shells of bullets.  READ ALSO: How I defeated UK, US, Chinese pupils, others at global maths competition –15-year-old Nigerian He said, “The gunmen came in and forcefully broke into one of the houses in the quarters. But the soldiers came in and engaged the bandits in a serious gun battle. The soldiers could only prevent them from picking more people because the bandits came with two RPG alongside many AK-47 rifles. “The incident lasted for hours as the military personnel tried fiercely to resists the attack but the bandits had their way. They went away with nine people, including six people from a single-family. READ ALSO: I dropped out of medical school at 500L, ended up as cart pusher –Benue man “The bandits escaped with all the nine victims by putting them on their motorcycles. We are now left with tension and fear. The whole place is litter with bullets shells and holes on the wall.” As of the time of filing this report, the state Command of the Nigeria Police Force had yet to confirm the incident. The Command’s Public Relations Officer, ASP Mohammed Jalige neither pick our correspondent’s telephone call nor respond to the message. 