THE President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, has advised the Igbo in the South-East to seize the opportunity provided by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) regime to gravitate to the centre of the Nigerian politics. Lawan gave this advice in a statement by his Media Office on Sunday during the thanksgiving/interdenominational service held in Owerri, Imo State, to commemorate the one year in office of Governor Hope Uzodimma. The Senate President said Uzodimma had achieved so much in one year because he had taken politics beyond the South-East to the centre. He said, “Today, we are celebrating one year of his governorship in Imo State. The National Assembly is here. Let me say the presence of the Vice-President, representing the President, and all the governors here is a very clear testimony of his (Uzodimma) relationship with the centre of Nigeria. “He (Uzodimma) doesn’t waste time in looking for opportunity like this and the result is what you see. You have so much intervention. He has achieved so much in one year because he does not play his politics only in the South-East. “He has taken his politics to the centre as well, and therefore, I will take this opportunity to appeal to our people in the South-East; grab the opportunity to be at the centre of Nigerian politics. “APC administration of President Muhammadu Buhari is so willing, so liberal and forthcoming to support every part of Nigeria to make sure that Nigeria is evenly developed. “What we are witnessing here in Imo will be replicated in Ebonyi. We hope by the Grace of God, Anambra is coming on board. We are expecting Abia to be on board. And of course, we are hoping to bring Enugu on board.” Nigeria’s problems, stepping stones to a great future – Osinbajo At the occasion, the Vice-President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo (SAN), said the challenges Nigeria currently faces as a nation are not insurmountable but are stepping stones to a great future. The Vice-President, who delivered the felicitations of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to Uzodinma and the people of the state, also noted that faithful service to the people in public office remained a way of honouring God who gave the opportunity in the first place to leaders. This is according to a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Laolu Akande, titled ‘Nigeria’s challenges are stepping stones to a great future.’ Osinbajo was quoted as saying, “Let me say that despite the challenges our nation faces, by the grace of God, we, the Nigerian people, are more than able to surmount them. So, I say to you, people of Imo and the great people of Nigeria; yes, we have work to do; yes, we have much to repair, but we are undaunted. “The problems we see today are the stepping stones to our great future. We are, by the grace of God, mightier than our challenges.” Osinbajo said the Federal Government had improved the country’s healthcare sector, adding that the apex government had also provided huge funds for road rehabilitation, market development and other developmental programmes. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 