THE Action Alliance has vowed to wrestle political power from the ruling All Progressives Congress in the 2023 general elections. National Chairman of the party, Chief Kenneth Udeze, said this after his re-election for a second term in Abuja, on Sunday. Udeze, at a well-attended national convention of the party, polled a total of 160 votes to defeat his closest rival, Mrs. Uzenuru Nwachukwu, who scored five votes. The party on the occasion also approved the expulsion of state executives from Osun and Oyo states for anti-party activities. The convention was in pursuant to Article 13, and 35 of AA constitution 2005, as amended. Also elected are: Alhaji Ibrahim Umar, Deputy National Chairman, Alhaji Abdulaziz Adamu, Vice Chairman North west, Alhaji Ali Abacha, North East, Dr. Manga Asha, North Central, Akijan Michael, South West, Obinna Nwofoke, South East, Gabriel Baju, South South. Speaking after his election, Udeze said, “In the last general election, through my political savviness, we were able to win a lot of seats in the states and National Assembly. “The peace that the party has enjoyed so far is because I am a team player, and I run a rancour- free administration where everyone’s opinion counts. “It may surprise you to note that most of the challenges we have ever had were from the outside; those whose intent and purpose is to distract us but I thank God for faithful party members, who had always stood by me. “So, the most crucial and important reason for the call to serve the second time is to save the soul of the party from political terrorists and hijackers. “Continuity in politics is a very important political component. I know where we are coming from, I know where we are at the moment, and I know where we are going to. To all intents and purposes, it is the most ideal thing to do as we are in a better place now than we were in the past. “I want to set a campaign template upon which the party can look on, towards taking over the government at the centre by collective collaboration and efforts of serious-minded political allies.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 