Kayode Oyero A former Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Chief Bode George, says the ship of Lagos has been going in the wrong direction since All Progressives Congress chieftain, Bola Tinubu, took over control of the state. George spoke in an exclusive interview with The PUNCH on Saturday in reaction to comments by Tinubu that the ship of Lagos was heading in a wrong direction within 2017-2018 before incumbent Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. Tinubu had made the comments on Friday during the inauguration of the 1.4 kilometre-long Agege-Pen Cinema Bridge. READ ALSO: How I defeated UK, US, Chinese pupils, others at global maths competition –15-year-old Nigerian The former Lagos governor between 1999 and 2007 had said, “Sometime in 2017-2018, the ship of this state seemed to have headed in a very wrong direction. History had it that we came together, an election came and we chose a democratically-elected government of the people, our people, and for the people. They say ‘who is Babajide Sanwo-Olu’? We said, ‘you will find out’. “Ever since Babajide became the captain of the ship of our state, he has turned it round to the right direction of progress, development, and good leadership quality.” However, speaking on Saturday, George said, “The ship of Lagos has been going in the wrong direction since he (Tinubu) ascended the throne of Lagos. READ ALSO: I was overwhelmed by job emails from US, UK after I carried placard –Job-seeking Delta graduate “Right from the days of Brigadier Johnson, Baba Jakande, Marwa, and all those who have ruled Lagos, people still talk of their legacies. But the ship of Lagos started going in the wrong direction when he (Tinubu) ascended the throne. “I stand by all that I have said about him. I don’t have anything personal against him but against his policies. His daughter is the Iyaloja of Lagos, his son is the only one that has advert all over the city and his wife is the one representing Lagos Central in the Senate. O to ge (Enough is enough)!” READ ALSO: I dropped out of medical school at 500L, ended up as cart pusher –Benue man “We met very encouraging things when we were growing up but today where are they? No scholarship for students, no help for the masses. I don’t have anything against Tinubu but his policies. If he were in Osun State, I wouldn’t have been concerned but as a Lagosian, Tinubu is too important to be left alone and that is why I will continue speaking against his policies,” the PDP chieftain added.