Marriage is about the most important ceremony celebrated in the world over. The reason most people adduce is simply that no one is aware of one’s birth date and the day one would die, hence the justification for the amount of resources and attention devoted to this ceremony. Marriage is important for the establishment of the family which is the most basic unit of society. It is a relationship that guarantees the continuity of the Homosapien species. Beyond companionship, marriage also offers a socialisation template for the offsprings. Marriage provides an avenue for couples to define their lives independent of their progenitors as a demonstration of maturity and self-actualisation. Marriage is the template for healthy self-assertiveness where couples invest all of their resources to build their unique family.  In our modern society, it has become an empirical measure of a man’s leadership competence and maturity. The idea of marriage for most people may have started from childhood through the family the novels, films, religion, culture which get modified over the years through experiences. Different societies have different prescriptions with Culture and religion playing very crucial roles in how the relationship can be contracted and how the marriage would be managed and in what context. As a consequence of globalisation of values; modern marriages are essentially more challenged than those of the older generation. Hence, the increased rates of divorce or for some civility and religiosity, separation.  Polygamy which is essentially African and practiced by some religions is gradually disappearing as monogamous marriages take the center stage.   This form of marriage definitely comes with certain challenges for commitment, accountability and cooperation which could be threatened by many factors such as compatibility, temperamental differences, ideological differences, social class differences, religious or value differences and at times undue interference by the parents. This may invariably lead to perennial conflicts heading up in separation or outright divorce. A legal separation is a   process by which a married couple may formalize a de facto separation while remaining legally married in the form of a court order but most times in our environment it is usually informal. In cases where children are involved, a court order of legal separation often makes temporary arrangement for the care, custody and financial support for the children. Separation does not automatically lead to a divorce as couples may reconcile.  This arrangement is common whether legal or informal as an alternative to divorce due to moral or religious objections to divorce. Divorce on the other hand is the termination of a marital union, the cancelling of the legal duties and responsibilities of marriage, thus dissolving the bonds of matrimony between married couples under the rule of law of the particular country. Divorce or separation can be a stressful experience affecting finances, living arrangements, household jobs, schedules, parenting and the outcomes of the children as they face each stage of development from childhood to adulthood without a cohesive template from their parents. This may lay the foundation for increased vulnerability for developing mental illness in the future. While so much attention is devoted to the financial, cultural and religious implications of a divorce, very little consideration is given to the mental health consequences on the couples. Divorce or separation is a profound form of psychological loss that fundamentally challenges sense of identity. No one walks away from a marriage, whole, since is a part of the individual may be irretrievably lost to that relationship which explains its negative impact on lifestyle habits and behavior which may adversely affect mental and physical health. Divorced men are less likely to exercise, more likely to smoke, drink excessively and engage in other risky behaviors. Divorce causes chronic stress because it is usually an ongoing event that takes a toll on nearly every system in the body especially the heart. Sleep can also be affected as a consequence of the stress which may invariably weaken the immune system. A good number may come down with anxiety disorders, depressive illness and substance abuse disorders especially alcoholism. While a healthy marriage has been shown to provide protective health benefits, studies also have shown that people in highly stressful marriages who often face anger, hostility and stress and are more likely to have depression, abnormal obesity, and elevated blood sugar which may lead to heart attacks and divorce may be beneficial to their health. To reduce divorce and its negative impacts, premarital counseling should be rigorous and empirical beyond the religious and our cultural myths. When life is at stake, divorce must be intelligently considered taking cognizance of the children, finances, identity reconstruction and life after divorce. Our modern marriages need mentorship from older and successful couples who can offer time-tested principles objectively and compassionately. The value of mental health consultation can be very valuable. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  