Ted Odogwu  and Leke Baiyewu Salihu Yakasai, the son of an elder statesman, Alhaji Tanko Yakasai, is still in the custody of the Department of State Services. Salihu was arrested by the DSS on Friday after he posted on social media that the All Progressives Government had fail Nigerians. He was transferred to Abuja. He was also sacked by Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State as his Special Adviser on Media. The elder statesman, Tanko Yakasai, said on Sunday that a lawyer and Salihu’s brother visited Abuja on Saturday and applied for permission at the DSS office to talk him, adding that they were not successful. He said, “They were advised to call today (Sunday); we are still waiting for an update from the security operatives, who have yet to contact us. “I appeal to the authorities to grant him (Salihu) access to his lawyer; he is protected by the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in freedom of expression.” Meanwhile, the Peoples Democratic Party caucus in the House of Representatives on Sunday, expressed concern over Salisu’s arrest. Leader of the caucus, Kingsley Chinda, in a statement, said it concern over the continuous breach and denigration of democratic ethos and the constitution the country. Chinda said the PDP caucus “is proud of and salutes the stance,  uncommon boldness, courage and statesmanship shown by Mr Yakassai and a few other Nigerians for standing firm to say the truth.” He said,  “We, hereby, call on President Muhammadu Buhari and the Federal Government to pay particular attention to the message delivered by Mr Yakassai and other well meaning Nigerians, rather than focus on the messenger. For how long will he continue to fiddle while the country burns? “Consequently, we call on the DSS and other relevant authorities for the immediate and unconditional release of Mr Yakasai.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  