An enraged housewife, Mrs Okiemute Dafe, was on Monday arrested by operatives of the Delta State Police Command for allegedly hacking her husband to death with a machete following a domestic misunderstanding. The PUNCH gathered that the woman reportedly hacked her husband, simply identified as Dafe, to death on Kulup Street, off Ekrejegbo in the Ughelli North Local Government Area of the state. Sources said trouble started when the deceased, who slept outside the matrimonial home the previous night, returned home on Monday to be confronted by his angry wife. It was gathered that the disagreement between the couple degenerated into a physical confrontation and the suspect attacked the deceased. Sources said the deceased and his wife had a heated argument and the suspect reportedly attacked him with a cutlass on the head. The woman was said to have earlier stabbed the victim before using cutlass on him. Consequently, Dafe, also known as Best Cartel, sustained severe cuts before he was rushed to the Ughelli Central Hospital by neighbours. However, he was pronounced dead by medical personnel at the Accident and Emergency Unit of the hospital. It was gathered that the woman, on seeing the gravity of her action, attempted to run away from the scene, but she was apprehended by youths and neighbours. The angry mob attempted to set Okiemute ablaze after the husband was pronounced dead. The woman was, however, rescued by policemen from the Ughelli Police Area Command. Unsatisfied, the mob followed the police team to the station and attempted breaking into the station, but they were dispersed by operatives, who resorted to firing gunshots in the air. The acting Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) for Delta State Command, DSP Bright Edafe, confirmed the incident, saying it occurred when the couple had a disagreement. The police spokesman also confirmed that Okiemute had been arrested and was currently in custody undergoing interrogation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   