Patrick Odey and Edward Nnachi Gunmen suspected to be cultists on Monday attacked and burnt a divisional police station in the Essien Udim Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State The incident occurred barely one week after some hoodlums in the same local government attacked members of the Quick Response Squad at the Ikpe Annang Junction and burnt an inspector of police inside a police van. Sources told our correspondent in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, that the hoodlums stormed the police station in the early hours of Monday and set it ablaze, as well as unserviceable vehicles and motorcycles at the station. The sources, however, said there was no loss of life. The Chairman of Essien Udim LGA, Mr Anthony Luke, condemned the attack on the station. “The council will not be intimidated in the war against criminalities in the area,” Luke said, dismissing insinuations that the attack was politically motivated. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Odiko Macdon, confirmed the arson, adding that investigation was ongoing. Meanwhile, another set of gunmen in military uniform on Monday attacked the Iboko Police Station, in the Izzi Local Government Area of Ebonyi State. The attackers were said to have set the police station ablaze using fire bombs and grenades. The Commissioner of Police in the state, Mr Aliyu Garba, confirmed the incident. He said, “Yes they attacked the station around 1am,  but there was no casualties. They threw improvised fire bombs inside the station and it ignited but it only affected a small part of the building.” The CP said the command was taking steps to protect police facilities and personnel, across the state. Recall that in January three policemen were killed in another attack at the Onueke Police. Station, in the Ezza South LGA. In February, the Police Division at Isu, in the Onicha LGA was burnt by hoodlums. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  