Dennis Naku, Port Harcourt The Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has accused the All Progressives Congress-led Federal Government of shielding the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, from prosecution over misappropriation of proceeds from the sales of some state assets. The governor said it was deceitful for the Federal Government to inaugurate narrow gauge railway from Port Harcourt to Maiduguri at a time the rest of the world was building standard gauge railway. Wike stated this during the inauguration of 6.1-kilometre Omuihuechi-Omuoko-Omokiri Link Road in the Aluu Ikwerre Local Government Area on Wednesday. Wike in a statement by his Special Assistant on Media, Kelvin Ebiri, said it was appalling that the apex administration had continued to shield Amaechi from prosecution for his inability to account for $308m from the sales of the state-owned power plant and other critical assets when he was the governor. “People gave you opportunity. You sold our properties, everything. And people are talking in this state because of the government that says they are fighting corruption and protecting people. You (Amaechi) sold our property for $308m and kept for us $208,000. “That is the kind of people parading themselves in government, for a government that says they are fighting corruption, shame,” he added. The governor urged the people of the State not to be deceived by antics of the APC on the narrow gauge rail line from Port Harcourt to Maiduguri. According to him, the project is politically motivated. “You want to finish the narrow gauge in 33 months. Will he be in power then? I am going to finish every project I have awarded, this government will finish it? The governor explained that the proposed University of Transport in Ubima, Rivers State was deceitful because the Minister of Transportation lacked the capacity to see the project through.” Wike said despite his Amaechi’s vehement opposition to his political aspiration to govern the state in 2015 and 2019, he had been elected twice as governor. He said, “But let me warn the man who thinks he has President , he has soldiers, he has police; you should have learnt your lesson by now, that when God has left you there is nothing you can do again.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   