Patrick Odey,Uyo THE Senior Special Assistant to the President on Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Ita Enang, has slammed the Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Udom Emmanuel and the three senators each from Cross River and Akwa Ibom states for not joining efforts to attract funding for the Calabar-Itu road. Enang also challenged all the 18 House of Representatives members; 10 from Akwa Ibom and eight from Cross River, to point to what they had contributed on the road. He threw the challenge on Saturday in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, while fielding questions from newsmen at the Correspondents’ Chapel’s Forum tagged ‘The Arena.’ Enang said save for the governor of Cross River State, Ben Ayade, who made some efforts, he (Enang) had borne the burden of attracting funding alone, having struggled for N6bn, N4.7bn and N3.8bn respectively. Enang said,  “I struggled from 2015; I got the first N6bn in 2015/2016 budget and when it was to be awarded, it was rehabilitation that was advertised. “To rehabilitate the road from Ikot Ekpene to Calabar; I said no. I took the budget to the Bureau of Public Procurement. It was advertised in the Federal Government’s journal that this is not what was in the budget. “By the time I was able to overcome that fight, the budget had elapsed; the year had gone and the N6bn was gone. I struggled in the following year to have N4.7bn. I split the road into two because if I had not, the amount I got in the budget would not have been able to do the initial mobilisation. “I split into two the sections that started from Odukpani T Junction to the power plant in Odukpani. Then from there to Oku-Iboku junction, and then start it up to where you have Mba Itam. “That was awarded to Julius Berger PLC. That is the amount of the money I got for that year that the budget was able to take for the mobilisation and Julius Berger was paid that money but it wasn’t enough for them to wholly mobilise; we still got some more money for them.” He continued, “I want all the Members of the House of Representatives from Akwa Ibom, 10 of them; I want all the senators from Akwa Ibom, three of them. I want all the members of the House of Representatives from Cross River State, eight of them, I want all the three senators from Cross River State; the three of them, to lift up their hands to God and say this is what I have contributed to get this road funded. “And let the Governor of Akwa Ibom State also lift up his hands and say this is what I have done. For the Governor of Cross River State Ben Ayade, I want to speak for him that he has made some efforts for that road with me, but it’s Akwa Ibom State that has not.” He reiterated his earlier position that Emmanuel ought to have ploughed back the refund of N78.9bn he got from the Federal Government on the road. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   