GOVERNMENT activities at the Abdulkareem Lafene Secretariat in Minna, the Niger state capital, were on Thursday grounded as former local government councillors protested the non-payment of their N1.27bn severance package. The ex-councillors from the 274 wards of the state besieged the secretariat, locked the main gate and disallowed workers from gaining entry. The councillors, who served between 2016 and 2019, in a 10-points demand contained in their placards, which were pasted at the entrance of the secretariat gate, sought the payment of their furniture and severance allowances. According to them, due to the inability of the government to pay them the allowances, most of them are in prison as a result of debts, while others claimed that they have been thrown out of their houses due to their inability to pay house rents. The councillors, in their placards, therefore, threatened not to open the gate until Governor Abubakar Sani Bello came to address them because “we fought for the success of his second term in office.” The leader of the protesters, Mallam Garba Umar, said the former councillors were being owed over N4.6m each since 2019 but the government had refused to pay them. He said, “We tried all efforts to ensure that our entitlements are paid but to no avail. We equally met the Commissioner of Ministry of Local Government, Community Development and Chieftaincy Affairs, Mallam Abdulmalik Daji, on several occasions, but all ended up with promises.” Reacting to this development, the commissioner admitted that the former were being owed some allowances and added that the inability of the government to pay the allowances was not deliberate. He attributed the delay in the payment of these allowances to the shortfall from the Federation Account Allocation occasioned by the global COVID-19 pandemic which had made it impossible for the government at all levels to meet its financial obligations. “They need to be patient and show some understanding with the government, and as soon as things improve, and we can pay salaries comfortably, nothing will stop us from the payment of their outstanding allowances. We will surely look into their demands,” Daji stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  