Calling attention to the things we do to harm Nigeria is something some readers do not like. Yet, those of us who perpetrate the harm are the quickest to point accusing fingers at others for whatever goes wrong. Such a disposition shows either deliberate hypocrisy or our lack of attention to what we do as individuals which greatly harms our nation. The trend on the part of many to harm our nation without blinking is getting worse by the day. We get the latest inkling of this when the Joint Admissions and Matriculations Board said some Nigerians robbed it of an estimated N10m. Under its current leadership, JAMB isn’t new to coming out to tell all what shenanigans some Nigerians are engaged in, and this is something I find fascinating about this Board. This has been the case ever since its Registrar, Ishaq Oloyede, came on board. The regular reader knows it’s my mindset, applauding any Nigerian, irrespective or tribe or religion, who works hard to clean the rot in their little corner, people who put the interest of our nation first. JAMB has of recent been doing its best to clean the rot, a very vital one considering how malpractices have practically brought the nation’s education to its knees. The latest rot is seen in how the Board lost money to fraudsters in 2020. According to JAMB, the funds, which were meant to pay JAMB ad hoc staff from the 2020 Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination, were hijacked by the fraudsters.  The board investigated the illegality, tracked, and finally apprehended 10 of the suspects. Now, it should alarm us all that in this country that we find a way to compromise every good initiative. Come up with an initiative to curb corruption or diversion of public resources, the next moment we’ve found a way around it.  I’ve followed JAMB’s activities closely from the first day I heard its current boss talking about the many corrupt practices going on around its operations and how he wanted to fix them. That’s a Nigerian worth listening to, worth applauding. For it’s when I support such persons that even my own objective of being on this page, for calling out the ills in our nation would be achieved. And there are many ills, perpetrated by us wherever we find ourselves such that, these days,  it’s so difficult to find people with whom I can discuss the word “honesty” or “integrity.” I’ve noticed that the person I express my concerns to, and who I assume shares my view is neck deep in one dishonest practice or the other. Sometimes, when I hear what people confidentially tell me about the strange things they do, I feel grateful that I had yet to start talking to them about the need for us to promote honesty in  our nation. Such characters are all over the place. It’s when they open their mouths to you, or they are arrested as JAMB has arrested the suspected fraudsters that one would realise the kind of fix this nation is in. Did anyone follow government’s effort to decongest the harbours as well as free up the Apapa-Oshodi Expressway that’s perennially blocked by trucks that want to load? Even when an e-call list for trucks is adopted to remove corruption, some officials still found a way around it.  In the end, a mess was made of a good initiative. When a state governor closed its state’s boundaries so that it could curb the spread of covid-19 the other time, he discovered that the security personnel put up a front when he was present. Once he was gone, they collected bribe from motorists and allowed them to come into the state, thus making a mess of a good intention. The governor was forced to re-open boundaries. The Federal Government closed the international borders the other time for several reasons. One was to curb illegal importation of items it wanted local industries to produce. We know that security personnel turned the situation into a money-making venture. One security official spoke to me on how his unit constituted themselves into the arrester, the judge of those caught smuggling items, as well as sellers of the same items that they seized. In fact, his Unit’s boss was even cheating his subordinates with regard to the money they made from the sales of items they supposedly confiscated. The other day, the Nigerian Extractive Industry Transparency International alleged that our nation didn’t know the exact amount of crude oil exploited and exported from deep shore oil platforms. Over the years, I know NEITI doesn’t say what it doesn’t know. But a government agency has come out with a press release, as usual, treating a serious issue as though the allegation is one that anyone could just sit under air-conditioners in a posh office in Abuja to routinely dismiss. Of course, we know NEITI is saying what would be strange if it’s not happening in Nigeria,  going by what we know of ourselves. The Governor of Zamfara State, Bello Matawalle, stated recently that a Nigerian soldier was caught supplying ammunition and military uniforms to bandits in the state. Matawalle said unless the fight against banditry was cleansed of bad eggs and saboteurs, we wouldn’t record the desired success in the fight. We know this already, a reason some of us call attention to ourselves and the things we do to sabotage our nation for personal gains. For we sabotage, yet we’re quick  to point to any government formed by a political party we don’t like, blaming it for every ailment the nation suffers from. We even point to people of tribes other than ours as the cause of all the nation’s problems when we too do no small damage wherever we are to our nation. Governments aren’t always right, but our own culpability is a reason I take some criticisms of any government with cynicism. For every initiative properly arranged by government for the good of all is messed up by those who manage the processes. That’s us. Several years ago, I was following the processes for my admission into an academic programme in one of our universities. One requirement was that we should run some tests at the university clinic. Instead of running the test, officials at the clinic were collecting money and they wrote results for tests that they didn’t run. Were you to insist you wanted the test run, they dump your paper somewhere, and no results would be released. Yet, these same people would sit behind their desks all day accusing some government somewhere of destroying the nation. As already noted, it wasn’t the first time JAMB’s Oloyede would boldly come out to state that he wouldn’t  permit corrupt practices as far as the operations of the Board was concerned. His efforts led to how the latest set of fraudsters were found and arrested. Thereafter, with evidence that were incontrovertible gathered to show their involvement in the fraudulent practice, the culprits were shown kneeling down to plead with Oloyede that they should be forgiven. But this matter isn’t in Oloyede’s hands. This is an offence against Nigeria. Should the Board had these fraudsters released on any grounds without taking them through the judicial process, I would engage in a one-man protest movement, engage in a hunger strike,  sitting in front of the office of JAMB in Abuja every day until such a decision is rescinded.  That’s a measure of how I strongly I feel about individuals who harm our nation only to insult others – tribe, religion, government.  These fellows  must be made to face the wrath of the law. They are people who would fraudulently gather wealth and flaunt it in the face of the rest of us, making so many Nigerians feel that they ‘no sabi do’. There are many of such fraudsters in our society who raise their shoulders, making honest Nigerians feel something is wrong with them for being honest. Thieves and looters see themselves as people who are smart. These fraudsters  who are smart enough to succeed in defrauding JAMB should be made to face the consequences of their ‘smartness’ in prison. It’s the only way JAMB’s efforts targeted at restoring sanity in that segment of our nation’s education system can have any meaning. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com