Rite Foods Limited, makers of Bigi soft drinks, is one company that is serious about the discovery of talent and promotion of entertainment in the country. This was further demonstrated with its sponsorship of the Nigerian Idol and the maiden edition of the Bigi Media Idol. The brand recently organised the inaugural edition of Bigi Media Idol for content drivers in the lifestyle and entertainment, arts and society section of the media. Speaking at the event, the Managing Director of Rite Foods Limited, Seleem Adegunwa, noted that the company would earnestly promote talent discovery in music through the Nigerian Idol while also espousing his company’s interest in creative arts. He said, “With the Burna Boy inspiration, many more Grammies will begin to roll in the years to come. But for the best to be discovered, groomed and given the necessary push, there must be a propelling platform, which we believe Nigerian Idol provides. “We are committed to the ‘Nigerianess’ of positive energy, talents in music, creative art and ‘ideapreneurship’ that will earn for Nigeria, international respect and accolades.” Adegunwa also stated that the brand’s commitment to the growth of talents in music spurred the inaugural edition of the show, which was won by the Entertainment Editor of Nigerian Tribune Newspapers, Rotimi Ige. The entertainment journalist had thrilled the audience with melodious songs and he went home with a cash prize of N250,000 and 10 packs of Bigi products. The first runner-up, Osigbe Blessing, of High Society Magazine, got a cash prize of N150,000, while the second runner-up, Funsho Arogundade, who is the publisher of PM Express, received N100,000. Seven other participants also went home with the sum of N50,000 as consolation prizes. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com