The Lions Clubs International District 404B1 has solicited support for people living with cancer. The Director-General of the club, Mrs Lynda Odunmbaku, made the appeal during the ground-breaking of the Lions Dialysis Center situated at the General Hospital, Ota, Ogun State. She said, “This Dialysis Centre will cater for over 10 million people living kidney disease in Ogun State and parts of Lagos State when it becomes operational. This project, which foundation we are laying today will grant access to renal care for the majority of people suffering from the affliction, enabling the less privileged to have access to affordable health care. “We all know that due to the nature and length of treatment, dialysis can be expensive. With this project, the cost of dialysis for patients will be highly subsidised in this center. This is because the Lions Dialysis Center will be run under a public-private partnership. Our partners are ready with a sufficient number of dialysis machines once we finish the building. “By the grace of God, this building will be completed in seven weeks, commissioned and handed over to the Ogun State Government and our partner.” The Special Adviser to the Ogun State Governor on Health, Dr. Tayo Lawal, said there was the need for the public and private sector to partner with the government in caring for people living with kidney disease. “Renal disease is becoming a scourge in our community. About 200 to 300 per million people suffer from the disease and in general hospitals, about 10 per cent of people receiving treatment there suffer end-stage renal disease. “I once served as the Medical Director of General hospital, Gbagada, Lagos and we have a dialysis centre there. I know that it cost nothing less than N75,000 per week to see any patients coming for dialysis; we know that a lot of people cannot afford this. The disease is still on the rise because of so many things people drink all in the name of herbs and concoctions. This is becoming a real challenge and we know that the government cannot do it alone,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com