The Ebonyi State Government has accused the Peoples Democratic Party of allegedly sponsoring what it described as fake reports against the state. It said the PDP was hell-bent on misleading members of the public and urged the citizens not to take such fake news seriously. The Commissioner for Information and State Orientation, Mr Uchenna Orji, in a statement, said, “The attention of Ebonyi State  Ministry of Information and State Orientation has been drawn to a vicious, mendacious and faceless post captioned, ‘I will not vote my husband in APC,’ and falsely  credited to Her Excellency, wife of the Governor of Ebonyi State and  made to trend in social media by  political jobbers deployed by the remnants of the drowned People’s Democratic Party, in the state and who have also resorted to  writing helplessly and derogatorily about Mrs Rachel Umahi (Ogoo Nwanyi). “While we take exception to this cheap and disrespectful blackmail, we make bold to state that the wife of our dear governor is a proud card-carrying member of the All Progressives Congress, with registration number, EB/BZR/11/04202. “We therefore  want to use this medium to admonish the remnants of PDP in the state that no amount of lies and fake news shall mitigate the tsunami that has brazenly  befallen them since the glorious defection of the government and people of Ebonyi State to APC. We also invite the members of the public to discountenance all the social media posts against the first family of Ebonyi State as  a worthless political strategy of PDP to misinform the gullible and elicit public sympathy to their unpleasant  political fate.” But reacting, the PDP queried whether such alleged fake news emanated from its stable. The Publicity Secretary of the PDP in the state, Mr Silas Onu, urged the state government to go and put its house in order. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com