IT is disconcerting that water supply continues to be a huge challenge for Nigerians, even with the enormous resources deployed by the government over the years, as well as the country being blessed with significant water resources. A basic need for humans and animals, its importance cannot be overemphasised. Government at all levels should intensify efforts to ensure its availability and affordability to the citizens. The country’s natural endowment in water sources is reflected in the fact that several of the 36 states are named after rivers. Notwithstanding, only about 19 per cent of the country’s 208 million population has access to safe drinking water. With an estimated 214 billion cubic kilometres a year of available surface water, which is far higher than in many African countries, particularly those in the southern and northern regions of the continent (according to The Conversation.com), Nigeria has plenty of water, which can and should be harnessed for the people’s use. There is no reason Nigerians should suffer from water shortages if the country’s governance is geared towards the welfare of the people and committed to the provision of their basic needs. Globally, experts estimate that more than one in three people lack access to drinking water, while more than four billion people, out of the Earth’s 7.8 billion, do not have adequate sanitation. Ironically, water covers 70 per cent of our planet, However, World Wildlife says freshwater —the stuff we drink, bathe in, irrigate our farm fields with— is incredibly rare. Only 3.0 per cent of the world’s water is fresh water, and two-thirds of that is tucked away in frozen glaciers or otherwise unavailable for our use. This requires strategic and collaborative action through a multi-stakeholder engagement. Strikingly, a 2018 report by WaterAid Australia said that “almost every country struggling to provide its people with clean water also has a huge gap in access between the richest and poorest. For instance, in Niger Republic, only 41 per cent of the poorest people have access to water, while 72 per cent of the wealthiest do.” The gap widens in neighbouring Mali to 45 per cent and 93 per cent, respectively. In the case of Nigeria, The Conversation.com estimates that 80 per cent of wealthy Nigerians have access to at least basic water supply, in comparison to only 48 per cent of poor Nigerians. This should challenge government at all levels to make water available for Nigerians, more so given the nexus between water supply and good health, sanitation and hygiene. To bridge the supply gap, Nigerians have had to depend on unhygienic water sources like boreholes, water tankers, sachet water, streams and ponds to meet their water needs. But a nutritionist and member of the Nutrition Society of Nigeria, Josephine Chukwunweike, warns, “The danger in indiscriminate sinking of boreholes is that it could affect the earth and cause cracks and destroy buildings gradually. Also, it could lead to the supply of contaminated water as some of these boreholes are done close to refuse/sewage disposal areas and this of course is injurious to health.” It is disheartening that the current crop of leaders has not given priority to water supply to the citizens. In almost all the state capitals across the country and the Federal Capital Territory, water is an existential challenge. There have been reports of water scarcity in major towns and cities with huge implications for the people. It is claimed that the lack of accessible, reliable and safe drinking water, together with poor sanitation and hygiene, is estimated to cost Nigeria about $1.3 billion in access time, loss due to premature death, productive time lost and health costs. Like many states across the country, residents of Enugu, especially in highbrow places like Independence Layout, Community Layout in Trans Ekulu, Achara Layout and Emene, have over the months lamented water scarcity in the state capital. A resident recently told the News Agency of Nigeria, following days of street protests and demonstrations to draw the attention of the state government to their ordeal: “Ever since I moved into this area, we only had tap water twice in 2014; but from then till now, I buy water from vendors at a very costly amount, between N18,000 and N20,000. Again, we cannot sink a borehole due to the topography of Enugu which is covered by coal.” In Lagos, residents of the city have a familiar tale as the public water system is inefficient even in the highbrow areas like Lekki, Victoria Island and Ikoyi. Undeniably, the water crisis is the cause of increase in communicable diseases in the country like cholera, a major harbinger of death in most Northern Nigeria states. Since the first appearance of the epidemic in 1972, cholera has caused 782 deaths in approximately 3,000 cases in the country, a report said. The United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention says people can get sick from the acute diarrheal illness “when they swallow food or water contaminated with bacteria.” Among others, the growing population of the country is one of the causes of water scarcity. It is evident that the subsisting water infrastructure in the country can no longer meet the growing demand of an increasing population of 208 million people for water. Nigeria requires its leaders to take more than a passing interest in the provision of water for the people through increased investment in water resources and management. This is where the government should interface with the private sector and international aid agencies to address the challenge. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com