The apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, on Saturday, condemned attack by gunmen on the country home of Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodinma. Ohanaeze President General, George Obiozor, in a statement through the group’s National Publicity Secretary, Alex Ogbonnia, warned youths in the South-East against being used by outsiders and detractors to destabilise the region. The PUNCH had earlier reported that at least three security operatives were killed when gunmen attacked Uzodinma’s country home in the Oru East Local Government Area of the state. Part of the building and cars in the compound were also torched by the assailants. Reacting in a statement titled, ‘Ohanaeze Condemns The Attack On Governor Uzodinma Residence’, the apex Igbo group “considered the attack as a sacrilege against everything moral and ethical in the character of Ndigbo”. The statement further read, “This is not acceptable and must be condemned by Ndigbo, anywhere, everywhere. We must as Igbos, no matter the cause, not attack our sanctuaries. This is an abomination and a new development that is totally out of character of the Igbo. “The President General therefore warns the Igbo youths not to be used or make themselves available to be used by those elements within and outside Igbo land that want to turn the South East of Nigeria into a theatre of crises, conflicts and violence. “We must as Ndigbo be careful with what confronts us in the form of challenges against the prospects and possibilities of achieving our objective of a president of Nigeria from the South East of Nigeria by our detractors and competitors. “The present attempt to turn the South East, the most peaceful zone in Nigeria in recent years, into a crises and violent region, definitely has ulterior motives which must be thoroughly investigated. And so also, the idea of targeting the leaders of the zone is equally a serious issue that must be considered by the leaders of the zone and the federal government. “The Ohanaeze Ndigbo expresses sadness over the unfortunate incident at Omuma and grateful to God that His Excellency, Governor Hope Uzodinma and members of his immediate family were not hurt.”