The glitz and gleam of the much-touted China Pakistan Economic Corridor is wearing off faster than before, going by eyewitness accounts of Pakistani writers. In one such latest account, published in The Friday Times early this month, the writer, who travelled 2000 kilometres across Balochistan recently to assess the impact of CPEC projects, found severe power and water crises bedevil the region as never before. Local communities like fishermen and craftsmen have lost their livelihood to the reckless concretisation of the province in the name of development. Writing in The Friday Times (April 9, 2021), Adnan Amir said when he entered Gwadar, reputed as the Next Dubai by the leaders of China and Pakistan, he found the “scenario very underwhelming in the context of the hype created by successive governments.” He said except for the Marine Drive on the West Bay, “there is nothing spectacular about the infrastructure of the port town.” He found that the electricity supply crisis was a serious issue along with water scarcity. Erratic power supply has seriously affected farming and industrial sectors in the province. Without adequate power, people living along the route were finding life difficult with decreasing opportunities and increasing crime rate. Power shortage has severely affected school and college students who are forced to depend on oil lamps or candles to complete their studies. With frequent power cuts, small scale and medium scale industries are increasingly curtailing  their operations, leading to losses in terms of output, livelihood and employment. People along the route have other fears to deal with. The most frightening is the problem of water. For long, water has been a major issue in the area, especially in urban areas like Gwadar. The crisis has become severe after the CPEC project began some five years back. This year, a major water crisis awaits the residents unless there is heavy rainfall to fill the dams supplying water to Gwadar. This, the writer said, “highlights the failure of the provincial government in resolving the water problem of Gwadar five years after the inception of CPEC.” In fact, there was severe water shortage in most places along the route. Without adequate water supply, farming and livestock have been hit hard with farming communities losing any hope of earning a decent livelihood any time soon. In fact, young members of the community are migrating to cities to work as labourers and other low paid works. Drinking water supply in many areas along the route has drastically come down since the project began. The CPEC has left the local communities floundering all along the route in other ways. Besides the farmers, fishing communities are now finding themselves on the edge of penury with resources depleting fast due to large scale concretisation of waterways and islands that once were fertile sources of marine life. Amir found that “there is no fish in the sea near the coast of Kund Malir, which has devastated the lives of people relying on fishing. As a result, signs of poverty are quite visible in this entire region.” These accounts are supported by other statements which tell the real story of Balochistan which the Imran Khan government is trying too hard to conceal. In February this year, Balochistan minister for Social Welfare and Special Education, Asad Baloch, lamented that CPEC was of no benefit to the people of his province. Last year, Senator Sherry Rehaman, Convener of the Special Committee on the project of China Pakistan Economic Corridor, made it known that there was no progress in the CPEC projects. Addressing the committee, she said, the “Federal government is misrepresenting the facts on projects on Balochistan, including the SEZs, as well as the power project for Gwadar which has been caught in NEPRA tariff forest since 2017”. The Imran Khan government might be spreading a “rosy” picture of the CPEC but for the people of Balochistan, on the ground, it is nothing but fake news. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com