The Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, on Thursday launched a five-year food security road map to enhance food sufficiency in the state. Sanwo-Olu disclosed that the adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on food security in the state necessitated immediate action towards ensuring food security. The governor, who noted that the state relied on massive food importation and mutual collaboration on production with other states, said Lagos could no longer rely exclusively on production alliances, adding that it was time for the state to unlock its agricultural potential. According to Sanwo-Olu, the roadmap will “set players in the agricultural sector on the path of wealth generation and value creation,” thereby improving food security and industrialisation of the agricultural sector, while also entrenching inclusive socio-economic growth. He said, “The focus of the road map is the development of agricultural value chains where Lagos has competitive and comparative advantages to enhance self-sufficiency in food production from 18 per cent to 40 per cent over the next five years, and achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. “To successfully implement the road map, we will take a cue from other economies that have achieved self-sufficiency in food production. We will also aim to put the private sector at the heart of our vision for food security in Lagos State, with government as enabler and catalyst.” The state Commissioner for Agriculture, Abisola Olusanya, said the development of the road map started with stakeholders’ engagements and workshops around addressing the needs of the agric ecosystem in the state. She said, “I dream of a Lagos where wholesome food is available, where healthy people thrive, where re-organised system reduces freight congestion, post-harvest losses and increases profits for value chain actors.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com