The ruling All Progressives Congress may not make any significant inroad into the South-South geopolitical zone of the country anytime soon, no thanks to the leadership crisis festering in the region. Political pundits are of the opinion that something urgent must be done to rally the South-South APC ahead of the 2023 general elections The recent Supreme Court judgement on the age-long leadership crisis rocking the Rivers State chapter of the APC appears to have brought relative peace to the zone. Also, the leadership crisis in the Bayelsa State APC, which was triggered by the last governorship poll, is fading out already. However, it appears that the trouble trailing the ruling APC in the South-South has moved to Akwa Ibom State, according to key party chieftains. This time round, Senator Godswill Akapabio and some political bigwigs in Akwa Ibom State are fighting over who should lead the party in the state. The crisis, according to party insiders, has links with some national officers of the APC in Abuja. The development, which has brought instability to the party in the state and by extension the region, is said to have become a source of concern to the Mai Mala Buni-led APC Caretaker Committee. When Akpabio (now Minister of the Niger Delta Affairs) dumped the People’s Democratic Party for the APC on August 8, 2018, he made a commitment to align Akwa Ibom State and indeed the entire South-South with the centre. He had said, “You gave me the ticket in 2015 to represent you on the platform of the PDP. When I saw that the PDP was about to sink, I left for the APC. And now, I can assure you that victory is sure in the APC and I thank the APC for giving me the ticket unopposed. “During the 18 years of the PDP, we didn’t have anything more than the ministers and ambassadors, but President Muhammadu Buhari has given us so many things. “Works have begun on Ikot Ekpene-Calabar Road, the Ikot Ekpene-Aba Road will be dualised and it will be included in the 2019 budget. The Oron-Calabar Road and bridges will be done. You can see why I went to the APC” However, three years down the line, the reasons Akpabio gave for joining the APC have yet to be fulfilled. While work has yet to fully resume on the Ikot Ekpene Road, the Ikot Ekpene-Aba Road has not been dualised. Also, the Oron-Calabar Road is far from being completed. Akpabio’s critics within the Akwa Ibom APC and some elements of the opposition have used this to mock the former governor. Although APC recorded a landslide victory in 2019 presidential election and has a majority standing in both chambers of the legislature, it has continued to suffer electoral misfortunes in the state and the entire South-South region. Political observers have often linked the party’s dismal performance in elections to the political bickering and supremacy battles among the APC bigwigs in the state and the region. These seemingly intractable squabbles, according to insiders, have affected the party structure and may constitute a cog in the wheels of the party’s progress in future elections, if not well managed. Rivers, Edo, Delta, and Cross River state chapters of the APC have had their own share of the leadership crisis in the region. For instance, the supremacy battle between the former National Chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole, and his predecessor, Godwin Obaseki, has been acclaimed as the biggest political debacle of the party in the state. The South-South APC was at a low point during the peak of the political rivalry between Amaechi and Abe in Rivers State. In Cross River State, although reconciliation is about to be achieved, the factionalism of the party has contributed in no small measure to the poor performances of the party in that state. This was reportedly caused by the governorship aspirations of Senator Owan Enoch and a former Minister of the Niger Delta Affairs, Pastor Uguru Sani-Uguru.  The situation is not different in the Delta State APC. Meanwhile, the battle for supremacy in the Akwa Ibom State chapter of the APC has polarised the party in the state. The battle is currently between Godswill Akpabio on the one side and the National Secretary of the APC National Caretaker Committee, John Udoedehe; Umana Umana and other key chieftains of the party on the other side. Observers believe that if the party is to reverse its electoral misfortunes, the crisis must be quickly addressed ahead of 2023 polls. Although the Akwa Ibom State APC trouble had started shortly after Akpabio joined the party, the crisis festered recently when a former military governor of Ogun and Rivers, Group Capt Sam Ewang (retd.), convened a stakeholders meeting on March 28, 2021, and announced Akpabio as the leader of the party in the state. The reactions that trailed the announcement were not only spontaneous, it gave an ominous insight into what was to be expected. The State Working Committee let by its chairman Dr Ita Udosen, quickly convened a meeting of the SWC and declared the resolutions of the Sam Ewang-led stakeholders meeting null and void. The contradictions have further polarised the party with the various factions holding on to their positions. Although party leaders had described the crisis as a family affair which could be resolved at any time, keen observers said the crisis was  capable of spelling doom for the party in the upcoming general elections. Ewang has continued to insist that Akpabio, who is the highest political office holder in the state, is the leader of the party. According to him, allowing any contrary arrangement will jeopardise the fortunes of the party The ex-MILAD alleged that Udoedehe, Umana and other bigwigs had allowed themselves to be “used by an outsider who does not have the interest of Akwa Ibom people at heart.” According to him, some of the political actors are allegedly acting the script of their master for the purposes of getting political appointments. Ewang said, “The problem with the APC in Akwa Ibom State is that some major players who have become servants to an outsider want to be in charge of the South-South and Nigeria. These players have become servants to him because they have been bought and pocketed. “They want to ensure that the people of Akwa Ibom State are subjected to him. They believe their master is an enemy to Akpabio who they believe will always say no to what their master wants. These players have not wished the Akwa Ibom people well. They’re only interested in having their appointments and that is what they are trading for. This is the crux of the matter. “Somebody gave Udoedehe that appointment, somebody gave Umana Umana that appointment and they also believe that in the subsequent government, that same person will have a place.” The former military governor warned that the APC in the state would scatter unless conscious steps were being taken by all stakeholders to make Akpabio the leader of the party. In his reactions, Udoedehe denied all the allegations made by Ewang. Udoedehe, who spoke through his media aide, Mr Ata Etuk,  noted that he was too preoccupied with the assignment of reconciling aggrieved party members than meddle into state politics for now. “The National Secretary of the APC Caretaker Committee, John James Udoedehe, is not aware of any leadership crisis in Akwa Ibom State. He has been on a national assignment of bringing genuine reconciliation to aggrieved members of the party and does not have time to dabble into the affairs of the party at the state level. However, another APC stalwart and coordinator of Legal Matters for the Nsima Ekere Governorship Campaign, Victor Iyanam, believe the dispute will make the party stronger. He said, “In Akwa Ibom State, there is no leadership crisis; the leadership of the party is intact and the party is led by Dr Ita  Udosen who is the caretaker committee chairman. As far as nobody is claiming that Udosen is not the leader of the party, then there is no leadership crisis. “What we have are tendencies within the party and it’s normal for people to have their eyes on certain positions. It is clear that Akpabio is interested in the Presidency of this country and has set up a political organisation in the state. The APC Caretaker Committee Secretary, John James Udoedehe, is interested in the governorship of the state. And others are saying that Senator Ita Enang is also interested in the governorship of the state. All these are tendencies and they are good for the party; they make the party to be vibrant.” On the issue of the leader of the party in the state, Iyanam said it was wrong for some people to believe that a minister should be the leader of the party in a state that is not being controlled by the party. According to him, the party’s constitution gives special preferences to people who have contested elections on its platform, adding that Nsima Ekere who contested governorship on the platform of the party ought to be the leader of the party in the state. He said, “It is not true to say that because you are a minister, you necessarily become the leader of the party. Udo Udoma was a minister in Buhari’s first term. He never showed up and nobody called him. The truth of who should be the leader of the party in a state where there is no governor is the governorship candidate. He is the one who led the party to an election. It’s not a constitutional matter but if you look at the party constitution, preference is given to people who contested elections. Ministers don’t contest elections, they are appointed.” A chieftain of the party in the state, Mr Eseme Eyibo, said the intrigues in the APC should not be described as a crisis, pointing out that party members were only jostling for certain offices. He said “The intrigues in the APC should not be considered to be a battle or a crisis. It’s individuals that are exhibiting their aspirations differently and it has nothing to do with the party. “Akpabio is on one side while John James Udoedehe is on another. Udoedehe wants to become the governor of the state. Akpabio has yet to disclose his ambitions. So, what is happening is an exposure of political aspirations and is manifesting in what people are describing as a crisis,” Eyibo added. The Publicity Secretary of the party, Mr Nkereuwem Eyongekere, however, warned against party members or opposition elements using leadership matter to cause division in the party. According to him, Akpabio remains the patriarch of the party, given his position as a two-term governor of the state. He said, “On the issue of leadership of which many are using to curry their personal favour and appearing as if they love Akpabio more than any other person, we want to state that Akpabio is the patriarch of Akwa Ibom people and his position cannot be belittled to a party leader. His role as a leader cannot be in doubt after serving the state as governor for two terms. So, no one should use leadership issue to smuggle trouble into the APC. He is a man for all, irrespective of his political aspirations. We love him far beyond your imagination and sentiments.” It has yet to be seen if the Buni-led committee will intervene on time to stem the tide of the crisis festering in the state. The age long rivalry between Akpabio and Udoedehe could have contributed to the acrimony in the broom-loving party in the state. Recall that in 2011, the current APC national secretary was the governorship candidate of the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria in Akwa Ibom State while Akapabio flew the ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party.  Before the conduct of the election, there was political violence in Ikot Ekpene andUyo, the state capital. The conflict claimed the lives of many people while uncountable number of tricycles and vehicles were set ablaze.   Similarly, the campaign office of the then President Goodluck Jonathan was torched. The perpetrators of the crisis were said to be supporters of both the ACN and the PDP. Udoedehe was subsequently slammed with a four-count charge bothering on treason by the police at a Federal High Court in Abuja. The then prosecuting counsel, Mr Godwin Ijeoma, told the trial judge, Justice Adamu Bello that 200 cars were burnt during the crisis and put the cost of property destroyed at billions of naira. The former minister of state for the Federal Capital Territory spent some days in police cell before he was subsequently released on bail. Though both antagonists have unbelievably found themselves in the same political party as a result of personal interest, analysts are of the opinion that because the disparagement they have for each other remains unresolved, the two politicians would continue to undermine themselves. Since politicians, they say, hardly forgive each other as well, Udoedehe and his team would think this is the time to hit Akpabio and repay him what he did to them in 2011, especially now that the new group seems to have the listening ears of those controlling the party at the national level. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com