Interaction Channel Limited and Outdoor Advertising Association of Nigeria have partnered to address the need for offline measurement in the Nigerian marketing industry, especially in out-of-home media. ICL and OAAN entered a collaboration arrangement whereby the company’s Moving Audiences Platform would serve to provide a currency of measurement for the OOH sector in Nigeria. The Managing Director, ICL, Mr Tosan Omagbemi, at a press briefing on Thursday in Lagos, said, “At Interaction Channel Limited, we believe that we are engaging an ever-dynamic audience, so brands that would get the right space per time within the consumer/media ecosystem must employ dynamic solutions which our advertising technology company is all about. “This is the next phase for brand custodians that would not only deliver their numbers, but be part of the consumers’ play.” According to him, there are currently over 1,900 unique OOH media assets belonging to over 70 OAAN members on ICL’s Moving Audiences Platform. He said, “Audiences that visit all of these media sites have also been measured since October 2019. Advertisers and media agencies can therefore leverage this solution for planning, buying and more importantly, measure performance of OOH advertising campaigns. Good times are indeed here,” Omagbemi said. “Interaction Channel Limited is noticeably clear on the task ahead. There is a deliberate and ongoing process to ensure that advertisers get the value they deserve anytime they shop for a billboard. This is no longer just about money changing hands, but about exchange of value, dynamic data for dynamic audiences,  innovative brand exposure, automation, campaign effectiveness and efficiency,” he added. He commended the vision of the OAAN president and his executive council for their appreciation for data as the driver of the future of –out-of-home advertising in Nigeria. The President of OAAN, Mr Emmanuel Ajufo, said the initiative would help to boost the growth of outdoor advertising in the country, adding, “The association and the industry are behind it.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com