Dayo Ojerinde As part of activities marking the 2021 World Malaria Day, Reckitt Nigeria, makers of Mortein insecticide Brand, has partnered the National Malaria Elimination Programme and Ogun state government in the fight against malaria. The partnership, which was announced at a briefing in Abeokuta, was to raise the awareness of malaria prevention in Nigeria. The Ogun State Commissioner for Health in Ogun State, Dr. Tomi Coker, said there was the need to ensure that proven interventions were deployed towards malaria elimination in the state Coker, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary in the state Ministry of Health, Dr. Ayinde Adesanya, said, “I wish to appreciate the assistance rendered by our partners – especially Reckitt, makers of Mortein insecticide and donor agencies. I call for the support and cooperation of all and sundry to ensure that all aspects of malaria elimination programmes are addressed and are well funded for the benefit of all and particularly our children and pregnant mothers.” The Marketing Director, Reckitt Nigeria, Mr Tanzim Rezwan, said the community engagement and collaborations were part of numerous purpose-driven initiatives by Mortein to stem the prevalence of the malaria scourge in Nigeria and Africa as a whole. “At Reckitt, every day, in everything we do, we are driven by our purpose which is to protect, heal and nurture in the relentless pursuit of a cleaner and healthier world. As a leading global insecticide brand, we are committed to empowering our consumers with knowledge and expert solutions to rid themselves of vector-borne diseases such as malaria. In that spree, we not only try to bring in the world-class products to the consumers but also aspire to drive awareness on preventive measures.” According to United Nations for Child Mortality Education, 91,250 children under the age of five die of malaria each year, 60 per cent of people who visit the hospital are diagnosed with malaria and four out of five people are at risk of contracting malaria in Nigeria. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com