There has been some political stability in Anambra State until gunmen attacked one of the governorship aspirants on the platform of your party, Prof Chukwuma Soludo. How did you receive the news? First of all, we condemn the attack in its entirety. Police investigations are still ongoing and they are yet to make any categorical statement on what happened in terms of those culpable. I’m not part of the investigation team and won’t be able to say anything. We are waiting for the police to report back to reveal their findings and the outcome of the investigation. To me, what happened was unfortunate and shouldn’t have because of the long history of peace, tranquility and progress the state has witnessed since Governor Willie Obiano came into office. Why we are so pained is because of the loss of three gallant policemen. You know, once life is involved, it becomes a serious matter. However, I want our people to know that there is nothing in this life. Nothing! For anyone to kill another because of power or whatever is most unfortunate. I believe every life is in God’s hands and He determines what happens to us at any time. Before we were formed in our mother’s womb, He knew us, including the number of days we would spend on earth. However, you can see there is insecurity in the entire country, so it wasn’t peculiar to Soludo. You believe the attack wasn’t about him? I wouldn’t want people to narrow it to Soludo or APGA. Nigeria is in a state of anomy and what is happening across the country is unfortunate. We have to pray that God will save our nation. If you read my Easter message, it was very clear. I mentioned that the redemptive power of the blood of the risen Christ will save this nation from destruction. I don’t have any fear about it. What happened to Soludo had only strengthened him. We’re not deterred in any form. After all, what happened in Isuofia can’t match the one that happened in 2017 when Obiano was seeking a second term. The threat then was something else, but he pulled through because God had destined him to be there. APGA is yet to hold its primary which should be between June and July and when we get to the bridge we would cross it. I don’t need to speculate because we are not sure of tomorrow, including the attackers. What people should learn is to be humble and enjoy life as they witness each day. Nobody has the power to choose another person’s destiny. So, personally, I’m not worried. What happened has strengthened all of us to continue to work harder to achieve victory on November 6, and victory for APGA is sacrosanct. Even if you remove 100 persons, it can’t stop the victory. If you want power, seek God’s face and work harder. Touch the lives of people who are the ones to vote. It’s not violence that gives victory. APGA has delivered the dividends of democracy to the people of Anambra State and there is no party that has done what APGA has done all over Nigeria. With the support of the people, it will continue to serve the people better than it has done over the years. Some people have said the incident was a reflection of the security under Obiano. Let me tell you, Obiano’s outstanding performance has become a global thing. The whole world is aware of it. Darkness can never extinguish light. It’s not possible. This governor has served the people truthfully. The results are there. This is a governor that pays salaries as and when due, including pensions, gratuity and leave allowance. He touched all sectors and Anambra remains the most peaceful state in Nigeria. What you see are deliberately designed to create fear, but rather getting our people frightened, they are more resolute. Obiano has done well. The international airport will become operational by the end of this month and those fighting the governor will also use the airport. They know the war they are fighting is futile. As we speak, traders in Onitsha and well-meaning people of the state are eagerly waiting for the airport to be completed. They know they can’t defeat our party regardless of who is our candidate. Our party has been in power for 16 years and we will continue. Before APGA came on board, Anambra State was like a jungle but that is in the past now. I see APGA continuing to rule as long as political parties continue to exist in Nigeria. Aspirants in your party seem to be attacking themselves, are you worried? This is democracy and they are free to exercise their constitutional rights, including freedom of association and expression. For now, they are trying to win people to their sides and I don’t see anything wrong with that since we have not even held our primary. By the time a candidate emerges from our primary, others will queue behind the person. That is the proper thing to do. Look at the other parties; Peoples Democratic Party has a very terrible record in Anambra and what is left of the party is the carcass. We formed PDP in 1998. I was a member of the party’s Constitution Drafting Committee. Today, they have used the PDP and dumped it and created another one called the All Progressives Congress. APC is worse; it doesn’t exist in Anambra and the entire South-East, not to talk of winning. Forget the abracadabra they did in Imo State. In the last election, PDP won five seats because of the overestimated popularity of Peter Obi in the state. They thought he would become the Vice-President so they voted for him. But I made it clear before that election that any vote for Peter Obi and co would end up in River Niger. People of Anambra State and Igbo in general should study the dynamics of Nigeria’s political system. We have been in the business for a very long time so we can read the pulse of this nation politically. Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodimma, said the APC would mobilise both seen and unseen forces to win the Anambra governorship election, how would you react to that? Mobilise what? Who is he? This election will be unopposed. I don’t want to mention names because they know themselves. The man you are talking about, I don’t know the magic he will use. He is my friend, I don’t talk down on my friends. But he will meet a brick wall here. On the election day, he can’t step into this place. Anambra State is not Edo State. The Holy Ghost fire that will operate on that day will consume all of them unless they scamper to safety. Quote me on that. Obiano has performed excellently; it’s only natural he anoints a successor whom he would present to the people for confirmation through their votes. That’s how it’s done. Meanwhile, Anambra voters are exposed and they have a discerning mind to know what is best for them. When you spoke about the incumbent having an anointed candidate to succeed him, did you mean Soludo because there have been rumours to that effect? When I talked about anointing, I meant choice, then the people would confirm. APGA is God’s own party and God will always appoint a good leader for them. Peter Obi came, he did his best, Obiano came, he is doing better and the person to come after him will do their best. What Anambra needs is sustainable development. How many persons have approached the party to contest the governorship on its platform? We follow the Independent National Electoral Commission’s time table. INEC said from June 10 to July 3, you should be able to conduct your primaries and produce a candidate and that is what we are going to work with. Every other thing is speculation. Our candidate will emerge between June 10 and July 3. We are law abiding and we follow due process. We have been praying, which is the force that moves the hand that rules the world. We believe that at the fullness of time, God will bring the anointed candidate. People have always complained about the cost of expression of interest and nomination forms, how much should the aspirants in your party be looking for? When we get to the bridge we will cross it. The bridge is still far; it’s four months away. Money is not the issue now. Even if it means selling the forms free, we will do that. All we want is a quality candidate. Money will not play any role in our primary because we are contented with what we have. We are the first political party in Nigeria to own a property in Abuja as our own office.  Go to the presidency and INEC, they say it. If other parties could be like APGA, political parties won’t be changing addresses anyhow. They would have permanent addresses. How do you achieve a sustainable political system? It is by ensuring you build institutions within the political system. That’s what we are doing in APGA, building institutions that will outlive us. That’s why I’m not bothered about who will succeed me when my tenure is over. Even if you bring Satan as my successor the institution we have built will be able to checkmate such a person. You don’t come in and do whatever you like. We are teaching other parties how political parties should be run prudently to enable them to survive the pressure of politicking in Nigeria. How ready are you for the election? We are ready for the election, even if it’s tomorrow, we will go and win it because we have the people behind us. We have delivered; Obiano and APGA have delivered. While PDP is in hemorrhage, APC is dead in Anambra. Our people have outgrown money politics. It’s an insult to the psyche of our people to be asking them to collect N200 to people to get their vote. We believe in touching lives and we have programmes for the youth. Our people are productive because there is security and an enabling environment for them to thrive. There is always the fear of federal might being brought to bear in elections in Nigeria, do you have such fears? People are dropping the name of President Muhammadu Buhari unnecessarily. I’m an insider in the Buhari Government and I know the President is not that kind of leader. He doesn’t influence elections nor does he interfere. If he does, he would have interfered in that of Edo State, but he didn’t. Uzodimma and his team went to Edo, including (Governor of Kano State, Abdullahi) Ganduje. Nobody knew when they left Benin; because when they saw the results coming in that night, they disappeared before morning. The same thing will happen in Anambra. We have the capacity to protect our votes. If it’s the Buhari I know very well, he won’t support anything that will cause chaos or crisis in this state. Buhari is an honourable man, he loves progress. Let me tell you three reasons I was appointed into a Federal Government steering committee. One, they said APGA has a very strong presence in the National Assembly. Two, that Governor Obiano is performing excellently; therefore, he should be emulated. Three, APGA has a national office in Abuja. Those were the three reasons I was appointed. If you want to talk of rigging, Buhari doesn’t rig elections. If he had wanted to rig, every state in Nigeria would have been APC, because he has the capacity to do that. I have had very solid experience in politics in Nigeria. You can’t rig out a popular candidate. You can only rig elections that are very close, too-close to call, not when your opponent scores 7,000 and you have 3,000. How will you rig that figure? It’s impossible. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com