Everyone entered the year 2021 with high hopes especially because of the pains felt in 2020 due to the worldwide COVID-19 pandemic which affected every sector of the economy. Despite the aspiration some young and vibrant entertainers had for this year, sadly their lives were cut short due to several reasons. The Punch highlights six young entertainers who have died this year.   Ada Jesus Popular Nigerian comedienne, Mercy Cynthia Ginikachukwu, fondly referred to as Ada Jesus, is died on April 21, 2021. The comedienne died two days after celebrating her birthday. The young lady had been battling kidney disease that left her incapacitated before her death. The mother of one died at 22.  Dr Frabz Iconic Nigerian music producer, Ayorinde Faboro also known as Dr Frabz died on February 28, 2021inthe United States of America. The death of the prolific music producer was confirmed to The PUNCH by his colleague, Samklef. However, according to a tweet by popular singer Nikki Laoye, the music producer was shot in the US.  Rachel Bakam Popular television presenter and mother of one, Rachel Bakam, died at the age of 38. In an exclusive chat with The PUNCH, her brother, Armstrong Bakam, revealed that Rachel died on April 13 at noon on Tuesday with her mother by her bedside. Also an actress, she died after battling anaemia.  Ernest Asuzu Iconic Nollywood actor, Ernest Azuzu, died on January 27, 2021, at 37. It was gathered that he slumped and died on Tuesday evening. The president of the Actors Guild of Nigeria, Emeka Rollas, confirmed his death to The Punch. The actor came down with a stroke in 2015 which affected his speech. He was also bedridden for three years. This affected his acting career and he was off the screen for many years.  DJ Babus The popular Disc jockey, Babatunde Bello aka DJ Babus died on January 29, 2021, after contracting COVID-19. The deceased was once Talent Manager at KnightHouse, The Creative Entertainment Company where popular acts like Mo Cheddah, Phenom rose to stardom.  David Mela Fast-rising actor, David Mela died on January 11, 2021, after battling with an undisclosed ailment. After the news broke out, his social media page was filled with condolence message from family, friends and fans.  