The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Friday said the efforts by his regime to address the impact of climate change had translated into food sufficiency, less hunger, better livelihoods and reduced poverty, among others. According to a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, the President spoke at a Virtual Leaders Summit on Climate. The statement was titled ‘Climate action: Nigeria ready to galvanise stakeholders, support multilateral processes for attainment of Paris Agreement, says President Buhari.’ Adesina quoted the President as telling world leaders that Nigeria was one of the most vulnerable nations, and it had started undertaking major environmentally sound and climate-friendly programmes, while treading the path of sustainability. “President Buhari said the overall outcome of the highlighted actions had translated into food supply sufficiency, improved nutrition, less hunger, increased employment, new job opportunities, better livelihoods, reduced poverty, decreased vulnerability to health challenges and higher quality of life,” the statement read. Adesina further quoted the President as saying, “We are expeditiously implementing programmes that stimulate gradual transition from the use of wood stoves to kerosene, Liquefied Natural Gas, biogas and electricity. “The immediate effects include healthy competition among private sector players leading to higher productivity, employment and faster service delivery. “In the agriculture production and supply chain sector, we are targeting improved efficiency and productivity through the provision of accurate and timely weather forecasting to farmers, supply of drought tolerant and early maturing crop varieties and promoting empowerment towards the diversification of sources of livelihoods. “Beyond ending gas flaring by 2030, the oil and gas sector has undertaken steps for diversification; risk management system; insurance hedging; research and development and emergency/crisis planning.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com