Within the last week, a war of words has ensued over the management of the Nigerian economy with Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State firing the first salvo by accusing the Federal Government of the catastrophic management of the economy, alleging that the FG is printing money to fund federal allocations. Nigeria’s Finance Minister, Mrs Zainab Ahmed, fired back in these words: “The issue that was raised by the Edo State Governor, for me, is very sad because it is not a fact. What we distribute at FAAC is revenue that is generated and in fact, distribution of revenue is public information. We publish revenue generated by the FIRS, the Customs and the NNPC and we distribute at FAAC. So, it is not true to say we printed money to distribute at FAAC. It is not true”. READ ALSO: Looking beyond Twitter’s choice of office Obaseki returned fire that as an investment banker he stands by his words. This is how he put his rebuttal of the statement issued by the Finance Minister: “The Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, should rally Nigerians to stem the obvious fiscal slide facing our country. Rather than play the Ostrich, we urge the government to take urgent steps to end the current monetary rascality, so as to prevent the prevailing economic challenge from degenerating further. We believe it is imperative to approach the Nigerian project with all sense of responsibility and commitment and not play to the gallery because ultimately, time shall be the judge of us all.” It became clear that between Obaseki and the Finance Minister, one person was not telling the truth given that their views were diametrically opposed. All this while as the crossfire raged, the CBN Gov was mute until he was captured on camera issuing threats to Obaseki and other governors who were bailed out in 2015/16 that recovery action will begin immediately against them if they don’t stop accusing the government of printing money! Instructively, the CBN governor did not outright deny that the government is printing money but did not concede either. As pressure mounted on the FG, specifically on the Finance Minister and the CBN governor, to come clean to Nigerians on what is actually going on, Emefiele finally caved in and conceded that Nigeria is printing money, in a tweet issued on Friday, April 16, 2021 in the following words: “The concept of printing of money is about lending money and that is our job…It will be irresponsible for the CBN or any Central Bank or Fed to stand idle and refuse to support its government at a time like this.” Now that the Federal Government has conceded that they are indeed printing money, let us therefore examine what this means from a layman’s point of view and the impact on our economy. The CBN prints two types of money: The printing of money in dispute here is the digital money not the physical cash. When Central Banks print digital money, it is called Quantitative Easing (QE). QE is a monetary policy tool that central banks use to inject money directly into the economy. So, let us say the Federal Government account at the CBN has a balance of N500 billion deposited by the revenue generation agencies of government such as the FIRS, DPR, NNPC, Customs etc. But this money is not enough for government to spend, so the government asks the CBN to print money. The CBN simply credits government’s account with say N300 billion thus the balance in the government account is now N800 billion which it will now spend. To be clear, there is nothing wrong with using QE. Governments all over the world use QE to jumpstart their economies. The US, the UK etc governments used QE in the 2008 economic crash and even more recently in the pandemic-hit economies. So, if QE is a known, tested and tried monetary economic policy tool, why was the government of Nigeria ashamed to disclose to the citizens that it was using QE? And even when they were exposed by Obaseki, why was the government still denying until they were forced to concede? The plausible answer is that Nigeria was making the wrong use of QE. There are two halves to QE which are, printing the money and using the printed money; if you don’t get the balance right, then, QE, instead of helping to jumpstart the economy, rather ruins it: To avoid the QE timebomb from exploding on the economy, traditionally the governments spend QE money in very restricted ways which include: So, why was the Nigerian government  ashamed to admit they were using QE? Does it mean the Finance Minister was not aware of the sources of inflow into the federation account upon which she presides by saying the money was from the FIRS, the NNPC, Customs etc and not from QE? Or was she fully aware that the federation account was being funded by QE but set out to deceive Nigerians and pull wool over their faces? Either option does not look good on the Finance Minister. The plausible reasons the government was ashamed to admit the use of QE is because while they are printing digital money, which is the first half of QE, they are totally mismanaging the second half because it is neither buying back bonds nor bailing out ailing industries with QE. Instead, government is sharing the money to the three tiers/arms of government. And we know that the federal, state and local governments are not using the QE to buy bonds or bail out the ailing industries. The states and LGs are not even paying workers! A huge part of these monies ends up being looted! To be concluded Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com