THE Senator representing Edo Central, Clifford Ordia, has explained how he was attacked by bandits on two occasions on Monday, along the Okenne-Lokoja and Lokoja-Abaji roads. Ordia, who heads the Senate Committee on Local and Foreign Debts, told journalists on Wednesday that he escaped death by a whisker when the suspected bandits opened fire on his convoy, while returning to Abuja from his hometown in Edo State. He said, “During the exchange of fire between the criminals and security officers attached to me, three policemen sustained gunshot wounds. “One of the wounded policemen is in a critical condition, but responding to treatment in one of the hospitals in Abuja.” He said his personal vehicle was riddled with bullets, though he was lucky to have escaped unhurt. “I’m seriously traumatised by the experience. We were coming from Edo State; somewhere between Okenne and Lokoja, when we met these suspected bandits. They opened fire on my convoy. The gallant policemen had to immediately return fire. “The other security vehicle behind had to immediately join them and they were able to repel the suspected bandits. During the exchange, three of the policemen sustained gun wounds. One of them was critically injured. We had to immediately rush them to a Federal Medical Centre in Lokoja, Kogi State. “They did their best and were able to stabilise them. I had to immediately put a call across the Federal Medical Centre in Abuja to be on standby. One of the policemen had a bullet lodged close to his liver. “We met another setback around Abaji. There was traffic because of the incidence and because we had to save the lives of the wounded policemen, we decided to make a move. They opened fire on us. Some vigilantes had to join the policemen and they were chased into the bush. He called on the Federal Government to immediately initiate moves to restructure the security architecture of the country, warning that no one is safe anymore. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com