The organiser of the Blooming Minds Young Writers Awards, Mrs Thelma Ofosu-Asamoah, has called on the government to build creative writing hubs for children. Ofosu-Asamoah made this remark at the 5th Annual Blooming Minds Young Writers Awards which took place in Lagos recently. She said, “Government can build hubs where kids can go for creative writing; they can write there and learn more, they will also be given books which they can read to stimulate their minds. It is about building leadership and their minds.” Ofosu-Asamoah also said the award which had over 2000 entries was aimed at raising young leaders through arts and literacy adding that it was sponsored by Genesis Energy. “We started in 2017; It is all about getting children to be analytic and research-driven. They should own their originality as opposed to looking at other cultures as superior to ours. We had different people that applied for the award. They wrote about COVID-19, because we operate in two countries; Ghana and Nigeria. Before the pandemic, we went to schools but we couldn’t go this year but we sent emails, we have coordinators and we had entries from across the country.” Ofosu-Asamoah explained that the award was in two categories, “Category A is target 10-15years old writers and  category B targets six to nine years old writers. The competition will help them in academics and  It will build their literacy and the use of words. To encourage children to write, give them a variety of things to do and write.” A student of Ansarudeen College, Isolo, Maryam Shiyanbade, who was the winner in the category A got N100,000 and 1st runner-up, Adaobi Okonkwo received a sum of  N80,000; winner in the category B, Michael Imogu, got N50,000 and while the first runner-up Chinelo Okoye received N25,000. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com