A veteran journalist, Chief  Lekan Alabi, on Wednesday,  met with the  Nobel Laureate, Prof. Wole Soyinka, 52 years after he was invited  by the playwright . Alabi, who was the Press Secretary to four governors of the old Oyo State from 1983 to 1989, met with  Soyinka in his Abeokuta residence. Alabi explained that he was invited by the playwright in 1969 after being released from the prison to show appreciation for a letter he wrote in Soyinka’s solidarity while being detained by the military government. The veteran journalist and Public Relations expert  further explained that he had in 1967 written  a letter to the then Head of State, Yakubu Gowon, to express displeasure over what he described as “illegal” arrest of the Nobel Laureate. He said despite being 19-year-old at that time, he suggested in the letter that Soyinka should either be released or taken to court. Alabi also said he wrote another letter to the Nobel Laureate in prison where he pledged his solidarity to him. He further disclosed that Soyinka replied his letter when he was released in 1969 and also invited him to visit him at School of Drama at the University of Ibadan. He added, “today, 52 years after, it has pleased God that I honour the kind invitation extended to me in 1969 while I was a 19-year-old student of African Church Grammar School, Apata Ganga, Ibadan by Professor (then Mr) Wole Soyinka. “At the outbreak of the Nigeria Civil War, sometime in 1967, the then military Head of State of Nigeria, General Yakubu Gowon, was quoted in the blazing front page headline of the Daily Times newspaper as vowing that, ‘Wole Soyinka will remain in prison as long as the war lasts -Gowon.’ “As an admirer of the detainee (Soyinka) and a human rights campaigner, I objected to the  decision of the Gowon-led FMG to clamp Soyinka into indefinite detention at the Kaduna Prison, on the allegation of his visiting the then Military Governor of the Eastern Region of Nigeria, the late Lieutenant Colonel Chukwuemeka Odumegwu-Ojukwu, who was on the verge of seceding the region from Nigeria, declaring it the Republic of Biafra. “Two years later, in 1969, Professor Wole Soyinka was released from indefinite detention without trial. He wrote me a letter of appreciation, and invited me to visit him at the School of Drama, UI. The day I kept the appointment in UI, Prof. Soyinka’s secretary told me he was out of town. I, nevertheless, left a note behind. “It was not that I did not see Prof. Soyinka since then, at various places and occasions. I never for once broke protocols to introduce myself to him as the secondary school boy who wrote the letters.” While presenting the Nobel Laureate with his biography, Alabi noted that Soyinka was a role model. Soyinka appreciated the veteran journalist for the visit and the support during his time in the prison. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com