Money is more than a medium of exchange, a measure of value or a means of payment. It is an influence that gives you control, provides access, and creates a healthy state of mind that assures you can achieve your needs at the point they arise. In contemporary parlance, money is said to open, shut and create doors of opportunities. It is also a mood changer. There is a debate on whether money buys you the needed happiness, but it is irrefutable that it gives you a competitive edge on the journey towards self-respect, self-worth, and true happiness. Despite the incontestable awareness of the value of money, it remains a significant source of stress and anxiety for the average Nigerian adult grappling with financial management – how do I earn more, spend less and still live comfortable? This concern would undoubtedly be more pronounced with the socio-economic consequences of the COVID 19 pandemic on individuals and businesses. A 2019 Financial Employee Wellness Survey by PwC states that “in the last 12 months, the number of employees stressed about their finances increased across all generations, particularly among millennials who recorded 71% of the total number of respondents”. While this is obvious, the time is now to stop being afraid of your finances. It is time to control it and be its boss. This article identifies three simple ways to become a money boss, channelling your money into different areas of wealth creation and financial stability. 1.  Earn an income This goes without saying; you must earn an income for you to be a money boss. You cannot manage or control what you do not have. An income is a payment received for regular work or through investments. So, firstly, get a job; this helps you secure a steady source of income. Knowing that you earn a specific amount either daily, weekly, or monthly helps plan effectively for your expenditures. You can also have multiple income sources if the policy at your workplace permits a ‘side hustle’. Better still, you can joggle running a business alongside your present employment during the weekends or free hours. 2.  Choose to become indispensable Simply put, be exceptional at what you do, be it as an employee or an entrepreneur. Choosing to be productive, innovative, and solutions-driven helps create a sustainable income as your skills and expertise would always be in demand. Please do not rely on tips from family and friends as this is not an assured or sustainable way to keep the income coming. You have to consider that even friends and family would always plan for their immediate needs before reaching out to others. 3.  Spend less than you earn Spending less than you earn should be a habit you master if you want to actualise your quest to become a money boss as this is a crucial step towards achieving financial freedom. Although it sounds simple, executing this plan requires frugal discipline because we live in a world where access to buying our whims is now just a few clicks away, making impulsive spending the order of the day. Therefore, you must choose to restrain yourself from spending too much on wants without a proper budget and creating room for emergencies. For instance, health falls into an emergency spend as no one plans to fall ill at a particular time. This kind of scenario can result in out-of-pocket expenditure, which can eat deep into your earnings, especially when you have spent more than planned for the period. Without a doubt, most financial problems stem from how poor you spend what you earn. So instead of spending your energy on making more money to cover the budget hole, develop the habit of spending less by distinguishing wants from the nice-to-have and adopting the culture of “what if this happens”. 4.  Have a smart financial plan Several financial tools can help guide and help you plan your finances properly without stress– paying your bills or saving for short term or long-term goals. One of the tools designed to help you achieve the dream of being the ‘Money Boss’ with less hassle is the Leadway Smart Cash Plan. This innovative financial plan allows you to save money ahead of stormy days while offering you the competitive advantage of reaching your financial goals within a minimum of one year – either for your education, payment of bills, buying that new car or whatever your short-term goals. You can save a low as N5,000 (Five thousand naira only) monthly. The product also leaves you room for easy cash management by allowing monthly, quarterly, semi-annually, or annually payments plan. In addition to these, you are also assured of a competitive interest rate. There is more; unlike most savings plan, this plan provides additional financial protection with a life cover that ensures that your beneficiaries are compensated up to N2,000,000.00 should death occur due to natural causes, accident or COVID 19 during the savings plan tenure.  This additional provision means you get more value for your money by choosing this savings policy – interest on your savings and life cover for your loved ones. To start the Leadway Smart Cash Plan, you can visit www.leadway.com/smartcash or please call the Leadway Assurance customer care helpline on 01-2800-700. You can also send an email to Lcs@leadway.com for professional advisory or request a call back by visiting www.leadway.com/call-me. We are within your reach on our social media outlets – @LeadwayAssurance on Facebook & Instagram, @Leadwayinsure on Twitter. You can send a DM, and we would revert with all the information you require.