Nigerian celebrities have worked hard for their money. Many of them have grass-to-grace stories as they built their brand from the scratch. Little wonder they flaunt their wealth unapologetically on their social media pages, often to the delight of their teeming fans. The PUNCH highlights six Nigerian celebrities with gorgeous mansions. Timaya Fondly called ‘The Egberi Papa 1 of Bayelsa’, Timaya has been in the Nigerian music industry for over a decade and has earned his stripes during that period. For the past 10 years, he has been dishing out hit songs and shows no sign of slowing down. From hawking plantain on the streets of Bayelsa, the ace singer made his way to Lagos and became a backup singer for the veteran musician, Eedris Abdulkareem. Years later, he found his footing in the music industry and precisely in 2005, he released the song ‘Dem Mama’ and followed up with his debut album, True Story, in 2006. Ever since he has become one of the biggest artistes in the Nigerian music industry. In 2018, the singer acquired a magnificent house in the highbrow area of Lekki. The tastefully furnished house is reportedly worth between N250m and N500m and has a penthouse and a cute living room for his daughters. Upon acquiring the house, the singer’s friends shared some pictures and video snippets of the interior and exterior of the house. His beautiful edifice is also equipped with a standard studio, a state-of-the-art gymnasium and a swimming pool to cool off. AY Comedian Decades ago, funny man, Ayo Makun, decided to migrate from Delta State to Lagos State in search of greener pastures. Years later, that decision would be one of the best he made in his life. Embarking on a journey with so much uncertainty, the comedian arrived in Lagos and hustled to the best of his ability. As life threw limes at him, the humour merchant made lemonade out of them. Today, he is one of the most successful comedians in Nigeria. When it comes to selling out shows, the comedian has the key in his pouch with the successes recorded with his AY Live show. He ventured into movies and, in a short while, inked his name in the Guinness Book of World Records with his debut movie ‘30 Days in Atlanta’ as the highest-grossing movie in the history of Nigerian cinema with a box-office total of N137 million at the time. He has produced several blockbuster movies since then. Married to a delectable interior decorator, Mabel, it is no surprise that the interior of the house looks like a fairy tale castle. Going with an all-white theme, the comedian’s house is nothing short of breathtaking. It is equipped with a state-of-the-art gym, a swimming pool, and a table tennis spot among other facilities. He also has an expensive grand piano, which his daughter plays to his delight. More so, the view from the upper floor of his duplex is wonderful, especially at night. His house further features a mini wine cellar. No doubt, his wife did a good job setting up their tasteful palatial mansion. Don Jazzy Ever since Don Baba Jay got into the Nigerian music industry, he has placed himself on a pedestal that many only dreams of. True to his name, the Don has not only made classic hits since the days of ‘Tongolo’ with his erstwhile partner, D’banj, he has also made stars in the Nigerian music space. In recent times, he has also shown his fans his funny side via his Instagram page and collaboration with online skit makers. The legendary beatmaker recently acquired an astonishing multimillion-naira two-storey mansion at Lekki. He shared the good news on Instagram and soon after, his comment section was filled with congratulatory messages. Sharing a video of his exquisite edifice, the Mavin record boss disclosed that he is a minimalist, as the video featured his living room, dining, study, artwork among others. E-Money Music executive and the Chief Executive Officer of 5-Star Music Group, E-Money, lives in a house fit for a king. With his gold-themed interior decor, his multimillion-naira mansion, located on Banana Island, is jaw-dropping. The house, which is reportedly worth close to a billion naira, has a swimming pool, a penthouse and a state-of-the-art sports facility. Davido Popstar, Davido, recently moved from his mansion in Lekki to the super highbrow Banana Island ― an area in Lagos that houses the super-rich in the country. While announcing his new acquisition, the singer posted via his Snapchat that his mansion has an elevator, a swimming pool and an ultra-modern gym facility. The apartment also has a studio. Iyabo Ojo Earlier this year iconic actress, Iyabo Ojo, whom some people refer to as the Queen of Tik Tok became a landlady as she acquired a huge house in Lekki. Shortly after she made the announcement, she did a housewarming party which was attended by an A-List Nollywood crowd. Her fans were not left out as the mother of two gave her followers a glimpse of the edifice via her Instagram page. It was nothing short of breathtaking. Her home has multiple rooms as well as a walk-in closet, a pantry, a gold-furnished dining room, and more.