UFC featherweight star Sodiq Yusuff says Mixed Martial Arts is less dangerous than boxing. The MMA is considered one of the most dangerous sports in the world due to its use of close to bare knuckles and combination of most combat sports techniques, including wrestling, grappling, judo, karate, jiu jitsu, a situation that leaves most opponents and winners bloodied after 15 to 25 minutes of action in the octagon. While fighters in the MMA make use of almost every part of their bodies (legs, elbows, knees, fists) during fights, professional boxers only make use of their fists, which is protected by well-padded gloves, but Yusuff insists boxing is more dangerous, with the head the major target. “Believe it or not, boxing is a lot more dangerous than MMA because in boxing, the targets you can go for aren’t that many, so those guys are constantly getting hit in the head over and over, and when they get concussed, they raise them back up and count 10 seconds and recharge again. So, you’re going through multiple concussions in one fight,” Yusuff told The PUNCH. “However, in the MMA, if a person falls, and you get on top of him, the fight is over and because of all the other targets you could hit, like the legs and kicking and going for submissions, you’re not getting concussive shots.” According to statistics on howtheyplay.com, between 1890 and 2019, 1,876 boxers died as a direct result of injuries sustained in bouts. Prior to that, there were 266 documented deaths from 1740 to 1889, the era before gloves were introduced and boxers fought bare-knuckled. However, there have been no deaths in UFC history. As for MMA in general, there were seven deaths in sanctioned fights and nine in unsanctioned fights, according to wayofmartialarts.com. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com