Men of the Oyo State Security Network Agency, otherwise called Amotekun Corps, in collaboration with personnel of the Oodua People’s Congress and Vigilante Group of Nigeria, on Thursday, arrested six suspected bandits in the Kajola Local Government Area of Oyo State. The arrest was made while the operatives were on a joint patrol on the Okeho-Ilua and Okeho-Iseyin roads around 4am. In a related development, five bandits were apprehended in the Saki East Local Government Area of the state in the early hours of Thursday. The Commandant, Amotekun Corps, Col. Olayinka Olayanju (retd.), who made the disclosure, said the suspects were arrested during encounters with security agents at two illegally-mounted roadblocks. The suspected hoodlums were identified as Auwalu Atine, Ibrahim Abu, Shuaib Balau, Ibrahim Musa, Abdullah Masika and Umar Aliu Masika. Olayanju said preliminary interrogation revealed that the bandits were of Bororo Fulani extract. The commandant stated that the operatives pursued and arrested the bandits while trying to evade arrest, adding that the operatives were still on the trail of others, who managed to escape from the scene. Shedding light on the suspects’ mode of operation, Olayanju said the hoodlums pretended to be herdsmen at daytime, but became violent at night, robbing innocent passengers on the roads. He added that they were caught with 183 cows, weapons and the sum of N268,470. According to Olayanju, the suspects have been handed over to the police at the Okeho Division alongside the 183 cows, weapons and money found in their possession for further investigation. He added that those nabbed in Saki East had been handed over the Divisional Police Officer in the area. He urged members of the public to avail security operatives of necessary information that could lead to the arrests of bandits. Olayanju stated, “They were arrested in separate incidents following encounters at two illegally-mounted roadblocks. They tried to escape from the scene, but they were given a hot pursuit by the operatives. We are still on the trail of others, who managed to escape from the scenes. “The bandits, whose modus operandi, is to pretend as herdsmen in the day and violently rob innocent passengers on the highways at night, were caught with 183 cows, weapons and the sum of N268,470. “They have been handed over to the Nigeria Police Force, Okeho Divisional Headquarters, alongside the 183 cows, weapons and money found in their possession for further investigation. “Those with necessary information that can help law enforcement agencies in their investigation are enjoined to cooperate and report to the nearest police authority for proper investigation.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com