A former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria and ex-presidential candidate, Prof Kingsley Moghalu, has said that Isa Pantami should never have scaled the vetting process that saw him emerge as the Minister of Communication and Digital Economy. Pantami has been under fire of late over sermons he delivered in the past that allegedly had him sympathising with terrorist organisations – Al-Qaeda and the Taliban – a thing he says he has repented of. However, Moghalu believes that the timing of Pantami’s recants means that he must have been harbouring those views while serving as minister. READ ALSO: Kaduna abductions: Banditry now war situation, govt should cooperate –Gumi He also faulted the Presidency’s decision to support Pantami whom he says should not continue to serve as a minister. “I have refrained so far from commenting on the #Pantami controversy. From information available: anyone can make a mistake, and has the right to recant from it. But when the evidence shows that a serving minister of Nigeria has expressed open support for global terrorist groups, he should never have scaled the vetting process and been approved for that office,” he tweeted. READ ALSO: Malami should be compelled to prosecute Pantami for terrorism –Ozekhome “The implication of the timing of Pantami’s recanting of his views now is that he has been serving as a minister while presumably still harbouring those views. His disagreement with Boko Haram does not absolve him of, at the very least moral culpability for supporting Al Qaeda and the Taliban. “For this reason, Pantami should not continue to serve as a Minister. For him to remain in his position, and for Presidency to support this, is to tell Nigerians that we have two sets of standards from the very same government, one for the likes of former Finance Minister Kemi Adeosun who had to resign for wrongdoing in her past, and another for Pantami. “This position of presidency undermines public accountability, as well as Nigeria’s struggle against terrorism.” READ ALSO: Malami should be compelled to prosecute Pantami for terrorism –Ozekhome