There was a free flow of emotions as family members, friends, colleagues, fans and sympathisers cried at the burial ceremony of actress and television presenter, Rachel Bakam. Many of the guests wept uncontrollably at the funeral which took place on Friday at Gudu Cemetery in Wuse, Abuja. Bakam, who hailed from Kaduna State, died on April 13, 2021, at the age of 38, after battling with pneumonia. The deceased’s mother, Rose Bakam, while speaking at the burial, recounted her last moments with her daughter while still on admission in the hospital. She said, “I just want to share the last moments I had in the hospital with my daughter. On four different occasions, she mentioned that she felt her spirit was leaving her and I told her, ‘No, your spirit will not leave you because you are not going anywhere’. “Three times, she wept and when I ask why she was weeping, she said she was worried about her son and those who looked up to her. Also, three different times, she laughed out loud and when I asked why she was laughing, she said she knew she was going to rest very soon. “Two times, she told me that she saw herself dressed in white robes with a crown. “To my daughter at the right hand of God, resting with the Creator, we will meet one day, never to part again.” Several friends, business associates and church members also spoke glowingly about the deceased’s sterling qualities. She was described as lovely, lively, hardworking, humble and someone who was always ready to make sacrifices for others. She was a graduate of English and Theatre Arts from the Ahmadu Bello University, before proceeding to New York Film Academy, where she studied Digital Filmmaking. Prior to her death, Bakam was the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of Rayzeds Media Limited, as well as the Founder and President of the Nigerian Water Ski and Wakeboard Federation. She hosted ‘Trends & Rachel’ ― a popular television show that aired on some television stations, which she later changed to ‘Rachel the PIPER’, and its Hausa version, ‘Rachel Mai Kakaaki’.