A coalition of Niger Delta groups under the aegis of Bayelsa, Rivers, Akwa Ibom and Cross River States Coastal Aborigines on Wednesday warned the Indigenous People of Biafra to leave their communities out in their agitation for Biafra Republic. They said, “We are not Igbo but a completely distinct sets of people in character, culture and all, from the Igbo.” While describing the attacks on their communities as provocative and unacceptable, the organisation said within the last couple of weeks they had witnessed the invasion, harassments, raping and killing of innocent citizens, and disruption of peace and socioeconomic activities in BRAC coastal territory by IPOB activists. A statement iby the General Coordinator of BRAC, Doris Mcdaniels, said the attacks first berthed sometime last year in Oyigbo and the Port Harcourt areas of BRAC territory following the direct instruction of their leader, Nnamdi Kanu through incessant, inflammatory radio broadcast . The statement reads partly, “In the last few days, Omuma, Elele, Omagwa and Abua Odual areas of Rivers State were visited leaving a trail of tears, blood and horrific killings. All the unprovoked violence was not necessary. “These attacks on BRAC territories are provocative, totally unacceptable and highly condemnable. These are likely acts to lead to another angle that will affect cordial relationship and peaceful cohabitation between the coastal minorities and the Igbo. “It should be noted that our traditional fathers, leaders and the generality of our people have severally and at one time or the other distanced our people and territory from IPOB and their Biafra dream State.” BRAC said it was annoying and very offensive for the Igbo to continue to assume their territory as part of their dream nation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com