The Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, has charged the Chief of Defence Staff, General Lucky Irabor, to tackle insurgency in the country. Wike, who described terrorism as one of the biggest existential threats to the country, said he would liaise with the Nigerian Governors Forum to support the release of more funds for the procurement of arms and other equipment for the military to end insurgency in the country. The governor spoke when Irabor and other top military officers paid him a courtesy visit at the Government House, Port Harcourt. The governor said to Irabor, “You have been brought in to see how you can solve the security problems of this country. For us, as a government, we have no other choice but to support the security agencies, particularly, the Army, now that we have terrorist activities in this country.” The governor, in a statement by his media aide, Kelvin Ebiri in Port Harcourt, said no sane government would fold its arms and remain indifferent at this critical moment when the country was grappling with unprecedented security threats orchestrated by non-state actors. “I believe you will make us proud by ensuring you reduce the level of insurgency,” he said. Wike expressed dismay over the alleged misappropriation of $1bn withdrawn from the Excess Crude Account to procure arms and other equipment for the military, wondering how anyone would expect the Armed Forces to fight bandits and terrorists without requisite equipment. He, however, said irrespective of the controversy surrounding the $1bn, he would support the  NGF authorisation of additional money to equip the Armed Forces. The governor disclosed that the Army would soon take delivery of the five gunboats that the Rivers State Government promised to donate to them. He thanked the Nigerian Army for proactively checkmating the activities of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra and not giving any room for any terrorists attack in the state. The CDS commended Wike and the Government of Rivers State for supporting the Army and other security agencies. He appealed to citizens in the state and the Niger Delta to continue to maintain peace in the region for economic activities to thrive. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com