All five international airports in Nigeria will become fully operational to international flights in a couple of weeks, the Federal Government said on Monday. Speaking on behalf of the aviation industry at the COVID-19 Presidential Steering Committee meeting, the Director-General, Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority, Musa Nuhu, said the remaining international airports that had yet to commence international operations were almost set to resume. He said, “On the opening of more airports in Nigeria for international flights, three airports, Kano, Port Harcourt and Enugu were cleared by PTF (Presidential Task Force) to resume international flights. “Kano has resumed, Port Harcourt is almost there, just a few things to close and in the next couple of days, we expect Port Harcourt to be released for the resumption of international flights. “Hopefully in a couple of weeks, Enugu airport will be on the list, making it a total of all five international airports in Nigeria resuming international operations.” He said the Federal Government was also sorting out concerns with Emirates Airlines, as it had engaged the United Arab Emirates and would soon close the differences between Nigeria and the UAE. Nuhu said, “The Presidential Steering Committee deliberated extensively on this matter and the gap has been significantly closed between the position of Nigeria and the UEA. “They’ve actually met some of our requirements and we are just waiting for one confirmation and very shortly, an announcement will be made on the outcome. “Hopefully within the next 24 to 48 hours, we will make an announcement on that.” The NCAA boss expressed hopes that the required level of safety would be upheld at the airports when they all become fully functional to international operations. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com