Popular singer, J. Martins, has taken to his verified Instagram page to compare the tenures of President Goodluck Jonathan and Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). In his post, he noted that freedom of speech has been impeded upon in Nigeria, adding that the corruption level under Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) has risen compared to the past administration. He wrote, “Jonathan! Oh, Jonathan! The freedom of speech we all enjoyed during your stay in office as President of Nigeria is no longer available. Yes, we never valued it then sir. “The corruption your government was accused of then has now graduated with a double PhD in this prestigious government and yet they’ve kept a blind eye thinking that they will all go free? Even if they leave the government today? Nope never!” The Oyoyo singer stressed that nowhere is safe in the country as there is a spike in insecurity everywhere in Nigeria due to the activities of bandits, kidnappers and Boko Haram members. “There is no part of this country that’s not under attack. If it’s not banditry, it’s kidnapping or Boko Haram or killing of security officers. These things were never heard of before, but now, it is our everyday living experience. “Oh, Jonathan! I know you were called all sorts of names, those who betrayed you, some of them are dead while many of them have no shame. They’re still busy jumping from one political party to another. The few others cannot look at you in the face because they failed to learn from Judas who betrayed his master.” He further asked the former President to forgive all those who betrayed him and bless the nation with the hope that Nigeria will be great again. “Please I have a question for you and in as much I recognise that you are not a perfect person sir, you could have also had some mistakes you made in times past; but sir, can you forgive all those who betrayed you? and bless this country from your heart? I know you would say you’re not a pastor, but you’re a father and father’s blessings go a long way in helping his children succeed sir, please and please sir, do this for us all,” the singer wrote.