When I promised in last Sunday’s column to further comment on the advocacy for restructuring, I didn’t expect a riveting development that cuts both ways. Yet, that’s exactly what is presented by the controversy engendered by Ali Isa Pantami’s admitted past support of terrorist organisations such as al Qaeda and the Taliban. The Minister of Communication and Digital Economy said he has long renounced those views. Yet, the question remains whether someone who ever held such convictions is fit for a federal office, especially one that is entrusted with the people’s personal information. Among the powerful voices demanding Pantami’s resignation or dismissal are those of House of Representatives Minority Leader Ndudi Elumelu, civil society organisations and the PUNCH’s editorial board. On Wednesday, Elumelu made a motion for the House to call for Pantami’s resignation or firing, but he was overruled on a technicality by the Speaker of the House, Femi Gbajabiamila. The civil society organisation Concerned Nigerians has called for Pantami’s interrogation by the Department of State Service. And in its editorial on Tuesday, PUNCH questioned whether Pantami even merited the appointment in the first place. “Pantami’s elevation to high public office exposes the ridiculous state Nigeria finds itself,” the Punch declared in an editorial on Tuesday. “All around, mediocrity, incompetence and questionable compromises are evident in the current miasma. First, Buhari was wrong to have appointed Pantami as a minister. It means the President’s yardsticks for such appointments are too pedestrian, perhaps based on extraneous ties apart from competence.” Not surprisingly, Pantami has his apologists. The Daily Trust in particular has been deluged with articles in Pantami’s defense, and they invariably bypassed the issue and attacked the critics. As reported in the Trust of April 15, the group Muslim Rights Concern or MURIC claims Pantami’s critics are people affected by the government’s initiatives “to expose the true identity of criminals like Yahoo Yahoo boys, bandits and kidnappers who use the internet and telephone to extort money from foreigners and families of kidnapped victims.” Daily Trust columnist Fredrick Nwabufo sees the criticism of Pantami as a case of hypocrisy. In a column on April 19, he cited Christian preachers who invoke hellfire against people they disagree with. “I have never heard any Christian described as an extremist — even when some church leaders make galling and inflammatory statements,” Nwabufo writes. It is only in a polemical argument that one would equate the ritual of invoking hellfire with the actual unleashing of hellfire by groups such as Boko Haram, al Qaeda and the Islamic State. It is improbable that the President, Major General (retd) Muhammadu Buhari — being who he is — will dismiss Pantami or force him to resign. Afterall Buhari must have been well acquainted with Pantami before appointing him. In any case, in or out of office, what looms larger is what the controversy may foretell about Nigeria’s future. It all depends on whether Pantami is a Judas in our midst or a potential St. Paul. Paul started out as a fierce prosecutor of early Christians. But after a transformative experience he reversed course. His conversion became the singular most important event in the history of Christianity and indirectly that of Islam. For the advancement of Christianity, Paul did in the theological realm what the Emperor Constantine the Great subsequently did in the political. Might Pantami become — more realistically embody — the St. Paul of Nigeria’s transformation? In comments he has made proclaiming his transformation, one can simultaneously glean the basis for hope and gloom. “Some of the comments I made some years ago that are generating controversies now were based on my understanding of religious issues at the time, and I have changed several positions taken in the past based on new evidence and maturity,” the Daily Trust of April 17 quotes Pantami as saying.“I was young when I made some of the comments; I was in university, some of the comments were made when I was a teenager. I started preaching when I was 13, many scholars and individuals did not understand some of international events and therefore took some positions based on their understanding, some have come to change their positions later.” Like St. Paul who became an evangelist with the same zeal that he prosecuted Christians, Pantami said he has been actively campaigning against terrorism. “For 15 years, I have moved round the country while educating people about the dangers of terrorism,” he was quoted in the Trust story as saying. “I have traveled to Katsina, Gombe, Borno, Kano states and Difa in Niger Republic to preach against terrorism.” That’s reason for hope for Nigeria. But then, on closer examination of the quote, there’s reason to worry. The clause “some have come to change their positions” is rather ominous. Some!!! Who are the rest who haven’t changed and where are they? In the National Assembly? In the presidency? In the judiciary? In the military? Here’s where Pantami as St. Paul can actually be an asset to Nigeria. I cannot link one with the other, but efforts to track down the facilitators of financing of terrorism in Nigeria have begun to yield fruits. According to press reports, several military personnel have been recently arrested for collaborating with Boko Haram and the so-called bandits. And those soldiers exposed several civilian collaborators, 20 of whom have been identified by the Daily Trust. In all likelihood, these are the people that Pantami implicitly indicted as unrepentant. Whether or not Pantami remains in office, he can be an asset in the quest to uproot the terrorist infrastructure in Nigeria. That is, if his renunciation of his past Islamist extremism is genuine. A retired U.S. Army Captain, Bishop Johnson, says there is reason to be wary. “When people have radical ideologies, they don’t change overnight,” The PUNCH quotes Johnson as saying. “They will carry such ideologies into whatever offices they occupy. So people with extremist ideologies should not occupy sensitive positions.” Not coincidentally, the Daily Trust carried a story by the News Agency of Nigeria that makes the case that people do indeed change. The lead reads: “No fewer than eight repentant Niger Delta militants and kidnappers undergoing rehabilitation in the Omega Power Ministries rehabilitation centre, are now pastors in the church, General Overseer, Apostle Chibuzor Chinyere, has said.” The implicit argument is that St. Paul’s persecutor-to-evangelist transformation is actually commonplace. In any case, the Pantami controversy encapsulates the debate over Nigeria’s future. If Pantami remains a Judas in the midst, that portends a bleak future for Nigeria as an entity. If he turns out to be a St. Paul, the prospects for a unified and wholesome Nigeria will be much brighter. The optimists will always count on the latter. More about this next Sunday. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com