The striking Judicial Staff Union of Nigeria has tendered an unreserved apology to the Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, for walking out on a scheduled meeting last week. The apology was contained in a letter to the minister dated April 26, 2021, and signed by JUSUN General Secretary, I. Adetola. The union executive members had left the meeting after waiting for Ngige for about two hours. But the union in its letter urged Ngige to continue with the conciliation geared towards the amicable resolution of the strike. The letter read, “Sir, information has reached our union that the Hon. Minister of Labour and Employment has expressed dissatisfaction in the way JUSUN members left your conference room on Tuesday, 20th April, 2021. “JUSUN wishes to put it on record that many of our members at the conciliation meeting are Muslims and were fasting on the day in question. Having stayed for about two hours without any communication from any quarter of the Ministry, JUSUN members agitating and complaining that they needed to go and break their fast, we had to leave. “All other things put aside, JUSUN commends and appreciates the role of the Ministry of Labour in ensuring peaceful relations at work place, in the case of JUSUN by trying to ensure good environment for justice to all Nigerians. “Therefore, JUSUN appreciates the Honourable Minister and the stakeholders for their commitment towards the resolution of the points in dispute with the judiciary workers for Nigeria to move forward. “Therefore, we sincerely urge the Honourable Minister to continue with the conciliation meetings, which you have commenced. We are all concerned about the good of Nigeria and all annoyance should not be carried too far and be allowed to derail us. “As a result, JUSUN hereby tenders her unreserved apology to you and wherever you are hurt.” A statement on Tuesday by the ministry of labour spokesman, Mr Charles Akpan, said the minister had accepted the apology and a new date for continuation of the conciliation will be communicated shortly to all relevant stakeholders.