Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo says the current challenges facing Nigeria, including security, are only preparing the country for the future. He admitted that the nation is facing security challenges and there is a need to reorganise its security architecture. According to a statement on Tuesday by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Laolu Akande, the Vice President spoke on Monday while receiving the Yakanaje Uke, (in Nasarawa State), Alhaji Ahmed Hassan, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The statement was titled ‘We are re-organising Nigeria’s security architecture – Osinbajo.’ Akande quoted the Vice President as saying, “I believe strongly that the reason why we are experiencing what we are going through today is because  we are being prepared for the future. “A future where we will take into account all of the problems because if we haven’t gone through the problems we are going through now, it will be difficult for us to appreciate the importance of fairness and justice, the importance of giving people a voice and a representation.” Osinbajo said Nigeria was able to overcome the current security challenges confronting the nation and this was why the Federal Government is reorganising the entire security architecture in the country. He added, “There is no question at all that we are facing security challenges, but we are able to overcome them. The role of the leadership is to sit down to think through the problems. “This is a big country, so policing is very difficult. There is a need for us to reorganize our security architecture, which is what is going on now.” He also attributed the current divisions and conflicts in the country to a sense of exclusion. “One of the reasons why we have some of the divisions and conflicts in the parts of the country is because people do not feel included in the management of affairs in their localities,” he said. He commended the traditional ruler for creating an opportunity where the options are available for bringing appeals to a centre of fairness and justice for people from across the country, saying it is a step that should be emulated. Osinbajo added, “I think that this is the way Nigeria should be. We should be able to say that no matter where you are from, if you have the talent, if you work hard, you will succeed wherever you are. You will not be constrained by your political, ethnic or religious affiliations. “Every great society that has succeeded in the world is multiethnic and they succeeded because they brought in talents from all over the place.” He urged traditional rulers to leverage the influence they have over communities to effect positive change for the good of the entire society.