Tears flow as the remains of one of the abducted students of the Greenfield University, Kaduna State, killed by bandits, Miss Dorothy Yohana, were laid to rest on Wednesday in the state capital. On April 20, 2021, the bandits abducted some students of the privately-owned university in Chikun Local Government Area of the state and later demanded N800m ransom. READ ALSO: Oyo hotelier, wife, seven victims settle kidnappers, secure freedom Shortly after the funeral service held at the ECWA Goodnews Church, Narayi High Course, the remains of the slain schoolgirl were interred at the Barnawa GRA Cemetery around 2.30pm. Jesse Jakiri, a 200 level of International Relations of the school who spoke during the funeral service, narrated how he narrowly escaped being taken away alongside other students by the bandits. Jakiri said, “The bandits shot sporadically to the air and went from one room to another in search of students. “It was around 8.30pm, we were in the hostel when we heard gunshots. We came out to see what was happening and saw our lecturer dragging door with the bandits. That was when they shot him on the leg, he left the door and they went inside and shot him in the chest. “ We rushed into our room and lock the door. Meanwhile, there was this door that many students ran into, that was the one the bandits attacked and picked six students. “After the incident, we came out to see what next; that was when we heard that they broke into the girls’ hostel and cart away with all the girls.” Also speaking, Lemuel Adamu, a 200 level student of Cyber Security, who also escaped the attack said him and two other of friends hid inside the wardrobe for almost an hour. He added that the operation lasted for about 45 minutes before the Nigeria military came. Meanwhile, the Father of the slain student, Mr Yohanna Meck said he was bidding his daughter, Dorothy, farewell in pains because he never thought of burying his child. In his tribute during the funeral service, Meck said, “I had a deal with my daughter. We did not conclude it because some people interrupted us and God, who knows the end from the beginning, approved the interruption so that Tirnom can go to His place.” According to him, his temperament did not allow him speak with the kidnappers who spoke with his wife while their daughter was in captivity because he was scared his temperament might anger the bandits to hurt his daughter. Continuing, Neck said: “They spoke with her (Tirnom mother) and asked for N800m but she told them we couldn’t raise such money. Then, they told her that we should go and tell Governor El-Rufai and the school management to give us the money.” On her part, Dorothy’s mother said, “My greatest joy is that I spoke with you when you were in the hands of your captors. I told you to hold on to your God, not knowing that we will not see or talk again in this life.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com