The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has approved the reappointment of Nnenna Akajemeli as National Coordinator and Chief Executive Officer of SERVICOM. According to a statement issued by the Deputy Director (Information), State House, Abiodun Oladunjoye, the Permanent Secretary, State House, Mr. Tijjani Umar, revealed this at the presentation of the Revised State House Service Delivery Charter on Friday, in Abuja. Umar praised Akajemeli on her merited reappointment saying “she is a very hardworking person and who I have worked very closely with and she is very passionate in everything she does.’’ In a similar vein, he urged public servants to prioritise service delivery and ‘‘not to be in a hurry to acquire material benefits.” ‘‘For people who are in a hurry to make money,” he said, “the public service is not about making money…I usually advise colleagues, particularly the younger generation, not to be in a hurry for anything but to work hard and the reward will meet you where you are.’’ As regards the State House Clinic, Umar assured those present at the meeting that the Clinic is fully self-sufficient and service delivery has improved, courtesy of the collective efforts of the medical workers. He announced that ‘‘The new Ear, Nose and Throat wing has been completed and fully functional. State House Clinic was designated as a vaccination centre for COVID-19 and we have finalised arrangements for the clinic to serve as a testing centre for COVID-19.” Umar added that, due to the pandemic, a Special Care Centre was built within 10 weeks and the Clinic now has a fully functional Intensive Care Unit on wheels. Addressing reports about corruption in the Clinic, he disclosed that the management has streamlined its drug procurement and distribution process to ensure accountability. ‘‘Our Clinic may not be perfect but we are on the path to perfection,’’ he said. Akajemeli considers her reappointment as a call to take service delivery in Nigeria to a new level. She told newsmen in Abuja that, ‘‘We are working towards getting an Act to further drive and institutionalise service improvement in the country and we are also working towards a functional new national policy on SERVICOM to enhance trust and connectedness between the government and the citizenry.” Her reappointment took effect from April 10, 2021, and will last till 2025.