The Chief Medical Director of the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Prof. Adetokunbo  Fabamwo, has advised men to show empathy and understanding when their wives has just given birth, and not to abandon the bedroom, thereby leaving the responsibility of nurturing the newborn to their wives alone. The CMD noted that some men are in the habit of abandoning family bedroomonce the wife has a baby. He counselled fathers to support their wives and be involved in looking after the newborn. Fabamwo, a Professor of Obstetrics and Gynaecology at the Lagos State University College of Medicine, stated this during an interview with PUNCH HealthWise, urging men not to leave the responsibility of caring for the  newborn to the woman alone. The gynaecologist said, “Men should engage in looking after the baby. There are men that run off from the bedroom as soon as the woman returns from the hospital because they don’t want to be disturbed if the baby wakes up at night. “I recall that when I was having babies many years ago, I made it a point of duty to sleep in the same room with my wife for us both to endure the suffering together so that I can continue to appreciate her more. Today, I am able to tell my children that when you were waking up every hour disturbing, I was also involved. Men should stop running off the bedroom. It is absolute nonsense. “After all, you are in this business together to raise a family together. So, why should you abandon your wife to her fate?” Fabamwo spoke against the backdrop of a 2011 study published by the American  Psychological Association, which noted that after having a baby, most married couples become less satisfied with their relationships. According to the researchers, after having a baby, 67 percent of couples see their marital satisfaction plummet, stressing that this could have negative mental health consequences for their children. Study author Dr. John Gottman, said, “Post-baby discontent is so common, many people think it’s inevitable and acceptable. But what they probably don’t realise is the negative impact squabbling couples can have on their children. “Two decades of research show that marital conflict is bad for babies, increasing their chances of later developing depression, poor social skills and conduct disorder. “When there is a precipitous decline in relationship satisfaction and an increase in hostility, it transfers to the baby and affects the baby.” Sex after childbirth Commenting on sex after delivery, the LASUTH CMD said a woman naturally wants her body to return to normal before thinking about sex. “If a woman’s body undergoes certain changes in pregnancy, some of those changes are designed to soften the passages where the child will pass through. So, after delivery, it takes a while for those tissues to go back to their normal shape. They are friable and soft. “Again, after delivery, a woman is preoccupied with the care of her baby, especially with the breastfeeding of that baby.So, sex is not the first thing on her mind. She is concerned with getting her body back to normal shape. She is occupied with how she is going to look after the baby,”Fabamwo explained. To continue reading this story and more, click here Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com