The Senate Committee on Aviation as well as its House of Representatives counterpart has described Gombe State airport as unfit for aviation business. Chairman of the senate committee, Senator Smart Adeyemi, gave the description in an interview with journalists on Monday, at the airport. He said the facility did not have the necessary requirements of any standard, listing water, uninterrupted power supply and other basic amenities. Adeyemi alongside his counterpart in the House of Representatives Nnorom Nnaji, agreed that the Federal Government should as a matter of urgency take over its management and funding in the interest of the residents and especially thriving businesses. Adeyemi said, “Considering the strategic location of the airport and its condition, we shall impress it on the Federal Government to take over the facility.” He argued that Gombe was strategically located in the Northeast as its border states were hounded by insurgencies. Adeyemi said that the two committees were in the state to ascertain the state of the airport and make recommendations to the presidency. He described airport as a socioeconomic facility that projects the image of any country. The senator said, “You will all agree with me that the facilities here are obsolete and nothing to smile over.” On his part, Nnaji said the committee was approached by Gombe State governor, Muhammadu Yahaya, to visit the airport, and possibly impress it the presidency to take it over. He applauded the former governor, Senator Danjuma Goje, for the vision of building the airport. Yahaya, who received the delegation, said the state could no longer fund the operations of the airport, noting the state’s position on the federal government’s fund allocation as second to the last. The committees were conducted round the airport facility by deputy governor, Manassah Jatau, who repeated the governor’s plea to the committees’  to ensure that the state airport was taken over by the Federal Government. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com