The Lagos Government has said it will expand the park for trucks plying the Apapa route, as well as complete the seaports in Lekki and Badagry to reduce congestion on the road. The Commissioner for Transportation, Dr Frederick Olasehinde, made known on Tuesday during a ministerial press briefing at the state secretariat as part of the programmes for the second year anniversary of the Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu. Olasehinde reiterated the government’s commitment to solving the perennial gridlock in the Apapa area, as well as in the state, adding that the recently initiated call-up system was to ensure that trucks did not impede free flow of traffic. He said, “We are talking to The Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers, we are talking to the tanker drivers. They are willing to come on the new call-up system. “So in collaboration with the Nigerian Port Authority, we have been able to get a place where truck will park, but we need more. “We have the Bola Ahmed Tinubu truck park, but unfortunately, it wasn’t finished. What Lagos State has done is to add another 19 hectares to this truck park. Once that truck park is developed, it will take 2,500 trucks. “The lasting solution is to have another port. And that is why Lagos State is constructing the Lekki Deep Sea port which is expected to be ready in 18 months with another one in Badagry, as well as the development of rail and water transport in the state. Dismissing reports making the rounds of plans by state government to phase out the yellow commercial buses, popularly called ‘Danfo,’  Oladeinde said, “Lagos State is not phasing out yellow buses but modifying their operations. He said, “The transportation problems, and in particular, public transport of Lagos, requires a sustainable solution. So it is important that we craft together the solutions that will sustain us for the next century.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com