The Voice Nigeria continued this week with another round of exciting auditions that got the judges falling over themselves to attract the best talents to their respective teams. For the fifth episode of ‘blind auditions’, Falz seemed to come with his good luck charm as he rapidly increased the members on his team from two to five. His first contestant for this episode was 20-year-old singer, Oghenekpabor Okoro, aka KPee, who was accompanied by his mother and younger brother. Other talents the ‘Bop Daddy’ rapper attracted to his team were Naomi Mac (who was one of the finalists on the 2011 edition of Nigeria Idols) and Tamara Ebelike. Excited by Ebelike’s performance, Falz told her, “Your performance was so spectacular. You captivated me all the way through and I wanted to hear every single word of what you were singing. I could not help myself. You are a super star.” ‘Not the Girl’ singer, Darey, also increased his brood of talents with the addition of singer, Blessing Ucheonye, who blew judges away with her rendition of Toni Braxton’s ‘Unbreak my Heart’. However, the auditions did not go so well for some of the contestants as they were not able to get the judges to ‘turn’ their seats for them and ‘bid’ for them to join their teams. A football coach and singer, Paul Mogbolu; a ‘practising’ medical doctor and singer, Alade Kolade; and Ifeoma Utomi, were unable to make it to the next stage of the show and would perhaps have to try their luck next time. As it stands, the coaches need one contestant each on their teams to make up the required number of six. The next stage of the show is the ‘knockout’ which would see some of the contestants leaving the show if they fail to impress. As is the usual practice of the show’s sponsors, there were motivational quotes in strategic places in the studio. A message from Baba Ijebu read, “You can change your story. It’s time to be a champion.” On her part, the Group Head, Corporate Communications, First Bank, Folake Ani-Mumuney, noted that the bank was committed to tapping into the vast potentials in the entertainment industry and helping them to flourish. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com