SOME farmers in Ogoni land, Rivers State, have raised the alarm over the invasion of their farmlands by herdsmen, saying they (herdsmen) allowed their livestock to feed on their crops. The farmers; all women, said they had suffered huge losses due to the destruction of their farmlands, pointing out that they were unable to access their farms for fear of being attacked. The women, who spoke during a sensitisation programme on security and defence, organised by Lokiaka Community Development Centre in Port Harcourt lamented that they now find it difficult to feed their families as their source of livelihood was under threat. Some of the affected women are Mary Amanikpo, a native of Lueku community in Nyo-Khana, Mercy Glory of Sogho community, Khana, and Yeye Nkani, a native of Eleme, all from Ogoni. Glory said, “Since the herdsmen came into my community last year, they have been destroying our cassava to the extent that we cannot bear it again. “Some time ago, my son approached them and pursued them out from the farmland, but they threatened him with their daggers and machetes. He narrowly escaped being killed. “We went to the community, reported to the youth leader and went back to the farm the following day. I personally asked one of the herdsmen what happened to my cassava that they have destroyed and that I don’t have anything to harvest for food or to sell for my children’s upkeep. “He (herdsman) told me that my community chief had collected money from them and they will stay till their money is exhausted.” She therefore urged the government “to send all these herdsmen away from our land and empower our women to return back to active farming.” Earlier, the Executive Director of Lokiaka, Martha Agbani, explained that the meeting was to sensitise them on how to be vigilant and security conscious while on their farms. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com