Dennis Naku, Port Harcourt A nine-year-old boy, who was allegedly sodomised by a 29-year-old apprentice, Raphael Ekene, has disagreed with his mother on the fate of the suspect, who is currently in police custody. Ekene was nabbed for allegedly sodomising the boy and defiling his four-year-old sister at Eliegbolo in the Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of Rivers State. The suspect was also accused of defiling another minor aged seven on the same day before he was caught by residents and handed over to the police at the Rumuokoro Division. While the boy is insisting that the suspect should face the full weight of the law, his mother says she has forgiven Ekene and is not interested in his prosecution. Ekene was said to have committed the crime in an uncompleted building near a church, where the mother of the siblings worship, even as the woman said worshippers broke the news to her. The mother of the siblings, Ruth John, told journalists in Port Harcourt that the suspect, who hails from Etche in Rivers State, was her former neighbour. She explained, “Last Sunday, I didn’t go to church; I received a call from the church after service that I should come. “As I got to the church, they told me that one boy took my son into an uncompleted building and did something to him. It was someone, who caught the suspect in the act, who alerted other people. “They caught him and he admitted doing it. He didn’t lie. My son had gone to buy sachet water when Ekene called him to that place .The suspect was my neighbour before.” She, however, said she was not interested in the suspect’s prosecution, because his family had been begging for forgiveness “So, I don’t want them (the police) to take the man to court. They should set him free. I have left it for God. I was afraid that he could have infected my daughter with HIV. When the result of the test that was conducted in the hospital came out yesterday (Tuesday), they said my daughter tested negative for HIV,” she said. But the boy disagreed with his mother’s position, saying he wanted justice to be served. He stated that it was not the first time that Raphael had sodomised him and even threatened to kill him if he told anyone about what was happening between them. When contacted, the spokesman for the state police command, Nnamdi Omoni, could not immediately confirm the incident, saying he was out of Port Harcourt on a special assignment, but promised to call back. He had not done so as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com