Rite Foods Limited, a Nigerian foods and beverages company said it sponsored the cleanup of the Alpha beach, in Lekki, Lagos, where 1,640kg and 127.2kg of solid and recyclable waste were cleared. A statement titled ‘Rite Foods supports environmental initiative, rid Lagos of 1,767.2kg of waste’ said it was part of its efforts at preserving the environment and in support of the Lagos State Government Cleaner-Lagos initiative. It stated that the cleanup exercise was in collaboration with the Sterling One Foundation and Giving Beach Clean-up. Employees of Rites Foods Limited were joined by 116 volunteers and locals in the community to pick up and remove plastics, solid waste and other unwanted materials from the beach. The solid waste recovered totalled 1,640kg, while polyethylene terephthalate recyclables weighed 119 kg, carton 3.0kg, nylon1.0kg and returnable glass bottle 4.2kg. The cleanup was part of the company’s contribution to a cleaner environment and the preservation of one of Lagos beaches known as Alpha beach, which serves as a tourist location in Lagos State, where fun seekers go to for relaxation, picnics, parties and other forms of social engagements. Speaking on the exercise, the Managing Director, Rite Foods Limited, Mr Seleem Adegunwa, said that the company was committed to a cleaner and healthier environment, and would continue to contribute to environmental preservation to make the society habitable, especially in the communities and public spaces. He stated that the project was to ensure that the solid and packaging wastes did not end up in the ocean from the beach, thereby constituting hazards to aquatic lives   and for people that make use of the ocean for other activities. According to him, the recyclable waste could be turned into other useful products and helps create more jobs and also keep the environment clean. He said, “Food and beverage packaging waste like the PET bottles end up in the wrong places, in our beaches, oceans and waterways or litter the communities where we work and live. “We have a responsibility to protect the environment hence we have gathered today to clear all sorts of waste from the beach.” The Rite Foods boss therefore urged Nigerians to dispose and separate their waste properly in order to keep Lagos healthier for habitation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com