The Ultimate Smartphone Entertainment Experience Infinix today unveiled the all-new Hot 10T Series the highly anticipated gaming and entertainment smartphone addition to the Hot 10 portfolio. The Infinix Hot 10T sets a new standard for power, innovation and style by combining sophisticated processing technologies with long-lasting battery performance, a triple camera with Super Nightscape imaging and an ultra-smooth display, encased in a stunning design inspired by nature. The Hot 10T Series features Infinix’s powerful Dar-link optimization engine software, which improves graphic display and touchscreen sensitivity with self-learning AI algorithm capabilities that minimize lag time. With more than 2.7 billion mobile gamers expected by 2023, the Hot 10T smartphone is equipped with a MediaTek Helio G70 chipset to meet the increasing demand for enhanced gaming experiences. “When designing the Hot 10T Series, our goal was to set standards for mobile entertainment,” said [Manfred Hong, Senior Product Director] of Infinix. “Every aspect of the Hot 10T Series has been carefully crafted to deliver the ultimate user experience – from MediaTek’s excellent Helio G70 chipset processing power, to the smooth and highly responsive display and optimized battery for non-stop, undisrupted viewing and playing.” Taking innovation one step further The Hot 10T Series balances innovative and stunning design with excellent features and functionality to deliver the best visual experience for consumers at an affordable price: Crisp 48MP triple camera quality  The Hot 10T features an AI portrait enhancing 8MP front camera to capture sharp images that reflect the results of a professional camera. This camera is the first-ever in the HOT series to offer eye-tracking autofocus, auto-blur videos and face beautification, empowering users to capture the perfect shot. The Hot 10T also features a nightscape 48MP rear HD camera that allows users to take impressive images and videos in both day and night. The 240FPS slow-motion shooting also helps users capture smooth movements for the perfect action shot. The ultimate smartphone entertainment experience with MediaTek’s Helio G70 The Hot 10T is the first in its series to be equipped with MediaTek’s Helio G70 chipset to provide an outstanding performance for avid mobile gamers. The octa-core CPU features two powerful Arm Cortex-A75 CPUs operating up to 2GHz and six Cortex-A55 processors operating up to 1.8GHz, interlinked by a large L3 cache for improved performance. Play all day with a long-lasting battery To provide users with a non-stop gaming experience, the Hot 10T comes equipped with a battery capacity of 5000mAh. Based on testing from the Infinix data lab, the Hot 10T supports 55 days on standby, 170 hours of music playback, 15.0 hours of continuous gaming or 76 hours of calls on a full charge. The built-in Safe-Charge technology ensures that the power is automatically turned off once the device is fully charged to avoid overheating and wasting energy, while the Power Marathon technology contributes an extra 25% power when the battery runs low – that’s 3.5 hours of additional call time for users. Availability The Infinix HOT 10 will be available on May 5th across all authorized retail stores in Nigeria after the local launch.  The 128 GB + 8 GB version retails for ₦72,000.00 and the 64 GB + 4 GB version retails for ₦65,400.00. Upon the launch, the device will also be available on Xpark @ https://ng.xpark.com For more information, visit Infinix’s official website at www.Infinixmobility.com/ng or social media pages @Infinixnigeria. For more information on the newly launched device, visit Infinix official website at www.Infinixmobility.com/ng or visit Infinix on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram at @Infinixnigeria. You can also join their community of young and vibrant fans on XClub via the app on your Infinix device or click on this link to download the app if you’re a non Infinix user. Hot 10T Device Specifications About Infinix: Infinix Mobile is an emerging smartphone brand that designs, manufactures and markets an expanding portfolio of mobile devices worldwide under the Infinix brand which was founded in 2013. Targeting Generation Z, Infinix focuses on developing cutting-edge technology embodied in meticulously designed mobile devices that offer refined style, power and performance. Infinix devices are trendy & attainable with the end-user at the forefront of every step forward. With “THE FUTURE IS NOW” as its brand essence, Infinix aims to empower today’s youth to stand out from the crowd and show the world who they are & what they stand for. The company’s portfolio of products is sold in more than 40 countries around the world, covering Africa, Latin America, the Middle East, Southeast Asia, and South Asia. Expanding at a phenomenal rate, Infinix grew an unprecedented 160% during 2018-2020 and has huge plans to continue creating flagship-level devices offering striking designs and strong value propositions. For more information, please visit:http://www.infinixmobility.com/