The late Ada Jesus, popularly known for her controversial video on Anambra Pastor Odumeje ― the founder of Mountain of Holy Ghost Intervention and Deliverance Ministry ― and Rita Edochie, was a thriving comedienne with a bustling YouTube and Instagram Vlog, till her illness, which began last December, and her eventual death on Wednesday. Her YouTube page boasts of over eight thousand subscribers, with views standing at 922,000 and 200 videos ranging from comedy skits, rants, and her commentary on situations delivered in spitfire Igbo and Pidgin English.
Her Instagram account, @adajesuscomedy, has also amassed about 34,000 followers in the past three years of her career. Here are the top five skits that placed the comedienne on the radar. My Governor’s speech on state palliative  In a reminisce of the aftermath of the 2020 #EndSARS protests, Ada Jesus features in this Wahala TV skit as the “Head of Police Force” where a governor dishes out deception on national TV as regards the situation of the state government expenditure. The video has gathered about 95,000 views on Instagram. Welcome to Imo State  In the three-minute-long video, she condemns Governor Hope Uzodinma for the deplorable state of roads in Imo state. She employs the service of a motorcyclist who tried to find his way in the mud but ends up dropping her on the floor in her white dress. The video currently has about 5,000 views on Instagram and 48,000 views on YouTube. I fear my neighbour  Tired of living, Ada, in this skit, which has amassed 68,000 views on her Instagram and 5,300 views on YouTube, takes to a tree in her backyard to end her life. In the process, she sights her pawpaw tree with some fruits missing and abandons her mission to confront her neighbour. The table legs don scatter  In this video, which has gathered about 7,500 views on Instagram, Ada Jesus explains the rocky relationship with her husband with a hilarious diss-laced delivery of a news report in this skit. In response, a fan @janedaneofficail, hilariously asked her to repair her marriage. “As you don break the table leg, biko repair am.” On the other hand @Nwa_chi_mere did not find the skit funny as he asked her to “behave matured and stop disgracing yourself and family in the name of comedy.” Imo state please leave me alone  In this skit, Ada Jesus is seen mimicking newscasters in Imo state. The video was in Igbo Language and has amassed over 84,000 views on Instagram. Fear village people  The video, which currently has over 91,000 views on Instagram, depicts a village setting where people are quick to gossip and ask questions just to know how good or bad you are faring. Ada Jesus  Her last skit, which has garnered over 200,000 views since posted on Instagram in January, is replete with comments lamenting the death of the upcoming star and prayers that her soul rests in peace. As earlier reported by The PUNCH, the mother of one died on Wednesday, after battling a kidney disease that metamorphosed into a stroke. She is survived by her husband and child.