BARELY 24 hours after the Police Zonal Headquarters in Ukpo, Anambra State, was attacked, a Divisional Police Station in Adani, Uzo-Uwani Local Government Area of Enugu State has reportedly been attacked by gunmen. The incident was said to have occurred in the early hours of Wednesday. The PUNCH gathered that two policemen on duty were killed, while several others sustained injuries during the attack. Like the other attacks on police stations in recent time, facilities in the Enugu police station were completely razed. Community sources told our correspondent that the attack on the police station started at about 2.30am and lasted till about 3.30 am. Speaking on the incident, the state police command confirmed the killing of two of its officers during the attack. The state Police Commissioner, Mohammed Aliyu, after his on-the-spot assessment visit of the station, ordered immediate deployment of the command’s operational and intelligence assets to identify and apprehend the gunmen. Describing the attack as barbaric and unacceptable, Aliyu said, “The attack on the station is unprovoked.” Earlier, the Command spokesman, Daniel Ndukwe, in statement, appealed to members of the public for information to apprehend the assailants. The statement partly read, “The Commissioner of Police, Enugu State Command, Mohammed Ndatsu Aliyu, has ordered the immediate deployment of the Command’s operational and intelligence assets to identify and apprehend the yet to be identified gunmen, who without warrant and provocation, violently attacked and set ablaze Adani Police Station today, April 21, 2021 at about 2.30am.” Meanwhile, reconnaissance aircraft of the Nigerian Air Force was seen hovering around the state in the early hours of Wednesday. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com