The recent attacks on villages in the Umuogodo-Akpu Ngbo community, Ohaukwu Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, which claimed 17 lives and led to the destruction of many houses, have altered the peace in the area and changed the way the people live; EDWARD NNACHI writes On Monday, April 12, 2021, suspected Fulani herdsmen invaded Otuebu and Obodo Ocha villages in the Umuogodo-Akpu Ngbo community, Ohaukwu Local Government Area of Ebonyi State. The community witnessed the killing of over 17 persons and destruction and burning down of over 70 houses by the invaders. The attackers also killed many domestic animals belonging to residents of the community during the invasion, which according to villagers, started around 4.30am. Our correspondent, who visited the community in the evening of the attack, counted about 10 dead bodies at both Otuebu and Obodo Ocha villages on various farm tracks. On March 10, 2020, barely 11 months before the latest invasion, suspected gunmen in military uniform had attacked Ndiagu Orie, Ndiagu Uguru, Ndiagu Obasi, Amakpu Ishiagu and other villages in the same Umuogodo-Akpu Ngbo community, which left a bloody experience in the consciousness of the people. Umuogodo-Akpu Ngbo is about 55 kilometres away from Abakaliki, the state capital. Traversing the villages of the agrarian community is a herculean task due to the deplorable roads. Umuogodo-Akpu Ngbo is a border community sharing boundaries with the Agila people of the Ado Local Government Area of Benue State. In the March 2020 attack, no fewer than 10 persons were killed. Thirteen-year-old Junior Secondary School II pupil of Otokoro High School, Oriajah village, in Umuogodo Akpu-Ngbo community, Miss Confidence Ali, was one of the huge losers of the invasion. Her father, Mr Fidelis Ali; mother, Helen Ali; stepmother and a visitor were among the 10 persons killed on March 10, 2020, during the attack that lasted over two hours. Confidence said, “My father, mother, stepmother and our visitor were killed by people suspected to have come from the Agila community in Ado Local Government Area of Benue State on March 10, 2020, around 10am. I ran away when they were approaching our house. If not for that, they would have killed me too. “This situation has thrown me into a deep difficulty. I have no one to cater for my education. I feel sad about the death of my parents.” Confidence, who painted a gloomy picture of life in the area, noted that she feared that something sinister might happen in the community if concrete steps were not taken to avert it. Regarding the latest attack, community sources said the invaders swooped on the home of a traditional bone setter, one Mr Emmanuel, at Obodo Ocha village, killed him and seven others, who were being treated for bone fracture. Aside the 17 persons that were reportedly killed in the gruesome attack, our correspondent learnt that the invasion led to the displacement of over 4,000 residents of the area. Recall that the attack took place hours after the South-East governors established the Ebubeagu, an outfit meant to fight insecurity in the zone. A youth leader in the area and an indigene of Obodo Ocha, Mr Egbuu Sunday, said the attackers were suspected herdsmen and came from Benue State. Sunday said, “I am 37 years old and I’m a farmer. I am one of the youth leaders here. “When they (attackers) invaded the village, they started burning our houses and killing people. They killed over 17 persons, while five persons are still missing. We have over 70 houses there at Otuebu that they burnt.” On a visit to the area, our correspondent saw many villagers packing their property and leaving the community in droves to neighbouring communities for fear of their lives. Some natives, who mustered courage to speak to The PUNCH, said they always run away whenever they see vehicles approaching, pointing out that the fear of uncertainty was currently pervading the community. The villagers said they were living in fear that they might be attacked again. A 34-year-old farmer, Angela said, “Since the attack, inhabitants of the two villages have been living their lives in fear and apprehension. Each time we see a vehicle approaching, we run away. Even neighbouring villagers, who were not affected, are equally living in fear of the unknown. “You could see how lonely the villages were when you were coming, because people have deserted the villages. We don’t know if the herdsmen will come again.” Another survivor, Mr James Sunday, explained that residents of the affected villages were still afraid of returning home for fear of being victims of another attack. He said, “People are still scared of coming back home, because there is no presence of security operatives around the villages that were badly destroyed. There is nobody here to defend us if they attack us again. The police and military men left that same day that we were attacked by the herdsmen. “We are hungry; our houses, our yam barns and where we stored our food were all burnt when we were attacked. Those, who are privileged to have people that reside in different cities, came and took their loved ones out of the villages for safety reasons.” But the Ebonyi State Government, on Monday, said only four persons were killed in the attack. The Commissioner for Internal Security and Border Peace, Chief Stanley Okoro-Emegha, stated, “The villagers said it was the Agila people (who attacked them), but for now, nobody can say where the attackers came from. “So far, four people have been confirmed dead. The Army said one person died, but my men on the ground in the area, who are in the field, said three other corpses were seen apart from the one confirmed by the Army.” The Deputy Governor of the state, Dr Kelechi Igwe, however, said the attack on the people of Umuogudu Akpu-Ngbo community was not carried out by Fulani herdsmen. This was contained in a statement issued by the Press Secretary to the Deputy Governor, Mr Monday Uzor, on Monday in Abakaliki. He stated, “The Ebonyi State Government has received with dismay (report of) violent attack on the people of Umuogudu Akpu-Ngbo community in the Ohaukwu Local Government Area of the state in the early hours of Monday. “The general public is hereby informed that preliminary investigations have indicated as follows: “One, that the attack was not carried out by Fulani herdsmen as being speculated in different quarters. “Two, that the government of Ebonyi State is in touch with the leadership of the Fulani herdsmen (Miyetti Allah), who denied involvement in the attack. “Three, that the leaders of the Fulani herdsmen have assured the government and people of Ebonyi State that they will not on any account perpetrate an attack on any part of the state. “Four, that the recent attack on Ngbo is linked to the age-long crisis between the community and their Agila neighbours of Benue State.” Also, governor David Umahi, absolved the Fulani herdsmen of the attack on Umuogodo-Akpu Ngbo community. Governor Umahi accused the people of Agila in Benue State of being responsible for the recent attack, in the area. The Governor disclosed this on Tuesday, while briefing journalists after an enlarged security council meeting held at the Executive Chambers of the Old Government House, Abakaliki.
However, to cushion the effects of the attacks on the poor natives, Umahi approved the sum of N40,000,000.00 to the community, Egedegede, Obeagu and Amuzu communities in the Ishielu Local Government Area of the state.
While expressing sadness over the attack, he observed that the precarious situation in the country called for internal protection against external aggression. He said, “I still maintain that the people of Agila in Benue State, not the Fulani herdsmen, were responsible for the recent attacks on Umuogodo-Akpu Ngbo people. Umahi added, “I felt so sad when I heard of this. My spirit went down so low, how life no longer means much in our country again. It is so sad that people will be sleeping in their houses and others will come and kill them for what they know nothing about.
“Our security outfit is already in place. I directed a lot of them to be posted to this place, all that is remaining in Ebubeagu is for us to launch it at the zonal level and to have our security gadgets there.
“Everybody will be protected when we make up our minds to protect ourselves. I have done everything possible for Agila people to live peacefully with us even when I was the deputy governor. Every time they will be the one to attack us.
“I maintain that the government will not fold its hands and watch the citizens being killed wantonly by bandits.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com