Produced in Nigeria, a Nigerian technology company specialising in e-commerce, retail, wholesale and bargain hunting, has been launched in the country. The Founder, Bukky Ojo, described the platform as one that provided consumer-to-consumer, business-to-consumer and business-to-business sales services via online marketplace portals, as well as electronic payment services, shopping, search engines and directories. According to her, the e-commerce platform is a forum where sellers of Nigerian made products, services and skilled workers can network with buyers. She said it was also an online marketplace for Nigerians in the diaspora to buy Nigerian made products and services for their families and friends in Nigeria. Ojo, who conceptualised the platform in September 2017 while doing a documentary on Nigeria traditions and culture, said the decision to form the platform was informed by the need to encourage Nigerian-made products and to change the narrative of petty trading. She added that the e-commerce would change the narrative from retailing to “e-tailing”. She said, “PIN has a wide selection of products and goods from verified suppliers who own their stores, wide selection of professional and skilled workers and a wide selection of digital services. “We are a platform that encourages skilled workers. People like plumbers, electricians, technicians and engineers. We also provide a space for all types of digital services. We want to help Nigerians express themselves in their skills.” She also noted that PIN allowed offering of different products and services by one single person. “Most Nigerians are jacks of all trade and PIN is a place where one person who has acquired many skills can express themselves in different facets of what they do. “Just like Amazon did for North America and Alibaba did in Asia, PIN is poised to do the same in Nigeria and Africa as a whole. With this platform, Nigeria can retain its title as the giant of Africa.” She called for sellers of Nigerian produced goods, professionals and artisans to register on the platform, and for Nigerians to patronise the offered products, services and skills. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com