The Peoples Democratic Party has again demanded the sack of the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Mr Isa Pantami, by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), over his sympathy for terrorists. This was contained in a statement titled, ‘Pantami: PDP backs Elumelu, Minority Reps …vilifies APC House Leadership for protecting terrorism apologist, signed by the National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, in Abuja, on Saturday. The opposition party expressed support for calls by the Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Ndudi Elumelu, for the resignation of Pantami, stating that the lawmaker’s call reflects the position of the majority of Nigerians. The PDP condemned the statement issued by the leadership of the All Progressives Congress in the House in which the ruling party attempted to create a parliamentary cover for the minister, “despite his being exposed as an apologist of terrorist groups, including Al-Qaeda and Taliban.” The statement read in part, “The PDP therefore urges President Muhammadu Buhari to reassure the nation by heeding the voice of Nigerians, as contained in the statement by the minority leader, and relieve Isa Pantami of his position as his continued stay in office poses a grave threat to our national security. The manifest desperation in the statement, particularly in resorting to personal attacks on the minority leader as well as the spokesman of the minority caucus, Francis Agbo, further exposes a huge conspiracy by certain individuals working in tandem with terrorism apologists to frustrate genuine efforts to curb acts of terrorism in our country.” An official response was still being awaited from the APC as of the time of filing the report but the Chairman, Buhari Media Organisation, Niyi Akisiju, in his reaction, said, “The PDP should be ashamed of itself. It is shameful that the PDP has yet to come to terms with the fact that Nigerians no longer take their statements seriously. What Nigeria requires at this time is the support of all well-meaning citizens to deal with our common challenges especially in the area of security.” Buhari can no longer excuse his regime of ‘fulanisation’ agenda – President’s ex-associate An estranged associate of Buhari, Dr Umar Ardo, has said it will be difficult, if not impossible, to extricate the regime of the President from “charges of extremism, Islamisation” and “fulanisation,” following the position of the government to support the embattled minister despite his pro-Taliban and Jihadi-Salafi ideology. Ardo, in a statement titled, “Pantami and Buhari: Between faith and fame,’ said, “Henceforth, it will be difficult if not impossible to extricate the government of charges of extremism, Islamisation, fulanisation, etc. It will also not help the cause of the current war against terrorism, insurgency and banditry, all because of the allure of a ministerial seat and the desire to protect that seat! “I don’t, with all respect, agree with the position of the Federal Government in retaining Sheikh Isa Pantami as a cabinet minister.” Also, the Transition Monitoring Group has described Pantami as a “jihadist” who “lacks integrity and has been unapologetic about it.” The Chairperson, TMG, Dr Abiola Akiyode-Afolabi, said, “The Minister is a jihadist, lacks integrity and has been unapologetic about it. It’s been long that we have been told that the extremists we are fighting are in our government and that is why the war against insurgency will never work because they are in government. Meanwhile, telecommunications companies have called on the Presidency to investigate and deal with ICT firms allegedly sponsoring campaigns against the embattled minister. Some top officials of mobile network companies said on Saturday that although they were unaware of the firms, the government was free to investigate the companies allegedly involved in the act. The Presidency had recently claimed that the anti-Pantami campaign was being sponsored by some ICT companies, who stood to lose financially through lower prices and greater consumer protections that the minister had been working on. “We saw that statement from the Presidency and would not want to be dragged into that saga. However, the Presidency is free to investigate and deal with the culpable firms,” an official with a major telecoms company said. The media aide to the minister, Uwa Suleiman, could not be reached as she did not respond to calls nor reply a text message on enquiries about the concerns around her boss. However, Suleiman had earlier argued that Pantami had been fighting against terrorism and wondered why he should be linked to terrorists. campaign of calumny. The Caretaker Chairman of the APC in the state, Nitte Amangal, in a statement available by the caretaker Publicity Secretary of the party, Sabo Ibrahim, said the bad narratives against the minister were being pushed by enemies of progress and the nation. Amangal, however, urged the minister not to be deterred and commend the Presidency for standing by him. But a human rights lawyer, Mr Malachy Ugwumadu, said, the views and sentiments expressed by Nigerians were inconsequential as long as Pantami enjoyed Buhari’s endorsement. A constitutional lawyer and Head (Legal Unit), Human Rights Defenders of Nigeria, Sampson Ekigbo, said an individual holding such sentiments for terrorist organisations should not have scaled through the scrutiny of the National Assembly and relevant security agencies. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com