The Disciplinary Committee of the Nigeria Football Federation has overturned the decision of the management of the Nigeria National League in the match-day four clash between Osun United and Vandrezzer FC. Fans of home team Osun United were seen in videos harassing the visiting Vandrezzer players and camera operators, which led to the NNL, through its Chief Operating Officer, Emmanuel Adesanya, on March 8, declaring the match in Osogbo null and void, adding that it must be replayed at a neutral venue, with the home team bearing the costs. Osun United were also mandated to bear the cost of the damaged Vandrezzer camera. The NFF Disciplinary committee in its decision on cases brought before it on April 21, however, overturned the NNL decision to have the match replayed. The decision read in part, “The result of the match played on March 6, between Osun United FC and Vandrezzer FC hereby stands, as the only ground under which the NFF Disciplinary Committee could have ordered for a replay is if the match was discontinued. However, the match was concluded, as stated by the referee and match commissioner in their reports. “Osun United is hereby ordered to pay the sum of N300,000 for breaching of COVID-19 protocol on or before their next match and an additional sum of N200,000 as a penalty for not complying with the above NNL decision as at when directed. “Osun United is hereby ordered to pay the sum of N50,000 only to Vandrezzer FC as general damages for vandalising their cameras and cables. In another decision, the NFF Disciplinary Committee dismissed all cases of COVID-19 breach against Bendel Insurance by Remo Stars in a match played on March 10, in Benin. The committee stated that there was no evidence to substantiate any breach of COVID-19 protocols by Bendel Insurance, as well as unknown personnel gaining access to the entrance of Remo Stars FC’s dressing room to harass and intimidate their officials and players. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com