A popular Nigerian comedienne, Mercy Cynthia Ginikachukwu, fondly referred to as Ada Jesus, is dead. The comedienne died two days after celebrating her birthday. The young lady had been battling kidney disease that left her incapacitated before her death. Her death was announced by one Harrison Gwamnishu, who had been taking care of the ailing comedienne. Gwamnishu led a group of Nigerians that took the comedienne to the hospital for medical treatment. In a post via his Instagram handle, the young man wrote, “Thank you, everyone. Rest in Power Mercy Nmesoma Nnadi @adajesuscomedy”. Moreso, during an exclusive chat with The Punch Gwamnishu said that the comedienne died this morning at 7:15 am. He said, “Yes, she is dead. She died this morning at about 7:15 am I was at the hospital at the time she died. Yesterday evening she was strong, happy and laughing with us. She celebrated her birthday two days ago. We bought cake and drinks for her and she was happy. Everybody was happy with her as well. Yesterday evening she was still happy and when I was about to leave the hospital she did not want me to go but I had to lie to her that I was going to call the doctor, and then I left the hospital. At about 11 pm, her husband called me that they wanted to give her an injection and it cost N50,000 but they did not have the money so I had to transfer it to them. “After she received the injection, they said that her breathing was very bad, I had to leave where I was at about 12:15 am to rush down to the hospital. At the time the doctors gave her oxygen to ensure that she was breathing fine. At about 1:30 am they moved her to the intensive care unit ward where they kept her. It was this morning that they confirmed that she had died.” Before her death, the comedienne had made several allegations against several people, including veteran actress, Rita Edochie and Anambra-based prophet, Chukwuemeka Odumejeje. She claimed that Anambra-based prophet, Chukwuemeka Odumejeje, connived with Rita Edochie to stage fake miracles. Ada Jesus further alleged that she helps Edochie get men to sleep with her. Due to these allegations, Edochie and Odumejeje vowed never to forgive the skit maker for her utterances. Making a U-turn, the veteran actress, Rita Edochie, stated that she has forgiven Ada Jesus ‘from her heart of heart.’ The actress then went on to warn those who criticise men of God. Moreso, Odumejeje also forgave the young lady. It was reported that the prophet also gifted her parents N1m for her treatment. Ever since her death was announced, her fans have taken to several social media platforms to mourn. Thronging to her Instagram account, her fans took to the comment section of her last post to express their grief. An Instagram user Paschalin5450 wrote, “At last, you defeated your pains. Rest in power dear. We understand all about your hustle though it didn’t end well for you but you are one of many talents.” Another Instagram user Donqachi wrote in her comment section, “Rest peace gentle soul…it’s well.” While lavivzikaentertainment wrote, “I want to believe this isn’t true.”