Nigerians on social media on Monday condemned the proposed hike in the tuition of students of Kaduna State University. Though the university management has yet to announce the new tuition, there are reports that the tuition for some non-indigenes in the state university has been increased to N500,000. The fee hike proposal obtained by our correspondent showed that medical students of the university are worst hit by the increment. The document also showed that the tuition for Kano State indigenes will also be increased. Our correspondent also gathered that students of the Faculties of Arts, Education, Science, Social Management and Science may pay up to N200,000. While Pharmacy and Applied Health Sciences would be expected to pay about N300,000. “Management wishes to state that though tuition fees would be reviewed upward with specific fees on each course but yet to be announced. The figures being spread on social media are false,” the university’s Public Relations Officer, Adamu Nuhu Bargo, said in a press statement on KASU’s website. Reacting, Abdul-Aziz Abubakar, said, “Elrufai sacked 25,000 teachers, Elrufai sacked 3,000 workers, Elrufai enforced levy on every adult residing in Kaduna, Elrufai can’t pay minimum wage, Elrufai hikes Kaduna state university tuition fee to N150, 000, and you still don’t knw why Kaduna became bandits headquarters?” “What the Kaduna State University is saying, in essence, is that non-indigenes should go home. Those that have ears should listen,” @iam_BeckyJames added. @DolapoOsun1414 complained that “Nobody is even saying anything, not even the supposed representatives of the masses. El-Rufai is really enjoying this APC privilege.” “The story coming out from Kaduna State University is worrisome and very alarming, how do we expect children of common men to enroll their children into public universities when the tuition fee is as equal as that of private universities?” Isah Miqdad. Also, the Kaduna State Council of Imams and Ulama urged the state government and the management of KASU to consider the hardship currently being faced by parents and shelve the plan. “It’s difficult to comprehend any logic behind the intended increment in the present circumstances, bearing in mind that most parents are yet to recover from the effects of the lockdown. “Apart from the COVID-19 pandemic, the effect of Kaduna Urban Renewal Project and the mass sack of workers had placed an additional burden on parents. “Any increment in the fees at this crucial time will only force students to drop out of school and consequently aid criminality and disorderliness in the state. “Particularly now that the state is being faced with series of insecurity challenges.”