Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, on Thursday night, lambasted preachers making negative prophecies about Nigeria. He urged such clerics to rather emulate the Founder and General Superintendent of the Deeper Christian Life Ministry, Pastor William Kumuyi, in his optimism that Nigeria will fly again, despite the multifarious challenges confronting the nation at the moment. The presidential spokesman made this known in a piece titled, ‘Nigeria Will Fly Again: We Can Believe Kumuyi’. He wrote, “To Kumuyi and the state of the nation. Nigeria can fly again. There will be a turnaround. But that’s not what we hear from most preachers today. They talk of doomsday, encourage their members to hate the country and its leadership, give negative prophecies that keep falling flat on their faces, because “God is still interested in Nigeria,” as Pastor Kumuyi said. “Do those other preachers read copies of the Holy Bible different from the one Kumuyi reads? I wonder. Why are they then full of bile and ill will against their country and the leadership? Was it because the sluice gate got closed? Did money stop flowing to them unlike in the recent past? Why do they exhibit such hatred, and make outlandish claims in the name of God? Why don’t they preach hope, but rather provoke their members to hate? There are questions to answer on the Last Day. Judgment will truly begin from the household of God. “Stop hate, killing, use of divisive utterances, Kumuyi said. You hear incendiary utterances all over the place today. On radio, television, social media, and even from the pulpit. All these eventually boil over, and lead to wanton killings.” “If only we can listen to people like Kumuyi, then we will have a better country,” Adesina concluded. Adesina’s piece was released at a time when the Catholic Priest and Spiritual Director of Adoration Ministry, Enugu, Fr Ejike Mbaka, said God asked him to withdraw his support for the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and to prophesy against him. The fiery priest had prophesied that Buhari would defeat ex-President Goodluck Jonathan and become President in 2015 and continued to support him at various times. But Mbaka made a U-turn against the Buhari government, saying it had failed to protect lives in the country, describing the situation as devastating.