drtayooke@gmail.com The prosecution and conviction in the USA last week, April 21, 2021, of the former Minneapolis policeman, Derek Chauvin, for the murder of the African-American man, George Floyd, was a pivotal moment in the history of policing in America. If you think the Nigeria Police operatives brutalise citizens, the police in the US not only brutalise citizens, especially non-white citizens, they regularly shoot and kill them first, before asking questions later. What makes this worse is that the police are rarely, if ever, charged for such killings, and if charged, prosecution is often dropped, and where prosecuted, they are almost never convicted. Police uniform in America is at once a badge of honour and a licence to kill, depending on the state of mind of the person wearing it. To say that racism in the American police is entrenched and institutionalised is really an understatement. Law enforcement should be neutral, in an ideal world, but it is so tainted with racial bias and prejudice mirroring the pervasive racial animosity in the wider American society. People in this part of the world often look up to America as the shiny city on a hill, pronounced so by the charismatic former US President Ronald Reagan (1981-1989). The reality, as far as policing is concerned, bears no resemblance to that lofty imagery. America is a country where to be black is to be presumed guilty until proved innocent. Police often hide behind the perception of ‘threat’ which they invariably see upon contact with anyone with a dark skin colour. A black person gets no benefit of the doubt casually given to white people in their encounter with police. What makes the Chauvin case a cause celebre is not the killing of George Floyd in broad daylight, but that it was recorded by a bystander, a teenage girl, on her mobile phone. The video clip, which has since gone viral, showed the police officer impassively kneeling and pressing on the neck of Floyd, who was already lying down in handcuffs behind his back, gasping for breath, and begging for his life. Even a domestic animal would not be handled in that way, and whoever does would be arrested for animal cruelty. Before the video clip of the incident came out, the police had put out a carefully scripted statement saying that a man under arrest had died due to a “medical emergency” as he was “resisting arrest”. That was the police line, lie, should we say, that the family of Floyd would have had to battle against. The authority of the police and security establishment had been put behind the initial statement. Official account of the police following such a deadly incident is given considerable weight. No one in law enforcement goes out wanting to kill anyone, it is generally believed. And, this is true for the vast majority of the police, but there is a significant number of rogue cops, such as Derek Chauvin, who treat their fellow citizens with such contempt that they would take out the light in a man even in full view of the camera. Why? Because they know they can do it and get away with it. The system would cover up for them. And it usually does – until now. Chauvin entered the dock as a former police officer (he had been dismissed a couple of months before) as a free man, but left in handcuffs with his hands in his back, as he was led by police officers down to the jail cells. He had been convicted of “second degree murder”, “third degree murder”, and “second degree manslaughter”. In the US law, murder is not just murder. The crime is ranked according to severity. In Chauvin’s case, the first indicates “absence of intention”, the second indicates “depraved mind”, and third, “culpable negligence”. It ranks from highest to the lowest the prosecution could file against him. The highest level of murder that could be filed against anyone under the US law is “murder in the first degree” or, “pre-meditated murder” for which the penalty is usually death or life in prison without the possibility of parole. So, no one is saying Chauvin set out to work that day with the intention of finding Floyd and killing him. Consequently, his conviction was based on the lesser charges but which, nonetheless, still carry pretty hefty sentences. He faces up to 40 years for second degree murder, 25 years for third degree murder, and 10 years for manslaughter. The prosecution had slapped him with the three in case they failed in the first. The second and third were put in place as safety valves. In this case, now, only the conviction on the first matters. On that basis, it is hard to see how he can get less than 20 years in jail. And could be more if the prosecution can further convince the judge of any aggravating factor to be taken into account. The defence will also do what they can to plead for a lenient sentence owing to the fact that it is his first criminal conviction. Chauvin will almost certainly lodge an appeal against both the conviction and sentence once it has been imposed. The conviction could, yes, could, be overturned on appeal. Would that set him free? Yes, but only temporarily. He would be re-tried and, I am sure, convicted again. Either way, Chauvin will not see daylight for decades to come. Why do we say this is America’s #EndSARS moment? Because, the police in Nigeria, especially the infamous Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) roamed the street like latter-day brigands. They rampaged, maimed, tortured and killed with impunity. Taking them to court to make them account for their crimes was not only a Herculean task for the citizens, it was nigh impossible even for the bravest of lawyers. Remember, we do not have private prosecution of crimes in this country. That is the sole responsibility of the state. And, on whose behalf the police are discharging their duty? You guess it, the state. The #EndSARS protest of 2020 in Nigeria rammed through the iron wall like a bulldozer and smashed the offending police unit to pieces. Similarly in America, Chauvin’s trial (not Floyd’s killing), but Chauvin’s trial, and conviction, is the pivotal moment. It united Middle America in condemnation of this particular police officer, and this particular act of barbarism, seen on television by millions of people around the world. It has ignited interest in legislative intervention to curb police excesses in America as a whole. A “George Floyd Justice in Policing Act” bill was placed before the House of Representatives last week, and passed. It seeks a major overhaul of policing in America. It will set up a national registry of police misconduct in a country of a thousand police departments across state jurisdictions, ban racial and religious profiling, ban chokeholds of suspects, and curtail the public servant’s “qualified immunity” which gives the police latitude at the expense of citizens’ rights and liberties. The bill has yet to pass the Senate, where Democrats and Republicans are evenly divided 50-50. So, it is not a done deal yet. But, it is still a seismic shift in public attitude towards policing in America. Nigeria deserves no less, but the momentum has already fizzled out I am afraid. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com