The Lagos State Police Command, on Thursday, paraded a painter, Moses Olaitan, and his accomplice, Segun Omoshola, for allegedly impersonating the Elegushi of Ikate land, Oba Saheed Elegushi, and using his image to defraud a woman they met on Facebook of N51m. The state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, while parading the suspects at the command headquarters in Ikeja, said after a report was made, detectives tracked down and arrested Olaitan and Segun three months after perpetrating the crime. READ ALSO: EFCC arrests 67 suspected Internet fraudsters in Ogun, Ondo Olaitan said after he opened a Facebook account in the name of the monarch, he started posting different pictures of the traditional ruler to attract potential suitors. He stated, “Everything happened on Facebook. I impersonated Oba Saheed Elegushi on Facebook and used his pictures. She (the victim) connected with me online and said she wanted to marry a king and we started from there. I told her that if she wanted to marry a king, she needs to do some cultural activities and she agreed. “She told me to send my account number, but because I didn’t have an account number, I contacted Segun, who provided the account used for collecting the money. “I was paid N2.5m and it was when I was brought to the command that I got to know that what she paid was N51m. How I was arrested was that the police tracked my cousin’s number. I was making arrangements for my birthday when the police arrested me.” Segun, 48, said the painter introduced him to the victim, adding, “I took him to those who provided the account used in collecting the money from the woman. I collected N3.5m. I was shocked when I heard that the money was N51m.” Odumosu also paraded three suspects, Abubakar Riskwua, 29; Ibrahim Issa, 20; and Abubakar Bello, 22, for allegedly killing and setting ablaze a yet-to-be-identified person in the Badagry area of the state. He said the suspects perpetrated the crime on the allegation that the victim was a thief at the Sawmill area of Badagry. The police boss also confirmed the arrest of a man, Segun Olusoji, 42, for allegedly defiling his nine-year-old daughter in the Ilasamaja area of the state. Odumosu said, “The case was initially reported by one Oluwafunmibi Ojewale, 27, against one Segun Olusoji, 42, at the Itire Divisional Police Headquarters and it was subsequently transferred to the SCIID, Yaba, for discreet investigation. “Upon interrogation, the complainant asserted that the suspect had unlawful carnal knowledge of his nine-year-old daughter. The victim also affirmed that the father usually wakes her up at night to carry out the indecent act.” Similarly, Odumosu said a case of conspiracy and defilement was transferred from the Ketu Police Station to the Gender Unit with a 12-year-old girl alleging that one Ebuka Orji defiled her. He said, “The 12-year-old alleged that one Ebuka Orji asked her to come to their kitchen when her mother was not at home. On getting to the kitchen, he removed her pants and put his manhood in her private parts, while the second suspect, Eze Emmanuel, pecked her sometime last year. The matter was eventually reported by the victim’s church member.” In another development, one Mama Ajayi was also paraded for alleged child trafficking in the Lekki area of the state. The CP said a foundation, the Auntlanda’s Bethel Foundation, made a report against Ajayi, adding that despite efforts to stop her from engaging in street begging with children, she refused to stop the act. He added, “The fact of the case is that the petitioner stated that the suspect was in the habit of using children as beggars on the streets and efforts to stop her from doing that proved abortive even after she was offered rehabilitation and empowerment by the Auntlanda’s Bethel Foundation. “The suspect was again seen on the street begging with another child. The suspect will soon be charged.” The command also paraded one Monsurat Olubodun, 21, for allegedly physically assaulting an 11-year-old boy in the Papa Ajao area of the state. The victim was accused of phone theft by Monsurat, and in a bid to make the victim confess, she allegedly flogged and tortured him with hot pressing iron. Odumosu said the suspect also hung the victim to a ceiling fan and his relative, Kunle Lateef, was left with no choice but to report to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, Panti, Yaba. Also, one Samuel James was arrested for alleged sexual assault on a customer, who lodged in a hotel in the Akoka area of the state. The CP said, “The suspect broke into the complainant’s room through the toilet window and assaulted her sexually. The suspect is presently in custody and will be charged on conclusion of investigation.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com