Continued from last Tuesday Let me illustrate what happens when Quantitative Easing is managed well and when it is mismanaged as follows: 1. If QE is used rightly, it is a veritable economic management tool that jumpstarts comatose economies back to life. So, let us say our economy produces 1,000 yams and money supply is N100,000, all the money will buy all the yams at N100 per tuber. Now, if the government adopts QE and prints N900,000 so that money supply is now N1 million and uses the money to boost the agricultural sector by clearing the land, buying farm equipment and building processing plants, there will be a sharp rise in output to 20,000 yams. N1m will buy 20,000 yams at N50 per yam so price has crashed (inflation tamed) and jobs created because the workforce that will produce 20,000 yams will be more than the one that produced 1,000 yams! This is the beauty of QE when used for economic growth! However and tragically too, if QE is mismanaged, it spells a death sentence to an economy. Nigeria is mismanaging QE by distributing it to the three tiers/arms of government. These governments are neither buying back bonds nor bailing out industries. The money is not committed to infrastructure either. Instead, the money is used for consumption with a huge chunk looted into the private pockets of those with access to the treasury. This portends danger to the Nigerian economy because the scenario above is reversed in the case of the Nigerian economy. Let us say that our economy produces 1,000 yams. Money supply was N100,000. All the money used in buying all the yams, a tuber of yam will cost N100. Let us say that through QE, money supply has increased to N1,000,000 without an increase in the quantity of yams produced, it means a tuber of yam will cost N1,000. As government continues to print money without commensurate increase in output of goods/services, prices will continue to rise until one day you will need a bag to carry the money to buy a tuber of yam! This is what happened to Robert Mugabe’s Zimbabwe’s currency where at a point one needed 35 million Zim dollars to buy a loaf of bread! And the shops were even empty as no goods were being produced! This is where Nigeria is heading if the government continues on the trajectory they are on right now of printing money without boosting output. Already, the impact of the mismanagement of QE is showing with Nigeria’s annual inflation reported to have climbed to a more than four-year high in March 2021, rising 82 basis points from a month earlier to 18.17%. Notably, food inflation rose to 22.95% which is making it increasingly impossible for families to feed their children! Constructive criticism is the one that comes with viable suggested solutions. When individuals or organisations are struggling financially, there are two ways open to them to drive out of the economic jam! First is to reduce cost and second is to increase revenue. This is like a double dose of vaccine to give government a fighting chance against infection of financial troubles. Therefore, the following are the top five suggested economic management tools that are available to the Nigerian government to adopt to jumpstart the economy: If the Federal Government follows the suggested solutions, the Nigerian economy will begin to experience astronomical growth and this will be real growth and not steroids which QE is. But if the government continues on the trajectory of printing money (QE) without output backed, we will be sure on the road to Zimbabwe and a catastrophic end to our economy. This must be avoided at all costs! Concluded This article was first published in www.nationalaccordnewspaper