As the Anambra State governorship elections draw closer, All Progressives Congress leaders have gathered to discuss and strategise on a deliberate approach for the party to clinch victory in the election. Among those who attended the event are the Vice President of Nigeria, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo; the former Senate President and South East Representative in the APC National Caretaker Committee, Senator Ken Nnamani; Festus Keyamo, Uche Ogah. Others are APC former Vice Chairman South East, Emma Eneukwu; former APC National Organising Secretary, Osita Izunaso; Femi Ojodu, and Margery Okadigbo, Nkiru Onyeagocha, Ambassadors Elijah Onyeagba and Jerry Ugokwe, and Farouk Lawan. The APC leaders listened to the presentations by the party’s aspirants on how to develop the state During his presentation, Azuka Okwuosa expressed confidence that the party will emerge victoriously in the election. Okwuosa encouraged other aspirants to consider a path to partnership, noting that all hands should be on deck notwithstanding who emerges as the party’s candidate. “Anambra State needs the APC vehicle to totally transform the fate of Anambrarians and he has the capacity to deliver excellence in governance that will transform the people and bring Ndi Anambra out of her impoverished status. My focus will drive a complete power sector reform, industrialisation and commercial reforms, educational reforms amongst many others,” he said. Other APC aspirants present are Dr. Paul Orajiaka, Dr. George Moghalu, Johnbosco Onunkwo, Col. Arc. Geoff Onyejegbu Rtd., Dr. Andy Ubah, Chief Ben Etiaba FCA, Dr. Chidozie Nwankwo, and Comrade Maxwell Okoye. The party’s leaders and aspirants agreed that “a credible primaries process is the first step in the right direction to getting all hands-on deck and emerging victorious at the polls”. On his part, Osinbajo encouraged all to be committed to a credible primary election and also charged everyone present to play their respective roles in ensuring that APC emerges victoriously.