A legal practitioner, Adekunle Tuyo, has said hailed Nigerians in diaspora, saying many of them are well-behaved and educated. Tuyo, who reviewed the book titled, ‘The world at their feat: Amazing stories of 100 Nigerian Diaspora ambassadors,’ said this at the public presentation of the book. He said, “Coming against the backdrop of the negativity that the activities of a few unpatriotic and criminally-minded Nigerians have attracted to the national image, this work is both refreshing ad encouraging. It espouses the indomitable nature of the Nigerian spirit. “The book is dedicated to the millions of Nigerians scattered all over the earth who continued to score remarkable achievements in every facet of human endeavours. As an adjunct, the book is also dedicated to the negligible percentage of Nigerians in diaspora. “The author reveals that while Nigerians constitute about one per cent of the immigrants’ population in America, they are said to be some of the most educated with about 60 per cent having at least a first degree. That, as the author observed is double the American average of 30 per cent.” Tuyo added that the foreword of the book was written by the Chairman of the Nigerians in Diaspora Commission, Mrs Abike Dabiri-Erewa. “Dabiri-Erewa correctly identifies resilience of the Nigerian spirit; she commends and congratulates the author for his bold and patriotic efforts in creating awareness about the giant strides of Nigerians in diaspora,” Tuyo added. The chairman on the occasion, Dr Ebenezer Sonaiya, said the book was dedicated to millions of Nigerians gathered all over the world with remarkable achievements in every facet of human endeavours. “There is the need to update this book regularly. It is not only to celebrate them but learn from their achievements so that Nigerians young adults will be motivated,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com