President of the Nigeria Badminton Federation, Francis Orbih, says the country’s qualification for the Olympic Games in Tokyo suffered a major setback after players were unable to compete in several competitions. The country’s badminton stars were billed to participate in championships in Peru, Singapore, Portugal, India and Malaysia to help seal tickets for the Olympics, but have missed out on two of the championships, with another postponed. Speaking with The PUNCH Wednesday, Orbih lamented the setback, but added that Nigeria remained in a good position to qualify for the Olympics. He said, “The championship in Peru, Portugal, India and the rest all make up for the Olympics qualification, but as it is now, the competition in Peru started today (Wednesday) but the players couldn’t make it because we had issues with visas and transit visas after all the efforts. “Peruvian visas can only be secured in Accra, Ghana and by the time we secured the visas, transit visas became a problem because there was no airline to take them to Peru without transit visas and there was no time to process that. So, we had to drop out. “And for the competition in India, it got postponed two days ago. Now, what we have left is the competition in Singapore and Malaysia. We were in Portugal, which shares close proximity to India, and if it were under the normal circumstances, we would have been able to play the two games. But because of the COVID-19 requirements, we were meant to have come into India about six days before the game. “There was no way we would have been able to compete in the two events, so we withdrew from the event in Portugal so we could compete for the one in India because that is a bigger championship, but 30 minutes after we withdrew, they announced the postponement of the championship in India.” He continued, “I have written an appeal letter to the World Badminton Federation to have us reinstated for the Portugal championship, but they have not responded. We are still in the race and we are hoping that we will scale through. There are still chances of qualifying for the Olympics, but what happened here was a major setback.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com