SOME state governors from the northern part of the country on Thursday met with the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on the security challenges facing their states and the region. The governors were led to the meeting that was held behind closed doors at the Presidential Villa, Abuja by the Chairman of the Northern Governors’ Forum, Simon Lalong, who is also the Governor of Plateau State. The Chief of Staff to the President, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, also attended the meeting with his principal. At the end of the meeting, Lalong told State House correspondents that the meeting centred on the peculiar security challenges facing each state and efforts to tackle them. The governor said, “This meeting was in respect of some of the common features of insecurity that we have within our states. “You will recall that many of the states have some of the insecurities that are very similar. “So, we put them together and see how to address some of those issues and we felt that we must also meet Mr President about it since it is about the insecurity.” Lalong, who declined to give details of discussion at the meeting since they bordered on national security, however, said they got the commitment of the President that all suggestions made would be implemented. He added, “I think they (the details) are not to be disclosed because these are about security. “But the takeaway is that the meeting with the President was very fruitful and we are also very committed, and we have seen a lot of commitment. So, we are waiting for implementation. “The assurance I will give you is that based on this meeting, we will also wait to see the commitment, and Mr President has given us that assurance.” State governors who joined Lalong at the meeting were Atiku  Bagudu (Kebbi);  Nasir El-Rufai (Kaduna);  Abubakar Bello (Niger); and Abdullahi Sule (Nasarawa). Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com