The parish priest of St. Anthony Catholic Church, Gbaja, Surulere, Lagos, Monsignor Bernard Okodua, has reiterated the commitment of the church to human and community development. Okodua stated this at a news conference as part of the events to mark the 60th anniversary of the parish and the feast of St Anthony of Padua. The cleric described the anniversary as a strong assertion of the church’s values and beliefs, as a transformation and change agent, which it had held for the past 60 years. He also said it demonstrates the contribution of the parish to its immediate environs and a message to all about its unrelenting commitment and continuous response to the needs and growth of its immediate community. Okodua, in a statement on Saturday titled, ‘Catholic Church restates commitment to human development,’ said, “Our anniversary day is our annual feast day, the feast of St Anthony of Padua, which is June 13. But this year, being a special year, our diamond anniversary, we have decided to celebrate in a grander way, bringing in relevant church societies and groups to have their own special day of celebrations.” He said, “All over the ages, the church has been involved in the life of humanity, structuring society with its functions and institutions and in shaping the form and quality of political systems. It is certain that due to the proximity of the church and the services we offer, it has become indispensable to the immediate community. For a fact, some people are beneficiaries of our services, which include medical care from our government accredited clinic, which we intend to expand, to cater for more persons.” “In the years long past, God gave these men and women a vision to establish a Parish. It must have been a daunting task and would have cost them dearly in terms of time, energy and resources, yet they did it. The anniversary is worth celebrating.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com