THE bloodshed that blighted the bye-election held recently in Ekiti East Constituency I in the Ekiti East Local Government Area of the state further underscored the reign of terror that usually overshadows elections in Nigeria. In the latest violence, three persons reportedly lost their lives when political thugs opened fire on hapless voters during polling to fill a seat in the state assembly following the death of the All Progressives Congress lawmaker representing the constituency. The louts fouled the polling unit ambience barely two hours after voting started. The Independent National Electoral Commission thus instantly suspended the election. A sour taste was left in the mouths of stakeholders when three days later, one of those injured in the cruelty, a female police officer, Olawoye Bukola, died. Elections and violence in Nigeria are like Siamese twins. The brutalities associated with elections across states are numbing. Some gory incidents from the 2019 general election appositely exposed the dilemma: Political thugs murdered party agents in the Nkwerre LGA of Imo State. Hoodlums also killed a police corporal, Mannir Usman, and another employee of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps, Umar Aliyu, after disrupting elections in Dan Musa LGA of Katsina State. Rivers State recorded a troubling death toll when six voters were feared killed by thugs in Abonnema, Akoku-Toru LGA during the election. In the same election, a lawmaker representing Akinyele/Lagelu Federal Constituency, Oyo State, Temitope Latoya, popularly called ‘Sugar,’ was killed; he was shot in the head at point blank range by thugs in the violence that marred the exercise in Lalupon area of the state. Irked by the Ekiti poll violence, the state governor, Kayode Fayemi, vowed that the perpetrators would be apprehended and duly prosecuted. He said, “No one involved in the dastardly act would go unpunished. Our condolences go to the families that lost loved ones and the injured. Government would not relent in efforts to always ensure safety of lives and property. We shall ensure all purveyors of violence are brought to book.” The governor must walk the talk to convince Nigerians and the world that the state would not condone any further acts of illegality. Security agents, and INEC, need to calculatedly use the Ekiti incident to express displeasure and prohibition of such acts during elections particularly as 2023 beckons. They have to ensure the arrest and trial of suspects and their sponsors. Instructively, the commission and police have to see the incident as a litmus test in preparation for the next general election. The state government, on its part, should interpret it as administrative incompetence if perpetrators are not brought to book. Stakeholders should collaborate with the commission to push for the establishment of an electoral crimes commission to independently prosecute persons culpable of electoral fraud to attain electoral integrity. This is operational in several global democracies that Nigeria envies. It has to resolutely join the rest of the world in establishing stronger, independent institutions. Failure of existing laws to hinder activities of promoters of electoral violence continues to embolden them to revel in their nasty acts. The jailing of a professor in Cross River State for electoral violence perpetrated during the 2019 elections is seen by many as a flash in the pan. Many others should get their comeuppance. Left to thrive, electoral violence, intimidation by security forces and militarisation of elections consistently discourage voters at every election season. Eligible voters prefer staying in their homes to risking their lives at polling units. The growing voter apathy has reached an alarming rate to the extent that the INEC disclosed recently that voter turnout hovered between 30 and 35 per cent in the last two electoral cycles, including off-season elections. Democracy loses its impact when the majority refuse to participate in choosing their leaders. Notably, in the December 5, 2020, Lagos-East bye-election, INEC observed that less than nine percent participated of the 1,168,790 voters with permanent voter cards in the five LGAs viz Somolu, Epe, Ibeju-Lekki, Ikorodu and Kosofe comprising the senatorial district. This was despite #EndSARS protests which caused the shift of the election date by a month. The commission’s Chairman, Mahmood Yakubu, at INEC’s first consultative meeting with Civil Society Organisations in 2021, said a few elections had higher voter participation while some recent by-elections recorded lower, such as the 8.3 percent voter turnout in an urban constituency of over 1.2 million registered voters located in the country’s most densely populated city. Voter apathy allows fraudulent candidates to explore dubious means such as violence and vote buying to win elections. The resultant effects, strangely, are the electoral victories determined by the courts rather than through the ballot. A true reform is needed to breathe life into Nigeria’s comatose electoral space. It is hoped that the commission’s fresh efforts at midwifing a new Electoral Act would reverse the awful trend. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com