What caught your interest about make-up? I have always had a flair for make-up, even as a child. I have always loved to make female drawings on a paper and use my crayons as make-up. As I grew older, the passion increased because I usually read articles about make-up in fashion magazine’s bought by my mum. Were you self taught or did you undergo special training? I was operating self-taught, until I enrolled for proper training. I believe that the most important thing is to be passionate about make-up. How long have you been doing this? I started doing make-up full time in January 2019. How was the experience when you started? It was really challenging in the beginning. The first six months were not ‘funny’ but with consistency, I was able to weather the storm. I was doing make-up photo shoots back to back, and was uploading them on all my social media platforms until I began to get clients from Facebook, and referrals from people I had worked on in the past. How would you describe the journey so far? It has been an amazing journey. God has been on our side and He has been undeniably faithful. I cannot believe how much progress we have made in the past two years. What are some of the challenges you face? As a make-up artist, one needs tools such as ring light, Lowel Tota light and make-up chair to work better. Meanwhile, these things are quite expensive. Yet, the fashion industry keeps evolving by the day and one must stay on top of one’s game by being in the know. Being a make-up artist entails one to meet people of different characters. Some are kind, while some have overbearing attitudes. What are some of the risks you face in the course of doing your job? Going to execute jobs at unknown places or being booked for home service by someone one barely knows. However, one should always give details of one’s movements to one’s loved ones. What have been your gains and losses? The gains have been higher than the loss. I cannot remember encountering any serious loss. However, I have lost some brushes in the course of bridal engagements. But, that does not happen often because I am a very careful person. Some people feel make-up artists just sit in their comfort zones making quick money without stress. What’s your reaction to that? Applying make-up can be very taxing. It is not as easy as people think for one to keep standing and bending for long hours. One is prone to muscle strains and other types of injuries. Sometimes, one could go hungry for the day due to the overwhelming number of clients one has to cater to. However, it is a lucrative business; the industry is booming. There are a lot of make-up artists out there. How do you handle competition? I believe that the sky is wide enough for all birds to fly. One just has to stay focused and be consistent. If one does that, it is people that would come looking for one, no matter how competitive it is out there. It is one’s creativity that would keep one going as a make-up artist. What educational qualifications do you possess? I studied History and International Studies at the Imo State University. Have you ever worked with anyone? I have never liked working for anyone. I am not a 9am-5pm kind of person. It was solely my choice to toe this path. I have always been a business-minded person who wanted to be self employed. However, I went job hunting sometime ago and the experience was quite discouraging. So, I channelled my energy into my skill and I’m happy I chose to practise what I have passion for. By the grace of God, it is paying off. What advice do you have for other young entrepreneurs out there? They should ensure that they find out what they have passion for and build on it. They should be very consistent, dedicated and patient, and put God first always. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com