A socio-political group, Agege New Delta Model (ANDEM), has canvassed a structural change in the administration of Delta State in 2023. It lamented that Delta at 30 years had remained crawling without the necessary infrastructural development. The group, which is believed to be rooting for the emergence of the Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, as the governor of Delta State in 2023, also charged those at the helms of affairs in Delta to desist from engaging in white elephant projects at the detriment of grass roots development. The group warned the incumbent government in Delta to “stop draining our commonwealth in the name of spurious projects that are not seen or felt.” It said, “The Peoples Democratic Party government in our state is on a mop up of our treasury and that must stop now.  Every missing kobo at the fullness of time shall be accounted for.” Speaking at the inauguration of ANDEM in Warri on Saturday, the convener of the group, Pastor Edewor Egedegbe, said, “Delta at 30 has remained a crawling baby that has refused to grow due mainly to deliberate acute malnutrition. “Governance in our state since creation and subsequent birth of democracy in the world’s most populated black nation has permanently remained reverse gear, no thanks to the operators of political system who have vowed to keep Delta perpetually in a state of gross underdevelopment,” he said. Egedegbe explained that the formation of ANDEM by people of like minds was aimed at “bringing the desired change to the state through the man” who had shown capacity and leadership. Egedegbe disclosed that millions of Deltans who craved for change had been rooting silently for the emergence of senator Omo-Agege as governor of the state in 2023. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com