South African rapper, Kiernan Forbes, popularly known as AKA, has broken the silence after the death of his fiancée, Nellie Tembe. The rapper’s fiancée had died earlier this month after she fell from the tenth floor of the Pepper Club Hotel in Cape Town. AKA paid lobola to Nellie’s family in March after the duo got engaged in February this year. Speaking on the demise of his heartthrob via a statement, which he posted on his verified Instagram page, the rap artiste said that he had lost ‘the love of his life.’ He wrote, “I have lost the love of my life… and every day feels like a mountain to climb. I miss Anele, so much, and I’m heartbroken at the unfulfilled life we had planned together. “The tragic loss of Anele has taken a great toll on me, emotionally and psychologically. Insinuations and innuendos made on my personhood have made it even more difficult to process and the strain our families have taken is unspeakable – which is why at this time, I choose to retreat to honour my journey, praying that the moments of stillness may bring me closer to some clarity.” AKA seized the opportunity to thank his friends and family for supporting him during these trying times. “I wish to convey my gratitude to all the people who have supported me during this difficult time in my life; my mom, Lynn, and dad, Tony, Bab’ Moses and Ndabezitha, my brother, Steffan, my family (both Forbes and Tembe), my heartfelt gratitude to you all. “To my business associates, political leaders, industry peers and elders, friends and my neighbours, thank you for rallying around me. Last but not least, to my incredibly loyal fans, the MEGACY, your collective love and support have brought me much comfort.” The rap artiste pleaded with the public to respect his privacy at this period as he mourns. “As we undergo this painful journey, I have entrusted my team to handle all of my affairs in the public domain, including all my social media platforms. Please respect our privacy as we go through our grieving process, and please continue to keep our families in your prayers. Love & Blessings Kiernan Forbes,” he said.