The warring factions of the Peoples Democratic Party in Ogun State led by the late Senator Buruji Kashamu and a former House of Representatives, Oladipupo Adebutu, have resolved their differences and reunited. After over a decade of crisis and court orders, loyalists of both Kashamu and Adebutu who are the two major factions on Wednesday, reunited and bowed to reclaim the state in the coming 2023 elections. The factions met during a reunion meeting held at the party secretariat in Abeokuta. The leaders of the two factions resolved to work together towards strengthening the party for the 2023 elections. Leading the Kashamu faction, Segun Seriki, declared that the party will henceforth operate under Sikirullahi Ogundele-led executive of the PDP, thereby collapsing the other faction which paraded Samson Bamgbose as the Chairman. He expressed regret that the crisis had robbed off PDP the chances of returning to power since 2011 when the party was defeated upon expiration of Gbenga Daniel’s tenure. Seriki called on party members to be committed to the reunion and work towards rebuilding the party for victory in the 2023 election. Bamgbose applauded the leaders of the party for achieving reconciliation of the warring factions of the PDP. He asked the PDP leaders and supporters to be ready for the battle to unseat the ruling party in 2023. He said “We are going to the battlefront. We must be ready and win.” The party Chairman, Sikirullahi Ogundele, said the reunion marked the beginning of a new relationship that would drive the party to power in 2023. He said, “I am happy that the PDP of 2003 is now back. We are now together in harmony, looking forward to having a united PDP in Ogun State. “We are going to get back our mandate from the misrule of the APC, a party that has no blueprint. “They just wake up in the morning and embark on any project that comes to their head. They give water or road where not needed. The PDP is the best party so far and we are winning in 2023.” A former spokesperson to former presidents Olusegun Obasanjo, and Goodluck Jonathan, Doyin Okupe, expressed happiness over the reunion of the factions. Okupe, however, cautioned leaders in the party that “there will still be a fight, there cannot be equality. Disagreement is not disloyalty, if we don’t disagree, we can’t agree to move forward. There is a way to go about everything.” Adebutu in his remarks enjoined party members to work in harmony, adding that the party has come as the alternative choice. He said, “The people of Ogun State need a platform to rescue them, the PDP has come to rescue Ogun residents and Nigerians from the sufferings by the APC.”