Actor, Timi Egbuson, has said that those who feel he had a fast rise in Nollywood are just being myopic. Egbuson, who won the Best Actor in a Drama category at the Africa Magic Viewers Choice Awards 2020, told Sunday Scoop, “I have been in Nollywood for 11 years. From years of not being given AMVCA invites to getting nominated and winning. I don’t think that is a fast rise. I went through every step required. I once attended an audition of 4,000 people in Surulere, Lagos. I have experienced many rejections. Anybody that thinks it’s a fast rise is just myopic.” On if he was satisfied with how far he had come, the Breaded Life actor said, “I am satisfied with my background. I know for a fact that it is the grace of God. I cannot take anything for granted. I can never complain or be upset. I have shot about 27 movies that have not even been released. I don’t have any other job. This is what I do for a living and I have been able to use it to sustain myself and my family.” Reacting to insinuations that he is being stereotyped, he said, “People that feel I am being stereotyped have probably not watched all my movies. I have done over 60 movies. How many have they watched? When you find out how many they have watched, you would realise that they have not seen half of the movies I have starred in. I don’t think there is any character my colleagues have acted that I have not played. I have acted as a bad boy, poor boy, rich boy, lover boy, ‘yahoo boy’ and others. A few years ago when I didn’t have haters or trolls, I was very worried. I knew that success without haters meant that one was not really on top. Now that the haters are coming out and I am hearing these other opinions, it just makes me happy.” On how he reacts to trolls on social media, Egbuson said, “I love them. They make me laugh. Guess what? They know me but I don’t know them.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com