The Senate on Wednesday accused its committee on Customs, Excise and Tariff of not carrying out a proper oversight on the Nigerian Customs Service. The red chamber said the poor oversight accounted for the poor revenue generated by the NCS in the 2020 fiscal year. The Senate gave the condemnation at plenary when it considered the report of its panel on Customs, Excise and Tariff on the 2021 budget presented by the chairman, Senator Francis Alimikhena. Despite the sweeping condemnation of its panel, the Senate, nevertheless, approved the sum of N257.18bn as budget for the Nigeria Customs Service for the 2021 fiscal year. Alimikhena had in his presentation said out of the amount budgeted for the NCS in the 2021 financial year, the sum of N99.72bn was earmarked for personnel cost. He also said N19.53bn was voted for overhead and N137.93bn for capital cost. The senator said the committee increased the NCS revenue target from N1.47bn to N1.68bn. He said, “In the 2021 fiscal year, the NCS revenue target was pegged at N1.47tn comprising of N1.27tn for Federation Account and N197.99bn for Non-Federation Account respectively.” He said the NCS expected revenues were from the seven per cent cost of collection for 2021 projected at N111.57bn; two per cent VAT share of NCS – N7.5bn; 60 per cent share of CISS – N47.01bn; and Retained Earnings for Ongoing Projects, 2020 – N91.1bn. The Senate President, Ahmad Lawan, expressed his disappointment at the committee’s performance in terms of oversight. Lawan said, “Chairman, I think you need to upscale your oversight on the Customs because these narratives that they will keep money, they will not do budget implementation is as a result of insufficient oversight. “We need to be aware of all these things in good time. “You need to report back to the Senate on what is happening and then advise them on what is appropriate and legal as far as the implementation of the budget is concerned. “We are not supposed to be hearing these things now; so improve on your oversight.” Senators took turns to point out what they called bogus and illegal votes in the proposed budget for the NCS. Senator Sam Egwu objected to the N2bn welfare packages for retiring NCS officers in addition to their normal and legal retirement benefits. Senator Bala Ibn Na’Allah expressed shock that the sum of N200m could be voted for a nonfunctional aircraft belonging to the NCS. He said it was even more strange that another N100m was voted for fuelling the same aircraft. He also queried the N180m that had been voted for fumigation. “What are you fumigating?” he queried. When given the opportunity to respond to the issues raised, Alimikhena explained that the N2bn was not restricted to officers but all the ranks of the NCS. However, the Senate said it approved the NCS 2021 budget on the condition that that its committee would improve on its oversight. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com