As part of efforts to stem the tide of insecurity and crime in Plateau State, the State Executive Council has approved the procurement of 50 patrol pickup vans and 200 security motorcycles for distribution to security agencies in the state. Briefing newsmen late Wednesday after the weekly State Executive Council Meeting held at the New Government House, Little Rayfield Jos, Commissioner for Information and Communication Mr. Dan Manjang said the decision was taken to strengthen the capacity of the security agencies to respond to various challenges across the state. He said the patrol vehicles and motorcycles will be deployed across the state and utilised for the purpose of proactively tackling kidnapping, banditry, and other crimes. He said there will be increased intelligence gathering, particularly in the rural areas. Manjang also said that Council approved the scrapping of Plateau Agric Mechanization and Supply Company because it doesn’t have a law establishing it and its functions have been subsumed under the ASTC. The staff according to him will be redeployed in relevant MDAs and their parent ministries. Council also approved the report of the economic and financial sub-councils and directed for a draft white paper on the relationship between ministries and parastatal in the execution of their statutory functions. Having an approval of three sub councils last week. The Exco also approved the construction of some roads in the state. They include Aliyu Makama – Muslim Pilgrims Board to Plateau Hospital Link Road; Joe Garba and Wamba Close roads to be executed through direct labour. It also approved the rehabilitation and construction of NDLEA – Zarazon – Fobur Road Phase One also through direct labour. Also approved is the execution of constituency projects under the supervision of the Plateau State Road Maintenance Agency. The projects are for Bokkos, Pengana, Pankshin North, Riyom, Langtang, Pankshin South, Mangu South, Kanke, Rukuba/Irigwe constituencies to the tune of 91 million naira. Some road projects were also terminated: The Mangu Bye-pass Road project of 13km that was first awarded to PW and re-awarded to Sky Technical and Construction Company, and also the 18.4km Mai Juju-Zandi Road was terminated and the contractor is to make a refund of N68, 870, 350.18 naira. Commissioner for Health, Dr. Nimkong Lar, also gave an update of COVID-19 cases with 64,894 persons tested and confirmed cases standing at 9,052. Number of persons administered with the Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine so far at 40, 625.