A social-cultural group, Kiriji Heritage Defenders, has called on the Osun State Government to direct security men to act before some suspected herdsmen hiding in forest located near Osogbo, Iragbiji and Ibokun towns, carry out abduction in the state. The group in a statement by its Director General, Dr Ademola Ekundayo, explained that the fleeing herdsmen were behind the recent attack on Koka village. The statement reads in part, “We bring it to the notice of the government that suspected herdsmen that attacked Koka village, Obokun Local Government Area on Sunday are still hiding in forest around Osogbo, Iragbiji and Ibokun. “The fleeing herdsmen are more than eight in number. Some hunters chased them from Koka and they fled into the forest along Iragbiji and Osogbo. Through the forest, the gunmen can also access Ibokun. “We advise Osun State Government to mobilise all security groups – both conventional and unconventional ones to storm the forest and flush out these criminals before they cause havoc.” Meanwhile, One Salisu Sulaiman has been arrested by the Osun State Police Command in connection with the Sunday attempt to abduct residents of Koka village. Some suspected herdsmen had stormed the village around 11.30pm and attempted to abduct some residents. Combined efforts of men of Hunters Group of Nigeria, the residents and the police, however, foiled the attempt, while the herdsmen fled. Giving update on Wednesday, the spokesperson for the command, Yemisi Opalola, in a statement, said the 18-year old suspect, hails from Idofihan in Kwara State. She said, “The suspect was arrested at about 12.15pm on Tuesday. Manhunt for other suspects continues.” Speaking on the incident, a resident of Koka, who preferred not to be named, said Sulaiman was arrested, while attempting to buy drugs at a medicine store. According to him, the suspect had approached a resident and ask for where drug store is located in the area, and “upon close monitoring, we discovered that the boy bought drugs for the treatment for wound for someone in the forest. “The resident later raised alarm and the suspect was apprehended and over to the police,” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com