Gunshots were heard in Lekki Phase 1 Gate, Lagos State as motorcycle (Okada) riders resisted the police from impounding their motorcycles. In a viral video, people were seen running helter-skelter as sounds of gunshots were heard and weapons were thrown. It was learnt that the incident created panic in the area. Some of the eyewitnesses had alleged that there was a clash between the police and the Okada riders when the video surfaced online on Monday. However, in a statement on Tuesday, the Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, Hakeem Odumosu, described the rumoured attack by okada operators on police personnel in Lekki as captured in the viral video, as false and mischievous. The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, CSP Olumuyiwa Adejobi, said in a statement that the Command after carefully studying the video, noticed that the originators of the video distorted the fact and raised a false alarm. “This was in order to cause confusion and create fears in the minds of the general public for reasons best known to the originators or sponsors as the case may be. “The command wishes to set the record straight that on Monday, April 26, about 09:30 am, the Divisional Police Officer in Maroko, Lagos State, was informed that some okada riders were on the rampage by resisting the police from impounding their motorcycles at Lekki Phase 1 Gate. “The area falls within the restricted areas for okada operations in the state. The Divisional Police Officer then called for reinforcement and ordered his policemen to race to the place to take charge and restore normalcy. “The policemen were able to curtail their activities and chased them to their hideout where 31 of their motorcycles were impounded and one of the leaders, one Mohammed, was arrested. Normalcy has been restored to the area.” he said. The PPRO said the command will always maintain law and order across the state, especially on the enforcement of the restriction order and traffic law on operations of okada in the state. He added that the Commissioner of Police urged the general public to disregard the viral video and perceive the originator and his peddled rumour as baseless and mischievous. “The CP enjoins Lagosians to go about their lawful businesses and support the police command in its bid to maintain law and order across the length and breadth of Lagos State. “In conclusion, the originator of the video is being traced for necessary investigation,” he said.