A girlfriend and I compared notes not long ago and we touched on really important emotional issues. She told me that she was the type that got angry easily and if that happens and the man delays in “begging” her, the relationship ends. She eventually succeeded in working on her anger issue but the other side (ego?) of her has been hard to let go of. At the time of our conversation also, they seemed to be having issues and I told her not to hesitate to reach out first. I have come to understand that life brings (into our lives) people that will keep triggering a particular weakness in us until we begin to respond better. I believe it’s better to see the presence of certain characters in one’s life as a training ground. Once you start to see them as your “training” (and NOT frustration) ground, your mind will begin to process your issues with them in a new light. For example, if “apologising” is herculean to you, your redemption will NOT come from finding someone who doesn’t point out your wrongdoing. If over bloated EGO is your attitudinal drawback, you will not find your redemption in that person who would rather massage your ego at the slightest misunderstanding. Your redemption will most likely lie in your TOLERANCE of someone who rubs your EGO uncomfortably until it’s weakened. If you are irritated by every rub, how will you be polished?- Rumi Life brings forth certain uncomfortable realities so that we can be so uncomfortably rubbed that growth happens. Or learn to restrain impulsive tendencies if one is growth minded. Our triggers point to the emotions that hold us in bondage. The beauty of these is that you are the one that emerges better in the end! Sometimes, see that flaw/weakness in the other as a training ground (in forgiveness, patience, humility, self-control, perseverance, understanding and tolerance) for you. It’s said that there’s no escaping the lessons of life. And that a soul lesson will be repeated in various forms until one has learned it. So, it’s best to work on yourself rather than seeking out who will stoop for your shortcomings. “Those who trigger us are messengers for the unhealed parts of our being.’’ However, it’s important to NOT let yourself become the reason someone prays for peace! I was once involved with someone who could keep MALICE. And one was reduced to writing epistles of apology, frequently. The first lesson the experience taught me is that the ability to LET GO is strength. But most importantly, I learned to appreciate better, the people to whom a smile or “just talking again” settles ANY misunderstanding between us, begging or epistles are never needed. There are experiences you go through at the hands of someone and you immediately begin to appreciate people that are described as “easy going.’’ One used to take people who don’t take things too seriously for granted but NOT anymore. I should have actually titled this piece, “In appreciation of easy going people.’’ They are indeed the rare breed! Even when a typical malice-keeper struts back into your space, they make a point of proving some deluded point to you through highhandedness in communication. And when they try to pinch at forgiveness with you, some of them will use “bad mouth’’ and references to the past, to finish you first so much so that you are left wondering if they actually forgave for real. Sometimes, you don’t know how burdensome it is to relate with certain people until you find the courage to embrace a breath of fresh air! When you learn about certain behavioural oddities in relationships, be thankful for the problems you don’t have to deal with. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com