Men of the Ondo State Police Command have arrested a houseboy, identified as Emmanuel Akpan, for allegedly killing his boss and stealing some personal items of the deceased. Some of the items allegedly stolen from the deceased are N3,500, two phones, jewellery and a generator. READ ALSO: Grace period on death warrants’ signing has ended – Obiano Parading the suspects at the headquarters of the command in Akure on Thursday, the Commissioner of Police, Mr Bolaji Salami, said the suspect killed his boss, Mrs Febisola Adedayo, a restaurateur in Ondo town, with a cutlass while she was sleeping. According to the CP, Emmanuel was brought to work for Adedayo by his friend, Goodness Akpan, with an assurance that she was wealthy. “Both of them fled to a village in Ogun State but were trailed there by police detectives, who arrested them,” Salami stated. Emmanuel said Goodness convinced him to kill his boss in order to steal her property, but the latter denied the allegation. The command also paraded 26 others arrested for various criminal activities across the 18 local government areas of the state. They were alleged to have been involved in criminal activities such as murder, kidnapping, armed robbery, child stealing and assault on a police officer. The CP said the suspects were arrested following tip-offs by members of the public. Giving the breakdown, Salami said six suspects were nabbed for robbery, three for murder, 12 were for kidnapping, two for child stealing, while four persons were apprehended for assaulting a police officer on duty. The CP also stated that the sum of N2.6m and pieces of ammunition were recovered from the suspects. “My officers and men have maintained a high sense of professional competence and this has brought about the arrest and parade of the suspects,” the commissioner added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com