Contractors handling rehabilitation works at the National Stadium, Lagos say their inability to meet the previous May completion and handing over deadline was due to late arrival of materials into the country. Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, last December gave the contractors May 2021 to complete the renovation of the pitch of the 55,000 capacity facility, but recently announced that the stadium would now be ready in August, following the initial delay. The rehabilitation of the athletics track, football pitch and the electronic scoreboard is sponsored by billionaire businessman and owner of Premier Lotto, Chief Kensington Adebutu, under Dare’s Adoption Initiative. Our correspondent, who visited the stadium recently, noticed that the playing pitch had been landscaped, but the seeds for the grass were yet to be planted. The tartan tracks were also yet to be installed, while the scoreboard was yet to be replaced. One of the contractors, who spoke to The PUNCH on the condition of anonymity as he was not authorised to speak on the issue, said the delay was caused by lateness in arrival of the materials needed for the completion of the job. “The May date was no longer feasible because of the challenges we faced in having the goods brought down to the country. Most of the materials for the tracks are all foreign-sourced and that caused a major delay in the delivery of the project,” our source said. However, the contractor on site George Ntiense said materials for the completion of the job had arrived, with “work expected to continue in earnest” ahead of the August deadline. “Work is ongoing on the pitch, we should be done with the landscaping by the end of this week and planting of the state-of-the-art grass will start next week,” Ntiense said. “The pitch will be lush green in May and we will be working on installing the scoreboard at the same time work is ongoing on the pitch. The scoreboard we got is state-of-the-art as well and is VAR compliant. “We’ve gone far because we are done with our irrigation. The materials needed for the rehabilitation of the playing pitch and tartan tracks are ready, what is left is installing them,” Ntiense added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com