Amidst outpouring of encomium and emotions, remains of the late Afenifere spokesperson, Comrade Yinka Odumakin, were on Saturday interred in his house on Ewuru Street, Moro, Osun State. The internment was preceded by the lying-in-state and burial service held at the playground of Origbo Grammar School, Moro, and attended by eminent Nigerians. The carnival-like burial service was spiced up with songs of praise, prayers and tributes to the departed in the presence of the Chairman, Nigerian Governors Forum, Kayode Fayemi, Osun and Oyo states’ governors, Adegboyega Oyetola and Seyi Makinde, and ex-Ondo state governor, Olusegun Mimiko. Also present at the service were President, Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria, Bishop Wale Oke, leader of Yoruba socio cultural group, Afenifere, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, wife of Osun State governor, Kafayat Oyetola, the state Deputy Governor, Benedict Alabi, and ex-Police Affairs Minister, Jelili Adesiyan. Clad in wine red dresses, the pall-bearers brought the body of the late Afenifere spokesperson into the venue of the burial service around 10:20am amid drumming. The body was accompanied by his wife, Dr Joe Okei-Odumakin, his immediate elder brother, Ayo, family members, and many rights activists; all dressed in black T-shirts bearing the portrait and name of the deceased. Others at the event to pay their last respect during the lying-in-state was the wife of the deceased supported by the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria President, Bishop Wale Oke and other colleagues of the late Odumakin. In his sermon during the three hour burial service that ended with graveside rites at the residence of the deceased, Oke said the late rights’ activist lived a life of service. Reading from the book of Luke 23: verses 39 to 43, the clergy said apart from living a life of service, Odumakin also ended well by staying true to his Christian faith. He urged the wife, family and associates of the deceased to stay strong and keep all his ideas alive. With good music and words of exhortation, the burial service was no less lively, but for the presence of the body laid in a transparent casket positioned at the right hand side of the marquee that served as the venue of the event. Emotion however ran high when people gave tributes in honour of the late Odumakin, extolling his attributes of fearlessness and dedication to the course of the Yoruba race. Leading the long list of eminent Nigerians that paid tributes was the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, who spoke through Sooko Kemade Elugbaju. Oba Ogunwusi announced naming of Ife-Moro road after the late Odumakin, saying the road would henceforth be known as Olayinka Odumakin Boulevard. The royal father added that an ultra modern garden had been named in Odumakin’s honour in his privately owned students’ village in the Obafemi Awolowo University where a dignified bronze bust will be unveiled in the honour of the departed. Yinka left legacy of speaking true to power, says Fayemi In his tributes, Governor Fayemi described the late Odumakin as a democrat and a nationalist, who was unapologetic about the Yoruba agenda. Governor Makinde in his tributes said the late Odumakin lived a short, but a well spent life and noted how he interacted with the Afenifere spokesperson when he joined partisan politics and started relating to the Yoruba socio cultural group. Osun State Governor, Oyetola said Odumakin’s trajectory through life, whether as an impressionable undergraduate activist in Ife, a purposeful columnist, a fiery anti-dictatorship combatant, a vociferous Afenifere scribe, or his political involvement, read like a profile in courage. In his emotion laden tributes, Afenifere leader, Adebanjo, who was helped to the stage by many chieftains of the group, queried the death that would leave him at 93 years of age and killed a 53-year old Odumakin. He said the late Odumakin displayed uncommon courage, sincerity, adding that it was hard to come by consistency with which he defended the interest of the Yoruba race. Intermittently closing her eyes to fight off swelling tears, wife of the deceased, in her tributes, recalled how her husband took ill in Osogbo on Sunday, December 8, 2020, two days to his 54th birthday, and bled overnight, losing as much of 16 pint of blood. She said despite his condition but having received five pint of blood, late Odumakin requested to be released to meet Pa Adebanjo in Lagos. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com