The presidential candidate of Peoples Trust in 2019, Mr Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim, on Wednesday warned that the death of Idris Deby of Chad can worsen the security challenges being witnessed in parts of Nigeria. He said the death was capable of further escalating the security situation particularly in the North East and North West. Olawepo-Hashim said this in an interview with journalists in Abuja. He said the sad event should be of concern to Nigeria’s policy experts. He said, “The death of Marshal Idris Deby, until yesterday (Tuesday) President of Chad, is undoubtedly a setback for Nigeria’s national security. “Deby has been the buffer for Nigeria’s fight against multiple forces of insurgencies in the Lake Chad region. “Nigeria’s policy experts must of necessity, be very worried now. “Since the strategic mistake of the overthrow of Gaddafi by some western forces who brought together a motley crowd of Islamists in 2010 and waged war against Libya, the security situation in the Sahel Region has rapidly deteriorated. “What was clear was that a balance of forces as a result of imported high-grade equipment of war and communication and training have tilted things in support of non-state actors opposed to the various states and governments of the Sahel region.” Olawepo-Hashim said the worst that knowledgeable African Heads of State feared have come to the Sahel as the forces of destruction unleashed on Libya continued to sweep through all the states of the Sahel and West Africa as a whole and to Central Africa. He said Nigeria, Chad, Niger, Cameroon and Burkina Faso were paying for the tragedy of 2010 in form of severe insecurity caused by non-state actors who were better trained and better armed. He added, “Whatever the internal politics in Chad is, Nigeria’s concern must be our national interest. “This is standard international relations. Since the treaty of Westphalia in 1641, national security is the primary interest of states. “Deby’s death has the potential to complicate things for Nigeria in the North-East and North-West. “Whatever the inadequacies of Idris Deby, he died a true African hero; a courageous African. Many times, he launched attack from Chad to confront the extremist forces operating in the North-East. He made no noise about it and he claimed no credit. He was a true friend and ally of Nigeria. “For now, it is time to put on our best thinking cap. It is no longer the time for mediocrity.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com