There have been mixed reactions on the Nigerian Twitter space since the news broke about the arrest of popular Yoruba movie comic actor, Olarenwaju James popularly known as Baba Ijesha, for defiling a 14-year-old girl. According to the Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, the actor started sexually assaulting the victim, since she was seven years old. The actor has confessed to the crime and he was also captured by a CCTV camera in the house of the complainant. Nigerians have taken to several social media platform to express shock over the news. They have also urged the police to handle the case speedily. The Chief Press Secretary to the Lagos State Governor, Gboyega Akosile, via his personal Twitter account @gboyegaakosile, said that this ‘is not a good news,” He Tweeted, “This is not a good news out of the Lagos State @PoliceNG Command, which announced the arrest of popular Nollywood actor, Olarenwaju James aka Baba Ijesha, for allegedly defiling a minor. He has confessed to the crime. A CCTV captured him in complainant’s house.”(sic) The Twitter user, @OSodamo noted that the actor is seen as a role model in society. He tweeted, “Funke! Ayemi temi bami! What’s this world turning to how can a whole baba ijesha do this…. someone we see as a role model… I hope this isn’t real.”(sic) Another Twitter user, Darrey Smuse with the handle @DarreySmuse, tweeted, “This Baba Ijesha mad gan oo… How can someone rape a minor for SEVEN YEARS?’(sic) Suleiman Tajudeen via his handle @Tjslyy wrote, “Hah! Baba Ijesha why now!! Justice must take its course sha…painful.” Adebayofemi_ via his Instagram handle noted that no one can be trusted any more. He wrote, “Ah!, omaaawaagaa o.. No one to trust again,”(sic) An Instagram user with the handle Remi_salaudeen while reacting to the news wrote, “Well, let us be briefed on the matter as the investigation continues. I am baffled.” Also reacting to the news, an Instagram user, Engineer_rayn, stated that the actor should be castrated for his action even though he likes his films
.
“If it is true let them castrate him, we don’t care if he is an actor, in as much as I like his movie, I hate rapist and for that a minor,” he wrote.