FARMERS in Uegwere Boue community in the Khana Local Government Area of Rivers State have raised the alarm over what they termed incessant attacks and killings on their farms by gunmen, saying they can no longer access their crops. The farmers, all women, in an early morning prayer session in the community town hall on Wednesday, accused an ex-Niger Delta agitator, Solomon Ndigbara, of masterminding the continued attacks on their farmlands. The former chairman, Community Development Committee of Uegwere Boue community, Godspower Ipianeh, said the women were now helpless as they could no longer go to their farms over fear of being killed by gunmen loyal to the ex-agitator. Ipianeh said while the ex-agitator hailed from Yeghe community in Gokana LGA, “Uegwere Boue was in Khana LGA and there is no reason for women to be repeatedly attacked on their farmlands in Joro, Deme-or, Demekue, Gugurunall, Wiibori, Orkuego, Yerenwiri, Labor and Gaagaa, all in Khana LGAs.” He said they had written to the Police and the Department of State Services, the Nigerian Army, as well as the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps in the state, adding that that there had been no intervention so far. “We are appealing to the Federal Government, the Rivers State Government and the Defence Headquarters to come to our aid as a matter of urgency because we are living in fear. “Within a fortnight, seven persons have been killed on their farms, including a young man who escorted his mother to the farm. The corpse of one of the victims was recovered by operatives of the Bori Divisonal Police,” the CDC chairman added. Speaking, mother of a deceased young man, Mrs. I-awa Atornu-Tor, said, “On the 27th of December 2020, my son and I were attacked in the farm. My son was shot dead in my presence.” Another victim, Mrs Asawa Adoobe, said she was assaulted, stripped and beaten to a pulp after her cassava was uprooted by the hoodlums. But speaking on Rhythm 93.7 FM news monitored by our correspondent, the ex-Niger Delta agitator, Solomon Ndigbara, denied the allegation, adding that the two communities did things together, including farming. He said, “I don’t have a farm in that place (Uegwere). In my community (Yeghe), we don’t have cult groups that will from here go to attack any other community.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com