Ogun State Government has said it is willing to collaborate with Indonesia to develop the state’s seaport, airport, housing, and other sectors of its economy. The state government also said it would set up an economic team to liaise with Indonesian investors in exploring areas of interests that would be mutually beneficial to both the state and the Pacific nation. The state governor, Dapo Abiodun, gave this hint when he hosted the Indonesian Ambassador to Nigeria, Dr Usra Harahap, in his office at Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta on Friday. Abiodun noted that Indonesia had made tremendous progress in the areas of technology, infrastructure, housing, transportation and medicine, expressing the state’s interest. The governor said, “Ogun has more than enough land to accommodate a lot of industries. We are desirous of building a seaport because the deepest part of water in the country is in our state. “We will be willing to collaborate with Indonesia to develop seaport, airport, housing, and other sectors. We look forward to seeing how the state and Indonesia can work together to actualise all these.” He informed the Indonesian delegation that Ogun had more than 12, 000 square kilometres of arable land suitable for the cultivation of food and cash crops, adding that the state had the highest palm oil plantations which the Indonesian investors could leverage on. On transportation, Abiodun said his administration was adopting a multi-dimensional transportation system that would help in fast-tracking the economy of the state. He expressed his hopes that Indonesia, with its feat in the sector, would work with the state to achieve its transportation objectives. While assuring conducive environment for investments, the governor added that the state put in place what investors needed in terms of ease of doing business and availability of adequate manpower. Abiodun said the state was working towards providing adequate electricity in all its industrial clusters, and invited Indonesian companies and investors from other parts of the world to come and explore potential in the state. Harahap said his country had a lot of interesting information on the state and was ready to do business with Ogun. He said Indonesia was ready to invest in modern railway and would collaborate with the state in developing its cargo airport. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com