The Institute of Directors Nigeria, on Monday, broke ground on a N10bn house project, expected to be completed within the next 36 months. The IoD House project is a proposed 15-storey edifice to be located in Ikoyi, Lagos State. “It is an unparalleled residential and office project that will become the corporate headquarters of the Institute of Directors Nigeria by the grace of God, within the next 36 months,” its President and Chairman of Governing Council, Chief Chris Okunowo, said at the ground-breaking ceremony. Okunowo described the ceremony as a climax of many years of dreams and activities by past leaders of the institute, for the creation of a befitting edifice to be the permanent home for the institute. He said, “We have made great sacrifices as members by committing personal and official resources to provide for this great institute the opportunity to not only acquire this property in the heart of Ikoyi, but also to ensure the realisation of this dream. He recalled that the quest for a befitting edifice for the institute started from the former headquarters where they had made plans to erect a modest eight-storey building. “This was before we received an offer of a land swap, which unfortunately took us on a journey of almost four years before the final decision to settle for this property at 8 Temple Road, Ikoyi, where the IoD House finally berthed,” Okunowo said. He said the new journey for the IoD House started on August 28, 2018, when Transcorp Hotels Plc and IoD Nigeria completed the land swap agreement, with Transcorp handing over 8 Temple Road, Ikoyi, to IoD Nigeria. “Our institute in turn, in September 2018, released our property at 54 Glover Road, Ikoyi to the company. These twin events became the watershed in the history of this project and commenced the realisation of our dreams,” he said. Okunowo said the institute had received the necessary approvals from government and satisfied all regulatory provisions. He added that the project estimated to cost the N10bn would be financed through donations, equity and loan (with loan being a last resort). Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com