Twelve power plants in Nigeria could not generate 1,609.9 megawatts of their total installed capacity on Sunday as a result of gas constraints. The total unutilised electricity generation capacity in the country stood at 2,242.1MW as of 6am on Sunday, with low load demand by the distribution companies, water management and line constraints stalling the generation of 632.2MW. READ ALSO: Why Appeal Court barred VIO from demanding private vehicles’ roadworthiness certificate — Lawyer The power plants affected by gas constraints included Omotosho I, Olorunsogo I, Omoku, Afam VI, Omotosho NIPP, Trans-Amadi and Sapele NIPP. Others were Geregu NIPP, Olorunsogo NIPP, Egbin, Rivers IPP, and Geregu I, according to data obtained from the Nigerian Electricity System Operator. The NESO data also showed that the plants on the national grid produced 4,358.9MW as of 6am on Sunday, down from 4,660.1MW on Saturday. Egbin, the nation’s biggest power plant, saw its output decline to 712MW as of 6am on Sunday from 832MW on Saturday. Ten plants, including six plants built under the National Integrated Power Project, did not produce any megawatts of electricity as of 6am on Sunday. The idle plants were Sapele NIPP, Alaoji NIPP, Olorunsogo NIPP, Omotosho NIPP, Ihovbor, Gbarain, Ibom Power, AES, ASCO and Egbin ST6. The country generates the bulk of its electricity from gas-fired power plants, while output from hydropower plants makes up about 30 per cent of total generation. The hydropower plants are Kainji, Jebba, Shiroro and Dadin Kowa. The Nigerian Gas Association and other stakeholders said recently that the liquidity issues hampering returns from the power sector should be speedily resolved to address legacy debts and facilitate full recovery of gas revenues from the Nigerian electricity supply industry. The Minister of Power, Sale Mamman, announced on April 15 the breakdown of some power plants, including Sapele, Afam, Olorunsogo, Omotosho, Ibom, Egbin, Alaoji and Ihovbor. The minister said the Jebba Power Plant was shut down for annual maintenance. He said seven plants, namely, Geregu, Sepele, Omotosho, Gbarain, Omoku, Paras and Alaoji were experiencing gas constraints, while Shiroro plant had water management problems. The ministry said at the time that the unfortunate development had drastically affected power generation, thus effectively minimising the national grid. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com