A number of Nigerian celebrities have voiced their displeasure over the alleged report that Nollywood actor, Olarenwaju James, aka Baba Ijesha, had molested a 14-year-old girl under the care of popular comedienne, Princess. Radio personality and actress, Toke Makinwa, had strong words for those who did not outrightly condemn the act. She said, “Stop shaming victims of abuse. Stop trying to analytically understand their statements. You clearly heard the child was failing in school, her brothers complained of a change in her behaviour pattern; you think they made all that up? You must be sick too. “The world is full of sick people. I once heard a grown man comment on how fresh a three-year-old’s bum was. He casually just blurted out ‘see as this baby’s bum bum fresh’. I cursed him out and guess what? People around thought I was exaggerating; like it’s just a compliment.”(sic) The comedienne, Lepacious Bose, wrote on Instagram, “I said it in my post yesterday and I repeat, if you are asking for a video of a 14-year-old being sexually molested, then you are as sick as the accused. All you want is an excuse to watch child porn and God forbid that it is this case you will use to achieve your sick desires! “Pls just leave this woman to grieve in peace. This is not a clout chasing opportunity, it is not a popularity contest. The life and future of a 14-year-old is involved, pls let’s be guided with our words. “If you are one of the few that feel her pain, pls pray for Princess; pray for her family, pray for this dear child that has been bruised. Sometimes, that’s the only thing; and the best thing to do, pray for Princess!” Nollywood actress, Mercy Aigbe, posted on Instagram that she is ‘beyond livid’. In her words, “Justice must be served! Baba Ijesha must be brought to book! “I just got off the phone with Princess and I am even more upset! May God punish all those supporting Ijesha! May y’all never see anything good in your miserable lives! Whether y’all like it or not, justice will prevail! God pls protect our kids, and keep exposing these criminals! Too many animals out there!”(sic) Radio personality, Toolz, tweeted, “All the people wanting to see this video of the young girl and Baba Ijesha, you know you’re essentially asking to see child porn, right?” Nollywood actress, Nkechi Blessing, commented on the incident via her Instagram. She said, “Most importantly, have a heart to heart talk with your kids, listen to their every need. It’s high time parents stop leaving their kids in the hands of strangers… If CCTV too cost, use your eye as the camera that watches the child that you carried for nine months.
“Does labour pain mean anything to you at all? I fit no get sense ooo, I fit no sabi talk ooo,I fit rude and razz oo, but pls take this advice and do the needful. May such never happen to any one of you in Jesus name. The thoughts alone are traumatizing.” (sic) Afropop musician, Davido, tweeted a photo of Nollywood actor, Yomi Fabiyi, with the caption “Bitch it’s on sight.” Yomi Fabiyi had earlier expressed solidarity for Baba Ijesha, and as a result, drew the wrath of many social media users and celebrities, including Toke Makinwa and Iyabo Ojo. The allegation against 48-year-old Baba Ijesha has caused many Nigerians to call for his immediate prosecution. The PUNCH reported earlier that Baba Ijesha was arrested on Thursday after a report by one Adekola Adekanya at the Sabo police station. According to the Police, the suspect confessed to the crime and was also captured by a CCTV camera in the house of the complainant. The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, Mr Hakeem Odumosu, ordered for proper investigation and promised to do justice in the matter. Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, had disclosed that the actor sexually assaulted the teenager when she was seven years old.