Popular Nollywood actors, Iyabo Ojo and Yomi Fabiyi, have taken to their respective Instagram accounts to throw jabs at each other over the defilement of a teenager by their peer, Baba Ijesha. Both actors are trending on the Nigerian Twitter space. While Iyabo is trending at the number one spot with over 7,500 tweets, Yomi Fabiyi is trending at number seven with over 2,000 tweets. Fabiyi, who first made a comment, shared a cryptic message, urging his colleagues not to be in a hurry to crucify Baba Ijesha. He added that before they castigate their colleague, they should ensure that law enforcement officers have done their investigation. He wrote, “There is no dignity fighting whoever is on the floor. The only time you see any colleague come out to cast aspersions on a falling colleague or any in crisis or on trial, is because they believe nobody can do anything for them, se ranti Oluwa nbe (remember God). “I am an African and a vanguard of human rights, fairness and justice; and no evil plot or device can define me differently. I don’t support evil or crimes against children and women, but I always activate my common sense and conscience in all matters. “Sometimes common sense and caution are needed more, irrespective of one’s personality and principle to serious issues or whatever you know. I am not going to be a part of a bad antecedent. If my words come ambiguous, seek understanding before rushing to hurt your colleague online, too low and dirty.” The actor stressed that instead of trading blames, people should ensure that the mental health of the victim and her parents are taken into consideration. “I will continue to fight for what is right and I will never condone anyone reading negative meaning or isolate my words just to give a dog a bad name and subject to cyberbullying. Gbogbo wa ni isowo ogun oh. “However, we all must be united on the bigger picture and the serious issue at hand. Focus to be hugely on the mental health of the minor and her guardians and not to twist words or engage in needless drama or distractions. Count me out of social media or industry beef or recklessness. “Fair trial, protection of human rights, and justice are crucial for the public to be on the right path. Seek every protection for children and minors around you. Say no to rape, say no to sexual harassment, say no to child abuse.” Ace actress, Iyabo Ojo, felt the message was directed at her so she responded to Fabiyi. She revealed that they had discussed privately via WhatsApp, but since Fabiyi wanted to bring the matter to Instagram, she was up for the task. She said, “Yomi Fabiyi, I know we have settled this on WhatsApp, but since you posted this on your IG page, shading me indirectly, lets kuku drag ourselves here because I have been getting a lot of tags from this your post. Do you want us to drag it here on IG too? Because it can’t be me you are referring to as too low and dirty. Ko le je Iyabo temi lailai, iwo ati tani Yomi? (meaning: It can’t be I, Iyabo, you are referring to. What would warrant such you, Yomi?) “Moreover, which colleague is being hurt online? Is it you or Baba Ijesha? Yomi, if you want to fight for what is right, go to Panti Police station and seek the truth or call Princess. I am the wrongest person you will want to go down this lane with, to ri pe igi imu ji na si ori o Yomi (meaning: because we are not mates, Yomi)… If a dog has a bad name, I will give it a bad name with my full chest. E ma je ki ama pon jebe la kisa (meaning: do not let us encourage what is bad). Yomi be guided.” Countering Ojo’s statement, Fabiyi said that the actress should allow the court to decide if Baba Ijesha was guilty. He further mentioned that many people are not privy to the CCTV video or the suspect’s confession. He said, “Iyabo Ojo, even when you shaded me on your malicious video, I chose not to join issues with you. I took it to you directly. And again, is the igi imu between you and Baba Ijesha, because that definitely can’t be me, aso te ba ri ni ara egungun mi tee gun mi loun se (I enjoy every help my God gives me). I am too refined and careful in my life to jump to conclusions. “You can come online to attack your colleague accused of such a serious crime, that is your background. If then asked to wait and allow for a full investigation or see a confession from the suspect or a leaked video before commenting, then any cultured adult should respect that and not twist my words or isolate some comments to exhibit their evil and age-long social media witchcraft. “It is a personal principle of caution acceptable anywhere in the world. Even the judge that may still rule on the case will still hear the suspect’s angle before drawing a conclusion. I will never support any crime as rape and I don’t need you to patronise me on that. I have no such record and don’t use social media to give me a bad name. “I am never going to be in competition with anybody. Any suspect deserves the honour of a fair hearing before I conclude, how much more a colleague. Even if you have seen the evidence, respect the opinion of those that haven’t seen it and don’t misjudge. You are not God.”