Twitter co-founder, Jack Dorsey, revealed on Friday that he has no plans to relocate to Accra yet though the social networking service has set up its African office in Ghana. According to Ghana Web, Ghanaian Communications Minister, Ursula Owusu-Ekuful, had disclosed that Jack is expected to relocate Accra in June 2021. “Jack will be based in Accra, so this will be his base while he visits the other countries on the continent and I am hoping that his friends would also follow him and see what he finds so special about Accra,” Ghana Web quoted the minister as saying. A tweep, @asaaseradio995, subsequently tweeted, “Jack Dorsey is expected to relocate to Ghana in June as Twitter sets up its African headquarters in Accra.” But replying via his official handle, @jack, the Twitter CEO wrote, “No plans yet! But def(initely) going to at some point.” Nigerians had taken to social media to make their opinions known earlier in April when Jack announced his decision to make Ghana its African headquarters, snubbing Nigeria despite the fact that millions of Nigerians use his platform. Nigerian Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, had also blamed unpatriotic Nigerians for being the reason why Jack took the decision but opposition Peoples Democratic Party slammed the ruling All Progressives Congress for not providing an enabling environment for flow of foreign direct investment. The PUNCH reports that the regime of the Nigerian President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has in recent time sought stiffer penalties for persons who “misuse social media”. The Senate is currently deliberating on Protection from Internet Falsehood and Manipulations Bill 2019 commonly known as the anti-social media bill. It seeks to criminalise the use of the social media in peddling false or malicious information. It was sponsored by Senator Mohammed Musa, a member of the President’s party, the All Progressives Congress. Another member of the President’s party, Adamu Garba, had last year sued Twitter for supporting the #EndSARS protests but he later withdrew the case.