“Every nation has a period of its own challenges. When Americans were challenged, they turned to one great man, their ex-military General Eisenhower…when the French were challenged, they turned to their General Charles de Gaulle. When Britain was challenged, they turned to their great General Winston Churchill. Today, Nigeria is challenged. Economically challenged. Physically challenged. Who do we turn to? General Muhammadu Buhari. He is the right man for the job. If you talk of military experience, he has it abundantly. If you talk of courage, he has it abundantly…” – Bola Ahmed Tinubu in 2015 Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu was not a lone voice that sang a rodomontade lullaby about candidate Muhammadu Buhari during the 2015 elections. Many prominent Nigerians from all regions did. Buhari was projected as the  man more than mere mortal. He was presented to the world as the man with the magic wand who would engineer a radical reformation and restoration of Nigeria’s vanishing glory. He was sold to hesitant buyers as the messiah Nigerians had been waiting for; and without whom they can do nothing. Those sweet words spoken by Asiwaju Tinubu during the electioneering coerced many to join the Buhari train. I fell into that trap too.  Those words, now determined to be empty rhetoric and packaged garbage, jostled many hearts into hoping that at last, Nigeria’s best days had come. About six years into the Buhari presidency and two years to the end of his reign, a rain of generalised discomfort has bedraggled and waterlogged the entirety of the Nigerian nation. Every nook and cranny in the legal territory of the giant of Africa is spewing out copious blood of innocent Nigerians. Terrorists from foreign lands in cruel collusion with faceless homegrown affluential bandits are hoisting their flags in villages not too far from where Buhari lives as President over a hapless people. Governors are taking to their heels after being pursued by killers in bushes. Kidnappings here-and-there; murders here-and-there; prison breaks here-and-there; killings of law enforcement agents here-and-there; and the dastardly acts are not sparing even our Holy places.  In Zamfara State, gunmen took captive over three hundred schoolgirls free-and-easy with none able to stop them. In December last year, 80 students were yanked off their classrooms in Buhari’s home state of Katsina. Hell-men herdsmen audaciously steal, kill, and maim as adversity sweeps across every facet of life and living in Nigeria. Poor and hungry Nigerians are stuck with the metastatic misfortune. Where can they run to? In the last two weeks, I have received numerous phone calls from men and women with means, money, might and muscle seeking counsel as to how they can escape the mass misery in Nigeria and head abroad somewhere, anywhere, with their families. The bests of our nation are daily lost to other nations because the terrain at home is agonising. This is heart-wrenching. Government after government are issuing travel advisories to their citizens regarding trips to Nigeria. The Canadian government is urging her people to avoid non-essential travels to Nigeria due to the unpredictable security situation throughout the country and the significant risk of terrorism, crime, inter-communal clashes, armed attacks and kidnappings. The US consulate in Nigeria has issued out the same caution to Americans taking a trip to the country. Intelligence fusion with partners like the US, the UK, and France has not yielded positive results. The United Kingdom just confessed that partnership with Nigeria cannot resolve the security entanglement. “The situation is massively complex and no partnership is going to resolve the multiplicity of problems,” the British Minister for Africa, James Duddridge, said in Abuja. If someone asked Jagaban Tinubu today what happened to the Buhari he packaged and sold to us like candy back in 2015, what will be his answer? Did he deliberately package garbage or the package became garbage because of the garbage he inherited? If this becomes a debate, it will last forever. Where are the applauding adherents and acolytes who in deception padded up the retired General’s resume or curriculum vitae? With his action and inaction over the last five years, it is now proved beyond all reasonable doubt that in 2015, Buhari’s resume might have been deceptively bloated and perversely padded. Is General Buhari anywhere near where we were told he was in military acumen? Who would have thought a time like this will ever come under a president with self-acclaimed bragging right in security and military matters? Who would have imagined a season like this would ever come that Nigeria’s once fairly-formidable security network would now become loose and languorous and torn into shreds and absolute smithereens by rickety gatherings of foreign terrorists? Who would have thought that a time like this would ever come that our security apparatuses, mostly and heavily controlled by Buhari’s cronies exclusively from the North would watch strangers take out their own people so easily and wantonly? Who would have thought a day like this would come that these security personalities watch and fold their hands as their own turfs are being rattled and dazzled by mayhem from miscreants? Well, it has! And it is sad and disheartening.  Buhari, a man who became an avatar whose words were indubitable, is now a president Nigerian can’t wait to bid bye-bye.  He and his APC groupie doled out promises about keeping Nigerians safe. Now we have found out they were all fantasies and illusions. A tested leader is a true leader. The test of the authentic acumen of a man is when he becomes the leader of a people and the champion of an effort. And the test of leadership does not occur only when life is peachy; when tranquility is palpable; or when prosperity spurts and flourishes. True test of leadership comes in times of crisis. That season of life showcases what a man has in his heart and head. How they navigate through the crunchy Dunkirk becomes a peremptory testament to his accomplishments. This is a time of crisis in Nigeria.  Friends, Buhari has failed Nigerians. It is true that Buhari got a few things right in infrastructure rebuild. He has done well. But only the living ride the luxurious train and travel on massive expressways. Nigerians today live on the edge as our economy tanks and lives of Nigerians slough off into the abyss. Whatever are the achievements of Buhari have been rubbished and flooded off into the incinerator of history. He has turned his deafest ear to the agonising complaints of the people he swore to serve. People around Buhari are sickened by ills and afflictions befalling Nigeria. But they will never tell him the truth. Toadies don’t tell the truth to their benefactors. Publicly, they garniture them with rousing rococo of exhortation and praises that are not in agreement with truth they know; and that must be told. Privately, they moan and then morph into cacophonic miserere.  Nigerians are counting days right now and can’t wait for this General to round off his reign. Who ever thought times like this would come under Buhari? Not me. The kitchen seems infernally and intolerably too hot for Mr. President. He should consider heading out of the kitchen. Nigeria must not go under waters. It is the only country 200 million people know and acknowledge as home. I rest my case. – Follow me @ folaojotweet Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com