Sequel to the promotion of senior officers, the Corps Marshal, Federal Road Safety Corps, Dr Boboye Oyeyemi, has approved the redeployment of Deputy Corps Marshals, Assistant Corps Marshals, Corps Commanders, Deputy Corps Commanders and intermediate ranks. They are all expected to report to their new commands with immediate effect. A statement on Wednesday by the Corps Education Officer, Bisi Kazeem, said the redeployment was intended to “bolster the system for superior performance and efficiency.” It said Deputy Corps Marshal HZ Fomsuk, former DCM Special Duties and External Relations will now take over as DCM in charge of the Department of Motor Vehicle Administration at the national headquarters, Abuja, while DCM Victor Nwokolo, the outgoing Zonal Commanding Officer RS8HQ Ilorin, would take over as the Head of Policy, Research and Statistics Department also at the national headquarters. ACM Kayode Olagunju PhD, former Zonal Commanding Officer, RS4HQ Jos, will proceed to Enugu as the Commandant, FRSC Academy, Udi, while ACM Kingsley Agomoh, the erstwhile Zonal Commanding Officer, RS6HQ Port Harcourt, moves to the Corps Project Implementation office. ACM AB Datzama takes over the helm of affairs in the Department of Special Duties and External Relations and ACM M Adetunji, the Deputy Corps Secretary, becomes ACM Personnel at the national headquarters. Kazeem further said ACM S. Iyamah, who is currently heading the Corps Budget Office, as well as ACM RT Kumven heading the Corps Safety Engineering Office are to retain their positions; ACM EN Obot, the erstwhile Corps Commander in charge of Policy Advisory Unit under the office of the Corps Marshal, moves to Command Administration and Strategies at the Operations Department RSHQ, as ACM MR Yerima transits from CC Research to ACM Manpower Development. Apart from Jos Kaduna, Ilorin, Benin , Port Harcourt and Jos Zonal Commands, all other Zonal Commanding Officers are to remain in their respective commands. The statement read, “Expectedly, out of the 37 Sector Commands, 27 Sector Commanders retained their positions while the remaining 10 states were affected. “Those posted to the affected sector commands include, Corps Commanders Okoyeocha Patrick, Delta State; Iro Danladi, Zamfara State; IU Boyi, Anambra State; JS Udoabba, Enugu State; OS Ochi, FCT; AK Okore, Ebonyi; PI Ugwu, Abia; UA Ibrahim, Bayelsa; OI Ameh, Cross River and MO Olonisaye, Akwa Ibom.”