Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, has imposed night time curfew on all entry and exit points with Abia, Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa and Imo states. Wike in a broadcast on Tuesday said the curfew which took effect from Wednesday was necessitated by security breaches and deadly attacks on security personnel by gunmen. The governor said no vehicle would be allowed into and out of Rivers State from 8pm to 6am from April 28, 2021 until further notice. Wike broadcast was relayed in a statement by his Special Assistant on Media, Kelvin Ebiri. The statement reads partly, “The Government of Rivers State has decided to restrict night movements in and out of the state from the land borders. Consequently, a night curfew is hereby imposed and no person or vehicle is allowed into and out of Rivers State from 8pm to 6am from tomorrow (Wednesday) 28 April 2021 until further notice. “We wish to advise that those who have any legitimate need or reason to come into or go out of the state must do so before 8pm when the curfew shall come into force daily.” The governor recalled that on Saturday, some officers of the Customs, police and civil defence services were ambushed and murdered along the Port Harcourt -Owerri. He added that there was another attack on the state on Sunday when officers and men of the Nigerian Army were killed in Abua town in the Abua Odual Local Government Area. The governor said nobody knew where and when the next attack would take place. He added, “However, what is obvious is that the attackers and their sponsors are people who came from outside Rivers State, and as a government, we are determined to do everything within our powers to prevent the recurrence of such senseless and murderous acts aimed at creating an atmosphere of gross insecurity and panic among the citizens.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com