The Queen Elizabeth II of England has honoured the biggest sex toy company in the United Kingdom, Lovehoney, with an ‘Award for Enterprise’ for ‘outstanding continuous growth’ over the last six years. The firm’s overseas sales grew by 365 per cent to £56m from £12m in 2015. According to metro.co.uk, the award will allow the company to use the Queen’s Award emblem in advertising, marketing and on packaging for five years, and is considered a symbol of quality and success. The Chief Commercial Officer, Lovehoney, Debbie Bond, said, “We are thrilled to have received official recognition from the Queen. Her Majesty has been a wonderful supporter of Lovehoney as we have grown into being the world’s leading sexual wellness brand. “Royal patronage will help us to create more jobs at our Bath headquarters and in our international offices and spread the sexual happiness message globally. The Queen is the UK’s greatest trade ambassador and royal approval shows, again, how mainstream shoppers and retail outlets are embracing sexual wellness products as never before and appreciating their importance in improving overall well-being – a particularly important message as we come out of lockdown after a stressful year living with the pandemic.” The award has been described as ‘the highest accolade for business success’. This is the second time the retailer has received a Queen’s Award, after being given the International Trade accolade five years ago. The winners ― including Lovehoney founders, Richard Longhurst and Neal Slateford ― joined the Queen and Prince Philip at a garden party at Buckingham Palace. Lovehoney is the UK’s biggest online adult retailer. After first launching from Mr Longhurst’s bedroom, it now has eight other websites globally, including the US, Australia, France, Germany, Spain, EU, Canada and New Zealand. Bond added that the company has a customer base of 2.2 million people and 300 people staff. An advertisement from the company in 2013 became the first-ever commercial to say ‘sex toys’ on British television. The official rights given to it to make all Fifty Shades of Grey pleasure products boosted its global expansion. The company has created several ranges with E. L. James, author of the trilogy, including new collections to celebrate the books’ 10th birthday this year.