An eight-year-old boy identified only as Destiny is on the wrong track of becoming a miscreant except timely intervention comes his way. Violent crimes beckon on him every day in the Jakande, Lekki area of Lagos. Reportedly abandoned by his mother about three years ago and stripped of fatherly care, Destiny resides with a poor widow in a ramshackle apartment on Block 390, Jakande Housing Estate. He is just eight years and eight months old but with his hard looks, he easily passes for a teenager. Clad in grey denim, a worn-out cardigan almost robbed of its blue colour and a pair of tattered slippers, Destiny was roaming the streets when our correspondent and a resident, who had earlier told of his waywardness, ran into him. “I always see him on the streets up till around 10pm or 11pm in the night,” the resident, Sunday Mafor, told Sunday PUNCH. Mafor said his first encounter with Destiny was about four months back when he saw some security men in the community beating Destiny for wandering around at night. He stated, “After that incident, I saw him again during the day time being beaten by a group of people. They said he was sent on an errand and he spent the money. When I asked him why he spent the money, he said he was hungry. They also accuse him of going to houses to steal money and food. Since then, I have been making efforts to make sure he is out of the streets. “I followed him to where he lives with a guardian. The woman told me that his mother left him a long time ago and they could not find her. She said she was tired of taking care of him. He is not going to school. Last month, I took him to a government welfare centre in Jakande, beside LASTMA office. They told me the home was full and they could not accommodate him.’’ Sunday PUNCH learnt that Destiny was exposed to the harsh life five years ago when a building where he lived with his mother, one Favour, was demolished. They squatted with a neighbour but after some months, Favour was said to have relocated from the community and handed over Destiny to the guardian, Mrs Abimbola Ige. “My guardian said I should not live with her again but I don’t know where my parents are,” Destiny disclosed faintly in a chat with our correspondent. “I want to go to school.” He responded in affirmative when asked if it is true that he steals money and food. “It is some brothers around us who tell me to go and steal money and they will collect it from me. I don’t know their names,” he added, bluntly in Yoruba. The sight of the guardian’s apartment gives a picture of poverty in the old apartment deprived of plastering. The 52-year-old widow narrated the hard times she went through to fend for her children and Destiny since his mother abandoned him three years ago. She said, “His mother and I used to live in the same compound in Jakande Estate before the building was demolished about five years ago. I got another apartment but she and Destiny squatted with a man. She left the man’s house and begged me to allow her son stay with me. She stopped checking on him about three years ago. My husband died two years ago and as a widow with three children living with me, it is tough for me to cater for them, including Destiny. I managed to feed them with the little I have. One of my six children works somewhere as a home help and she lives there.” The widow explained that she took Destiny to Gbara, a neighbouring community, to learn mechanic work but his boss sent him away some months later because he stole money in a car one customer brought for repair. Ige said sometime last year, she visited a hotel in Igbo Efon, Ajah, when she got wind of Favour’s presence at the facility and that she uses a pseudonym. When contacted on the telephone, Favour, denied using a pseudonym at the hotel and abandoning her child. She said the left Jakande community out of frustration and had been struggling to raise money to rent an apartment where she could settle with Destiny. Favour stated, “It is not up to three years I last saw him; it was a year and eight months. I rented an apartment in that community but the building was demolished. I didn’t have money to rent a new apartment. “My children and I were squatting with someone but I left there out of frustration. I will try and pick him by month’s end. I can’t allow him to go to an orphanage. My problem is just accommodation and God will do it. Destiny will be nine years on August 12. I don’t have any other child apart from him. Why will I abandon him?” Asked about Destiny’s father, she said they were no longer together and was angry with him. She declined further queries on whether the man had been sending money for Destiny’s upkeep. “Forget about the father,” she said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com