The Ogun State Police Command has announced the dismissal from service of the three policemen, who were involved in the forceful extortion of N153,000  from one Sheriff Adedigba. The affected cops, Inspector Sunday John, Sergeant Jimoh Asimiya and Sergeant Solomon Adedapo, were alleged to have forcefully extorted the amount from the victim, while he was travelling from Abeokuta to Lagos. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this in a statement on Tuesday. Oyeyemi said, “Having heard about the incident on social media, the Commissioner of Police, Edward Ajogun, ordered the immediate arrest and detention of the officers involved in the dastardly act. “The three policemen were quickly identified and apprehended. The money was recovered from them and returned to the victim. “They were subsequently arranged for departmental orderly room trial on three counts of corrupt practices, discreditable conduct and disobedience of lawful order. “They were found guilty of all the charges and subsequently dismissed from the force to serve as a deterrent to others in their shoes. “The victim, who was also present to give evidence, was full of praise to the Commissioner of Police and the management team for their prompt response to the incident, which he said rekindled his hope in the Nigeria Police Force.” The PPRO added that Ajogun appealed to members of the public to always endeavour to report any act of misconduct from any operative of the command to him personally, or through any of the principal officers and that such would be treated with utmost urgency. He also warned personnel to desist from any act capable of tarnishing the image of the command, adding that such would not be condoned. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com