Immediate-past Senate President, Bukola Saraki, says the worsening security in the country has overwhelmed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), adding that the President and his All Progressives Congress regime needs urgent help and must seek such. Saraki, in a statement on Tuesday, lamented the multiple attacks on lives and properties in the country on Monday which claimed at least 15 cops and five soldiers, as well as the killing of abducted students of Greenfield University in Kaduna, adding that the situation “cannot continue” and “cannot become Nigeria’s new normal”. The chieftain of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party said, “It is obvious that President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressives Congress government need help. They have been overwhelmed by the situation and they sure need assistance from all. Thus, I urge Mr. President to seek help wherever it can be given. This matter has gone beyond what the government can handle alone. The President should know that calling for help in our present situation is not a sign of weakness.” Saraki, once again, advised the President to bring together all former Presidents and heads of state, serving and former chief justices, serving and former presiding officers of the National Assembly, serving and former heads of security agencies, traditional rulers with relevant experience, leaders of the private sector, development partners, friends of Nigeria in the international community and all others who can help in finding solutions to the problem at hand. “The meeting must hold expeditiously and must be followed by immediate actions. I know there are many people who believe that the fact that this suggestion is coming from a source outside government is a good reason for the President to ignore it. I think the attitude this time around must be different. This is definitely not a time for partisanship or for people to play politics with the lives of the citizenry and the future of the country,” he said. The ex-Senate leader further called on the National Assembly “to be more assertive in finding solutions to this issue of insecurity” He said the legislature would not be helping the Buhari regime if they did not become more insistent and decisive in their approach to getting the security crisis tackled immediately. “Even those of us in the opposition party recognise the fact that we can only exist if we continue to have a country. Thus, we are willing to cooperate with the government in finding solutions to this problem. Our former leaders, I am sure, are ready, willing, and able to assist the government with their wealth of experience. “However, all these actors will not jump into the arena without the government facilitating their intervention. The government needs to call on them before this problem consumes all of us.” “I appeal to Mr. President to take the bull by the horn. He should act to stem the tide of this violence threatening to tear the country apart,” he concluded.