EMBARRASSED by the serial security breaches which culminated in the mindless attacks on Imo State by gunmen a fortnight ago, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), uncharacteristically moved swiftly to dismiss Mohammed Adamu as Inspector-General of Police and appointed Usman Baba in acting capacity as his successor. That the announcement of the appointment was made while Adamu was on a tour of Imo State to assess the carnage speaks volumes and should be a lesson to the new IG. Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo explained the enormity of the task ahead of Baba while decorating him with his new rank, saying, “You are assuming office at a very turbulent time in the life of our people. There are multiple threats to law, order and public safety.” He added, “In short, your mission is nothing less than the restoration of dignity and high repute of the policing profession and the continuous oiling of that machinery of the Police Force that enables it to be respected by the populace and by the international community.” Indeed, the Nigeria Police Force, which has the motto, ‘Police is Your Friend,’ has for many years failed to earn the trust of the people. Its incompetence and inability to address internal security challenges have led to the recent rise in regional security outfits like Amotekun in the South-West and the newly conceived Ebube Agu in the South-East. It is evident that killer herdsmen, terrorists, and bandits that make several parts of the country ungovernable contribute to the rising clamour for autonomy and separatist agitation. The incessant extrajudicial killings and extortion of mostly youths by the police show a government agency that has derailed from its original mandate, which is to protect and serve the people. It got so bad that in 2017, the National Bureau of Statistics and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime rated the Nigeria Police as the most corrupt institution in the country. The refusal of the authorities to effectively address complaints of police brutality and extortion eventually gave rise to the #EndSARS protests which brought the country to its knees last year. Baba must therefore ensure that some of the demands of the #EndSARS protesters like the psychological evaluation of all members of the disbanded Special Anti-Robbery Squad are met. There is also an urgent need to improve the human rights record of the Nigeria Police Force which has failed to improve despite the establishment of human rights departments in several police stations. According to Amnesty International, law enforcement officials must always comply with international human rights standards on policing such as the United Nations Code of Conduct for Law Enforcement Officials and the UN Basic Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms by Law Enforcement Officials. The police must respect, protect, and ensure the rights to life, liberty, personal security and physical integrity and freedom of expression and peaceful assembly. The new Police Act, which was signed last year ought to have introduced reforms into the police. However, the failure of the last IG to update the police regulations to align with the spirit of the Police Act ensured that archaic and repugnant practices in the police like sacking policewomen for getting pregnant out of wedlock continued. Baba must therefore implement reforms to make the police more human rights compliant. Taking over the mantle of leadership at such a sensitive period in the nation’s history, Baba has a Herculean albeit surmountable task of reforming the police as the nation’s first line of defence. The President must therefore immediately summon the Police Council and ensure that the controversies surrounding Baba’s appointment are quickly addressed. But how can the new police boss address the problems plaguing the institution? Baba would do well by first making deliberate efforts to avoid the pitfalls of his predecessors and ensure that the police under his watch are completely apolitical. He must follow through with the task of withdrawing policemen from VIPs who ought not to have police escorts. The Police Service Commission said in 2018 that over 150,000 policemen were attached to VIPs and unauthorised persons in the country, while the current total number of policemen at an estimated 370,000, which means about 40 per cent of policemen are attached to private persons. Unfortunately, despite attempts by the last IG to reverse this trend, policemen soon returned to VIP duties. The new IG must restore the strained relationship between his office and the PSC which has prevented the recruitment of 10,000 constables at a time of such high insecurity. Nigeria has failed to meet the United Nations recommendation which is 340 police officers per 100,000 people or minimum police strength of 220 per 100,000 people. The indiscipline and indolence, which has for years undermined police operations, must be dealt with swiftly. It was saddening to hear that the police had a week earlier been informed by the State Security Service of the impending attack in Imo State where over 1,500 prison inmates were freed, and the police command headquarters was torched. The IG must work closely with the PSC to ensure that senior officers found wanting are prosecuted, dismissed, or demoted. Currently, the police are no match for the sophistication of violent criminals. For a country of 206 million, they are shorthanded. This endangers even police officers, many of whom have been killed in recent times. Without a doubt, the solution to this is the creation of state police. However, in the immediate term, policemen should be deployed in strategic areas to tackle crimes. AI said the absence of needed security in most communities gives a loophole to criminals to perpetrate robbery, mass kidnapping and arson among other crimes. The acting IG should restore confidence, investigate, and address complaints about personnel welfare, pay and allowances and intelligence lapses. The President must also play his part by ensuring an increase in police salary so that they can be adequately compensated for protecting the lives and property of citizens. A demoralised police force can never live up to its responsibilities. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com