The United States Mission has said it will prioritise student visa applicants and ensure Nigerian students resuming at the start of the 2021/2022 academic year get visa interview appointments well in advance of the start date of their programmes. US Mission Country Consular Coordinator, Susan Tuller, in a statement by the Consulate General’s Information Specialist, Public Affairs Section, Temitayo Famutimi, on Friday, noted that the embassy in Abuja and consulate general in Lagos State would make every effort to assist student visa applicants in a timely fashion while keeping personnel and customers safe. Tuller said, “As we continue to prioritise the health and safety of our staff and customers, processing student visas remains a high priority for the US Mission in Nigeria. “We will increase the number of student visa appointments in May and June to ensure that we can offer appointments to as many students as possible. If your US studies are scheduled to begin this Fall, we encourage you to schedule your appointment as quickly as possible.” Tuller explained that all student visa appointments must be booked through the US Travel Docs website at www.ustraveldocs.com/ng/. She warned applicants against the use of third-party services, including touts, and fixers who broker visa appointments. “Both Nigeria and the United States benefit when Nigerian students study at one of our world-class educational institutions. To prepare for your US educational opportunity, we encourage you to check out EducationUSA Advising Centres at our American spaces in Abuja, Lagos, Ibadan (Oyo), and Calabar (Cross River), or at educationUSA.state.gov,” she added. According to the statement, Nigeria sends more students to American colleges and universities than any other country in Africa and is the 11th largest source worldwide of international students to the United States. “In academic year 2019-2020, a record-breaking number of nearly 14,000 Nigerians pursued graduate and undergraduate degrees in the United States. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com