A professor of virology, Oyewale Tomori, on Tuesday said the third wave of COVID-19 is imminent in Nigeria except the people change their attitude. The expert, while speaking on the topic, ‘COVID-19 vaccines: To take or not to take,’ at the media round table organised by the Nigerian Academy of Science, said the testing rate of the country was not good enough. He said, “According to the figures we have as of April 19, we’ve already passed the 1.8 million samples tested but there is nothing to be proud about that in a country of about 200 million people. “The number of cases we’ve confirmed as of April 19, 2021 is about 104,000. It started in February 2020, it slowed down around August and September of 2020, then it came up suddenly again, now the cases are going down. Those of you who don’t know, I’m sure the figures may go up again and we may have the third wave if we don’t change our attitude. You better believe it, either you like it or not.” The professor of virology said the only solution to contain the virus was for the people to get vaccinated, adding that there was nothing wrong about the vaccine being produced in less than 18 months. “There is this story that, ‘they produced these vaccines so fast, something must be wrong with it.’ You may be right. Polio took more than 60 years before they could produce a vaccine, Ebola has taken almost 15 years or more, SARS-CoV, took a little much longer. “But now COVID-19 vaccine has come out under a year, why? Because the foundation has been laid with MARS and SARScov; the building blocks for making these vaccines are already in existence. Fortunately for us, MARS and SARScov did not become pandemic and the people abandoned the vaccine production but the knowledge is already there. So, when COVID-19 came, they continued the vaccine production from where they stopped,” Tomori said. The president of the Academy, Prof. Ekanem Braide, said the event was organised to interact with the media on emerging national issues that could be addressed by applying science and technology. She added that the Academy would continue to assist the government in addressing national problems that could be solved by the application of science. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com