Former Minister of Education, Oby Ezekwesili, has disagreed with the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on his support for the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami. The PUNCH reported yesterday that the Presidency through the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, threw its weight behind Pantami amid calls for his resignation or sacking. The calls followed the unearthing of sermons delivered by the Minister in the past which had him allegedly sympathising with the terror groups – Al-Qaeda and Taliban – a thing he says he has repented of. READ ALSO: MASSOB rejects asylum offer, says UK plotting to stop Biafra Addressing calls for the Minister’s removal, Shehu in a statement yesterday said, “They do not really care what he may or may not have said some 20 years ago: that is merely the instrument they are using to attempt to ‘cancel’ him.” He also said, “The administration stands behind Minister Pantami and all Nigerian citizens to ensure they receive fair treatment, fair prices, and fair protection in ICT services.” Reacting, Ezekwesili revealed that the position of the Presidency in regards to the case involving Pantami shows the view of President Buhari on terrorism. “In that singular act of siding with his Minister of Communication, @NGRPresident @MBuhari actually conveyed a message on his view of terrorism. Nigerians now know that his views align with that of his Minister. It is now left to Nigerians to convey whether we agree with them,” she tweeted. READ ALSO: How CCTV facilitated Nollywood actor, Baba Ijesha’s arrest for defiling minor “I do not agree with @NGRPresident @MBuhari and his Minister of Communication that any citizen can get away with such bloodcurdling rhetorics the latter made through the years. Worse that one who swore an oath to public office said and did the things @NigeriaGov has waved off. “Yesterday’s action by our President was an anti-climax. He has persisted in badly managing our country’s diversity. “Nigeria cannot at this stage avoid a genuine conversation about its future. The signs are all too obvious for all to see and act on.” READ ALSO: No amount of Buhari’s inducement will stop Biafra, IPOB boasts