A former member of the House of Representatives, Usman Bugaje, has warned against the division of Nigeria. He explained that the break-up of the country would worsen the situation of things in the country. The former lawmaker made this known during the 17th edition of the biennial Lagos Qur’an Competition, popularly known as ReciteLagos, organised by the Muslim Students’ Society of Nigeria, Lagos State Area Unit in honour of the late Dr AbdulLateef Adegbite. He encouraged Nigerians to set aside their differences and work for the progress of the country. Bugaje warned that “things can get worse” in the country if the country split. He said, “There are a lot of things that are wrong in Nigeria – environmental issues and distribution of wealth. The idea of separation should not be for us. It is by coming together that we can be able to deliver on our mandate. “Even if there are problems, we should be able to settle our differences and move on.” On his part, Amir (president) of the MSSNLagos, Miftahudeen Thanni, said Nigeria’s challenges are surmountable. He said the theme of the competition, ‘Qur’an, the making of a great nation’, was chosen to emphasise the need for divine intervention in the administration of Nigeria. “Obviously, there is a need for divine intervention in the affairs of the country,” he added. Chairman of the occasion, Mr Tunde Folawiyo, commended the organisers for encouraging youths to learn the Qur’an. During the event, which has the Sultan of Sokoto as the Spiritual Father of the occasion, seventeen reciters emerged champions in various categories. While AbdulQuadri Atukale emerged winner in the Juz 20 category, Abdussalaam Aliyy won the first position in the 10 Juz and 12-year-old Bashir Tukur put up a sterling performance to come first in the keenly contested Juz three category. One of the winners 12-year-old Bashir Tukur noted that he was impressed with the impartiality of the judges, saying, “This has given me so much exposure. I am glad that I participated. I feel very happy.”