Facebook has announced the launch of a new social media drive allowing people to add frames and graphics to their profiles on Facebook and Instagram, saying they have either had the COVID vaccine, or plan to. Working in partnership with the National Primary Health Care Development Agency and other key regulatory bodies within the Health sector in Nigeria, Facebook in a statement issued on Friday said it would use its scale and speed to reach people quickly and help them get credible information, get vaccinated and come back together safely. The new range of Facebook frames and Instagram GIPHY stickers allow people to share their support for getting vaccinated with their family and friends, as the access to COVID vaccines expands across Nigeria, the company said. The frames and stickers include banners that say ‘Let’s Get Vaccinated’ or ‘I Got My COVID-19 Vaccine’ which would appear overlaid on the edge of their profile picture next to a blue bubble that reads ‘We Can Do This’. Facebook, noting that millions of people remained hesitant to accept the vaccine,     said it was launching the profile frames as research had shown how social norms could have a major impact on people’s attitude and behaviour when it comes to their health. “We’re promoting these unique profile frames and GIFs to all Nigerian Facebook and Instagram users to raise vital vaccine confidence,” said Facebook’s Head of Public Policy for Anglophone West Africa, Adaora Ikenze. “The new frames and GIPHY stickers let you share your support for COVID-19 vaccines, and see that others you respect and care about are doing the same.” Speaking on the partnership with Facebook, Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency, Faisal Shuaib, said partnerships like the one secured with Facebook demonstrated the resilience of the human spirit to endure, innovate and reemerge with the promise of hope that COVID-19 vaccination offered to everyone. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com