The House of Representatives has urged the Central Bank of Nigeria to suspend the ongoing recapitalisation exercise for microfinance banks in the country until the economy gets better. At the plenary on Wednesday, the House unanimously adopted a motion moved by the Vice Chairman of the House Committee on Finance, Saidu Abdullahi, titled ‘Urgent Need for the Central Bank of Nigeria to Suspend the Deadline for Recapitalisation of Microfinance Banks.’ Consequently, the House urged the CBN to “suspend the planned recapitalisation program until the economy stabilises and considered safe for a new deadline to be fixed.” [READ ALSO] Autonomy: CJs collect cars from govs, can’t speak truth, says JUSUN The House also mandated its Committee on Banking and Currency to interface with the CBN to find a workable solution to the challenges associated with recapitalisation of the MFBs in Nigeria and report back within four weeks for further legislative action. Moving the motion, Abdullahi recalled that the CBN, in October 2018, reviewed the minimum share capital requirement of the three categories of MFBs as follows: Unit MFBs, from N20m to N200m; State MFBs, from N100m to N1bn; and National MFBs, from N2bn to N5bn. The lawmaker further recalled that on March 18, 2019, the CBN further reviewed the minimum capital requirements for the MFBs, allowing for installment payment and categorisation of Unit microfinance into Tiers 1 and 2, thus following the new capital requirement guideline, Tier 1 MFBs (Urban) are to pay N200m as a minimum capital requirement, while Tier 2 (Rural) are to pay N50m as against the initial N20m requirement in 2018. [YOU MAY ALSO LIKE] Insecurity: PDP slams Remi Tinubu for criticising Smart Adeyemi during plenary He stressed that in 2020, the CBN considered the impact of the COVID–19 pandemic on the economy and revised the timeline for compliance with the minimum capital requirement for the MFBs by one year, which will be due by the end of April 2021. Abdullahi made reference to a survey conducted by the National Association of Microfinance Banks, which indicated that out of 874 licensed MFBs, about 612 might be negatively affected by the recapitalisation policy as, according to findings, only 30 per cent of MFBs would be able to meet the April deadline, while 70 per cent are likely to be out of business with severe consequences for the financial services industry. The lawmaker said, “The House is concerned that the MFBs may not be able to meet up with the recapitalisation requirement of the CBN within the proposed time due to the adverse effects of COVID–19 pandemic and other economic realities. “In addition to the negative economic impact of the COVID–19 pandemic, Nigeria’s economy recently exited recession, the implication of which will be a significant slowdown in economic activities as the liquidity position of the government and businesses have been impacted negatively. “In times like this, economic thinkers advocate for injection of more liquidity into the economy to stimulate economic activities, encourage spending and prevent job losses as well as support indigenous businesses. “The House is worried that if the 612 MFBs, which is equivalent to 70 per cent of the entire Nigerian MFBs, with the workforce of about 44,800 staff, are shut down, it will aggravate unemployment, compound the challenges of insecurity, youth restiveness, poverty, apathy and hopelessness across the country.”