There has been much activism of late with regard to the incidence of child abuse such as rape. The Federal Ministry of Women Affairs, led by Pauline Tallen, as well as other government agencies and non-governmental organisations are at the forefront of it. If one sees the passion they demonstrate as well as the practical actions they’ve taken in order to assist children that are abused but doesn’t appreciate it, I don’t know what one will appreciate. To me, the fact that more significant voices speak up for abused children who have no voice is worth noting. For if no one does anything, what will be the fate of such children? The rise in the call for action comes against the backdrop of significant rise in abuse of, especially, children reported in 2020 at the height of the COVID-19 pandemic and the attendant lockdown. It’s a serious matter, not limited to Nigeria, a reason the books by two Nigerians on the subject are of interest to me.  Benedict Chidi Ugwuanyi’s book, ‘Psychological Interpretation of Child Abuse: A Research in Igboland of Nigeria’, is one. Helena Niyi’s novel, ‘Quest’, as well as her handbook titled, ‘Save the Child’, is another. While Niyi’s novel focuses in large part on the subject of human trafficking and the abuses young people are subjected to in the process, her handbook that’s on how to avoid as well as mitigate the effects of abuse on children is what I am particular about. As a writer in diverse genres, I cannot but see the relevance when different writing genres addresses the same issue, especially the issue of child abuse. It means readers who prefer either of the two genres have access to information that can better inform and educate them. Ugwuanyi’s work zeroes in on the people of South-East, Nigeria, presenting to us what he calls an Igbo worldview of a child, the very kind of literature I like to read in order to have a better understanding of the mindset and practices of our different peoples. Ugwuanyi’s take here is instructive as all African cultures have certain common traits, yet maintain some peculiarities. The extent to which the Igbo value and treasure children, according to the author, is caught in personal names given children such as Nwabueze (the child is king). With regard to child upbringing and character development, the author says the nature and structure of the Igbo traditional society favour collective efforts. Among the Igbo, children are assessed by the level of morality, etiquette and discipline they acquire from parents and from relatives. Adults in the community have to pass on good examples to the young. This contributes to their proper development and psychological well-being. At the centre of child rearing practices though are the parents who invest time and energy in transmitting  the desirable values, with the hope that the child acquires and embodies them.  However, as Ugwuanyi notes, one problem is that some parents set goals which are very high for the children, and these goals are sometimes unrealistic. As child rearing differs from one parent to another, the author argues, culture also plays a significant role in the child’s upbringing and this differs from one country or ethnic group to the other.  In Igbo society, parents while rearing their children pay much attention to the aspect of discipline. “Unfortunately, many Igbo parents do not know the difference between child training, child discipline and child abuse,” Ugwuanyi submits. To me, this challenge is best understood in the context of the long-held and positive value of discipline and responsible lifestyle, hard work, success, and the attendant societal recognition seen in Chinua Achebe’s classic novel, ‘Things Fall Apart’. Nonetheless, Ugwuanyi’s observation is an interesting one worthy of interrogation, since it’s popularly acknowledged that parents or guardians would essentially  discipline children out of love rather than hatred.  This point is important to me because I still like adults who, I realise with benefit of hindsight, corrected me with love when I was a child. Today, when I see these same people enormous respect for them bubbles in my heart. However, there was this teacher in my elementary school who simply derived pleasure in caning pupils. I don’t recall that he ever corrected little mistakes verbally. Rather, he used canes that he pleasurably tagged either Mr Brown or Mr White. As a teenager undergoing my Higher School Certificate programme, I sometimes saw this former teacher of mine on the street, and I always took another direction to avoid him. Leaving out teachers who are sadists, I’ve always wondered why any parent would go to school to fight a teacher who disciplines their child. I believe under normal circumstances, such a teacher disciplines a child basically to correct. Nonetheless, there’s the angle of overdoing it, one point I believe Ugwuanyi is referring to when he states that there’s a difference between child discipline and child abuse. He goes on to explain what he’s driving at, an explanation that I think all of us need to check out. The author addresses the crux of his work by defining who a child is as well as what child abuse is. He notes the different types of child abuse, effects of  each type of abuse,  as well as the possible signs and symptoms of child abuse. In furtherance of the focus of his book, Ugwuanyi, a doctorate degree holder in Clinical Psychology also did a psycho–educational assessment in regard to child abuse. From his research, he elaborates on the dire consequences on children who are abused psychologically or emotionally. According to him, psychological or emotional abuse is in fact the most widely spread type of all abuses, and ultimately the most damaging. As he further explains, the effects of emotional abuse can be so subtle that an emotionally mistreated child may show no outward signs, thus making emotional abuse the most difficult type of  abuse to identify and stop. Besides, the complex nature of child abuse makes intervention complex and complicated. In addition to these, the author makes proposals based on his research, some of which require government interventions to implement. This is one point that should be of interest to government agencies involved in matters related to children, especially at this time when Tallen’s Women Affairs Ministry is actively engaged in finding practical solutions to  gender-based violence and other forms of abuses meted out to children across the country. Niyi’s handbook on its part focuses on, and directly addresses the child, the adolescent, or young adult. It’s written in a simple language that young minds could understand. Her objective is for the targeted readers to digest, and put every word of advice she offers “into practice.” Niyi offers tips on how young people can avoid being victims of abuses, and she also wants those who have unfortunately become victims to “pick up the scraps” and move on with their lives.  According to the author, even if parents or care givers have failed in their duty, her work is meant to encourage young minds to move on with a resolve to making right every wrong that has happened to them.  Instead of a victim focusing on what went wrong, Niyi calls their attention to the potentials they have. She’s of the view that each victim has a lot deposited in them; there’re great gems which they can polish and use to make the most of their lives. More importantly, she provides contact details regarding where immediate help can be sought by any child who’s experiencing abuse. It’s noteworthy that Ugwuanyi’s as well as Niyi’s works are out at this time when so much activism to stop abuses against children (such as rape) is engaged in by government agencies and other stakeholders. For me, the output of the two writers is a significant contribution to this effort. In the enlightening, educative, and informative materials that the two authors have in their books, one could sense the passion and concerns of writers who have seen much and heard much about the subject they treat. They’ve therefore offered insights, pieces of advice, and tips from perspectives which make the tasks of policy makers concerned with these issues even easier. As such their works deserve all the official attention they can get. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com