INTERMITTENT boundary and communal clashes are exacting a costly toll on lives, property and social cohesion in many Nigerian communities. Attempts by the government, the National Boundary Commission and other stakeholders to stem the tide in states like Ebonyi, Kwara, Benue, Taraba, Adamawa, Enugu and Cross River have defied the prescribed solutions. These bloody conflicts compound the general breakdown of security in the country and portend dark omens for communal life. Extreme cruelty is at play in these communities, a glaring contradiction of modern life. The internecine conflict has now flared up in Gombe, one of the states previously relatively insulated from boundary skirmishes. There, several people were killed earlier this month. In the deadly clash between the Lunguda and Waja ethnic nationalities in the Balanga Local Government Area of Gombe, sharing a border with Adamawa State, a hunting expedition degenerated to the massacre of 15 people. Houses were razed and property wantonly destroyed. This is an established pattern in these confrontations. Early in April, at least two persons were killed, and many houses destroyed in a renewed communal dispute between Ikpanya of Ibiono Ibom LGA of Akwa Ibom State and Ugbo in Arochukwu LGA of Abia State. In March, the perennial communal strife between the neighbouring Offa and Erinle communities in Kwara State resurfaced. An audacious attempt by a transport union to establish a terminus near the buffer zone sparked the renewed skirmish. When the red mist settled, five people had been consumed. The Kwara State government should not spare the actors who recklessly breached the terms of the buffer zone if it really wants to curb this bloody belligerency. In February, 25 people were slaughtered, and 125 houses set on fire in the prolonged communal crisis between the Effium and Ezza Effium communities of Ebonyi State. The decade-long war has displaced thousands of people. Ebonyi is grappling nervously with a peculiar problem. Apart from its communities attacking each other, its communities are also at war with border communities of Cross River, Benue and Enugu states. In some of these cases, the warring factions are brothers of the same ethnic stock, who are separated only by state atomisation. Still, the combatants conveniently forget their brotherly ties. This is illogical. Another distressing border dispute has raged for decades in the Benue-Taraba border between the Tiv and Jukun. A year ago, three Tiv were casualties in the dispute in the Jootar community in Benue, allegedly killed after an attack by Jukun from neighbouring Taraba. It is a complex case. Some Tiv, as well as Jukun, who fall into Benue or Taraba State, do not want to be there; they want to be with their kith and kin at the other side across the border. These people are all Nigerians; they have access to each other across the state borders. So, this should not deteriorate to periodic massacres. Since 1999, Aguleri and Umuleri, two neighbouring communities in Anambra State, have been at each other’s throats over land. Twenty-two years ago, communal clashes that spanned three months claimed 350 lives on both sides. It reared its head again last January, with two persons dying in the fresh upheaval. These are brothers with deep ties. But similar turbulence occurred between the Ife and Modakeke, first in the old Oyo State in 1981 and later in 1998 when the two neighbours were already part of Osun State. It is argued that land conflicts often have extensive negative effects on economic, social, spatial and ecological development. In ‘Land Conflict’, Babette Wehrmann says land conflicts are indeed a widespread phenomenon and can occur at any time or place. Both need and greed can equally lead to them, and scarcity and increases in land value can make things worse. Indeed, it is said that the leading cause of war in history involves territorial disputes such as competition over Alsace-Lorraine, Kashmir, the Golan Heights, and the Beagle Channel. Markedly, parts of the developing world are most prone to this primordial bloodletting. At the weekend, the United Nations Refugee Agency raised the alarm over the upsurge in violence in the Democratic Republic of Congo. There, 13 people have died and nearly 21,000 others have been displaced since March 28 by clashes between the Luba and Kuba ethnic groups in Bakwakenge. India is another case in point. Bloody communal riots took place there in 1893, 1948 and the 1969 and 1984 sectarian riots. At least 1,000 people died in the 1969 violence. Thousands of Indians have been mercilessly killed in the uprising. According to media reports, Bangladesh also suffers from communal violence. This is a stain on the so-called political advancement in these parts of the world. What is the way out? One way is for the authorities to deploy sufficient security agents to potentially volatile places. Credible intelligence is key. Again, perpetrators of such heinous crimes should not be appeased but punished. So much rests on the shoulders of the NBC. It should get proactive, carrying out pragmatic delineation of boundaries and sensitising the border communities on the advantages of peaceful coexistence. State governments should show real concern, collaborating regularly to maintain peace in disputed areas. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com