The South-East has been in the throes of violent attacks on police stations by gunmen with residents of Abia, Imo, Ebonyi, Anambra and Enugu states living in fear. Some residents of Imo State have yet to get over the bloody attacks on police stations and correctional centre in the state. According to them, the attacks on seven police divisional headquarters, two court buildings, two Local Government Area secretariats, the state police command headquarters in Owerri, the Owerri Correctional Centre and an army checkpoint at Ukwuorji on the Owerri- Onitsha expressway between February and April 2021 by gunmen were vicious. Also, for Damian Nwokeoma, who lives with his aged parents close to the Owerri Correctional Centre and the state police command headquarters attacked by gunmen who also freed 1,884 inmates, the night of the attack, was the most horrible of his life. The ex-bank worker said that most security men on duty that night at the correctional centre and the command headquarters took refuge in their compound and neighbourhood. He said, “It was the most fearful day of my life and that of the members of my family. I was woken up by shootings around the prison premises because our house is close to the correctional centre and the state police command headquarters. Some of them wore only boxers while others were on trousers. I got scared because I didn’t know who they were. Some of them ran towards the orange tree in our compound to hide. Shootings continued at this time. I had to call my brother on the phone because I didn’t know what was happening. My brother called back to tell me that he called the commissioner of police who told him that he had deployed some mobile policemen in the area to tackle the situation.’’ Nwokeoma further said that his concern then was the safety of his children and parents who were with him at the time, adding “My mother is hypertensive. It was when I called my brother that they knew that strange men were in our compound. I had to calm her not to shout to attract attention. I took my children from their room to the room where my parents were.  The attackers ended their operation around 3:45am. It was later that I got to know that those who jumped into our compound were policemen running from danger.’’ He said that the family was planning to leave the state as many residents now live in fear. Another resident, Kelechi Okwuolisa, said that he was grateful to God that he was safe with his mother the day gunmen attacked the state command headquarters. He said that he first heard sounds of explosives around the prisons because his house is close to a former government quarters later sold to retirees. Okwuolisa added, “Then after some minutes people started running into our compound. Some even scaled the fence of a judge of a federal high court who is our neighbour. Some ran to a nearby hotel opposite our compound. I was frightened because we don’t know what was actually happening except that the shootings continued. It was like a war and everywhere was tense. The attackers went to the police command headquarters and burnt it and the vehicles there and suspects freed. It was terrible night for all of us in the neighbourhood. There is fear among residents.” For Madu Mba, the attack on Aboh Mbaise divisional police headquarters was like a shock to him and his kinsmen because the same facility was torched in October during the #EndS ARS protests. He said, “The night was terrible because the sounds of the gunshots were terrifying. When we realised that the police station was under attack, we were unhappy because it was not long that some were burnt during the #EndSARS protests.’’ At Mbieri divisional headquarters, Kingsley Okafor, living near the place said that he heard the gunshots repeatedly, adding that it was in the morning that he knew that the divisional police headquarters was attacked and suspects freed. Okafor stated, “We were asleep that day when we started hearing gunshots and people making a loud noise. We didn’t know that it was the police station that was under attack because none ever attacked the police station before. I thought it was a robbery incident in some of the houses where the place the station is located.’’ He said it was in the morning that one of his cousins called on the phone to tell him that it was the police station that was attacked. Another dweller who gave his name only as Sampson said that the attack on the Ehime Mbano police divisional headquarters was an affront on the security apparatus in the state. The station was attacked on the day the Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo, the immediate past Inspector General of Police, Muhammed Adamu, and other top government officials were in the state to inspect the level of damage to the correctional centre and the state command headquarters. One of the residents, Ogueri Chukwuebuka, said that he heard gunshots from his house the day gunmen attacked the Isiala Mbano divisional headquarters located at Umuelemai. Chukwuebuka stated, “The attack was not at night. It was in the evening. From my house which is far from the police station, I heard gunshots. It was terrible.’’ Saturday PUNCH observed that seven divisional police headquarters had been attacked between February and April, 2021, in the state. Also, two local council areas’ headquarters, two courts, correctional centre, police command headquarters and a military base were also attacked with police and military men killed, while others were injured. A female cop was also kidnapped by the gunmen and released almost two weeks after. The first police station that was attacked in the state this year was the Obowo divisional police divisional headquarters. Apart from setting it ablaze and freeing suspects in custody, the attackers killed two police officers on duty who engaged them in a gun duel and injured another cop. The incident which happened on February 6 signalled the first of the many attacks on police facilities in the state. On February 27, gunmen attacked the Aboh Mbaise divisional police headquarters which had yet to be renovated after it was attacked during the October #EndSARS protests. The gunmen who came in the night opened fire on the officers on duty. They freed all the suspects in detention before torching it. A female cop on duty was wounded. On March 9, gunmen burnt the Ihitte/Uboma Divisional police headquarters, part of Ihitte Uboma Local Government Area headquarters, the Etiti High Court, the customary court and cars parked at the police command headquarters. The attackers took advantage of the weak security in the area after youths and the police clashed following the alleged killing of two siblings by officers of the Ihitte/Uboma divisional headquarters. On March 20, gunmen operating in vehicles attacked the Isiala Mbano divisional police headquarters located at Umuelemai and freed suspects. The rampaging gunmen killed one police officer on duty and that was the day a female cop was kidnapped. They also snatched a vehicle and kidnapped the President General, Luwe Nneir autonomous community, Chima Awurum, in his office at Ishinweke in the Ihitte Uboma Local Government Area. As if that was not enough, on April 8, gunmen attacked the Mbieri divisional police headquarters, freed suspects and vandalised the building. They also took away mobile phones at the station. Apart from the attacks on the police formations, the gunmen also attacked and torched the Orlu LG secretariat on January 25, the Njaba LG secretariat on Easter Monday, the night the Owerri correctional centre and the state police command headquarters were invaded and vehicles burnt. The gunmen also burnt part of the Ihitte/ Uboma LG secretariat on March 9 after it had wrecked havoc on other government facilities in the LGA. Also, the gunmen also killed a soldier at Ukwuorji on the Owerri-Onitsha expressway, the night it attacked the correctional centre and the state police command headquarters. But the police in the state said that they were on top of the situation. The police spokesperson in the state, Orlando Ikeokwu, said that though the state and the nation were experiencing security challenges, it wouldn’t take away the fact that the police were working hard to protect lives and property. Ikeokwu said while people discuss the attacks, they should also remember that policemen had repelled many of such acts and also made remarkable breakthroughs in other crime-fighting engagements. He said that the police were on the trail of the attackers, assuring that they would soon be apprehended. A resident of Owerri, Justice Nwafor, said that he was not satisfied with the way the state government, the Federal Government and the leadership of the police were handling insecurity in the state. Another resident of the state, Precious Nwadike, said that the attacks on security formations in the state had exposed the dearth of leadership in the state. Nwadike said “The attacks in Imo State, especially that of Easter Monday,  have further exposed the dearth of leadership in our dear region, with particular mention of Imo. What happened in Owerri shows that everyone is vulnerable and can be attacked if those who carried out that operation wish to.’’ Also speaking, an Owerri resident, Darlington Ibekwe, urged the government to start taking intelligence seriously. Ibekwe, an Information and Computer Technology expert, said, “I would be surprised if there was no intelligence before the incident happened. The comment by an ex-director of the Department of State Services, Dennis Amachree, shows that there was a security report.’’ The Chairman, Human Rights Defender, Imo State Chapter, UgoGold Ofonedu, urged the government to tackle the issue of bad governance. Ofonedu added, “There is hunger in the land. Millions of Nigerians are angry now. An angry man lashes out at every corner often without reason. The Nigerian government has neglected the people for a long time.’’ Reacting to the development, the state government said that it was working with security agents to end the attacks on police stations in the state. The Senior Special Assistant to the state governor on Print Media, Modestus Nwamkpa, said the state governor, Hope Uzodimma, was taking the issue of security uppermost in his shared prosperity government. He stated, “However, you know that the issue of security regarding to strategy and action plans is usually not an open thing. But one thing I can tell you is that the governor is putting heads together with all the relevant security agencies in the state to address security matter. “The governor upon assumption launched, “Operation Search and Flush,” aimed at curbing the issue of insecurity and it is doing well. He has also assisted security agencies in the areas of funding, training and provision of logistics. These are some of the things I can say though they are peripheral compared to the deep security strategies which are not in the open.” Also, a retired Assistant Inspector General of Police, Chris Ezike, urged the government to make use of what he called carrot and stick method on the attackers. Ezike, a former Commissioner of police in Imo and Abia states, asked the government to engage in “backdoor engagement with the leadership of the attackers.” He said, “The police authorities also have to make it a South-East operation not an Imo operation. You can see that they have shifted attention to Anambra and Abia states. Move the policemen into sector units with deputy commissioners of police as heads of each with an AIG covering the South zone for the operation.” In his contribution, a retired army captain, David Mbamara, linked what he described as the marginalisation of the region by the Federal Government to the cause of insecurity in the South-East. Mbamara said that when a part of the country was made to understand that they were not part of the leadership at the centre, its jobless young people would be deceived by people to launch onslaught against the establishments. A retired Superintendent of Police, Andrew Enwerem, said that bad governance was fuelling insecurity in the South-East. Enwerem, an ex-spokesperson for the state police command, said that “when a mind is not engaged positively, the next option is involvement in crime. Every year, our universities graduates thousands of youths and unfortunately there are no jobs for them.’’ More attacks in Anambra In Anambra State where the administration of Governor Willie Obiano began on March 17, 2014, insecurity appears to have been let loose in the past few months.  Aside cult-related killings that had claimed about 24 lives this year, about nine police stations were attacked and in most cases burnt and arms and ammunition carted away by the gunmen. Sadly too, about 16 security men were killed in the bloody attacks. The peak was the attack by gunmen on Zone 13 police headquarters, Ukpo on Monday. A police sergeant who spoke with one of our correspondents on condition of anonymity said the incident happened around 4am. He said, “I was on duty that day. There was sudden eruption of religious songs. At a stage, we thought they were people returning from a crusade or vigil. The zonal headquarters is located on the Onitsha expressway. When their songs subsided, we thought they drove off. But all of a sudden, what we had were gunshots. Our men had to take cover and fight back from there. “We gunned down about two or three of the hoodlums and wounded others, but they hurriedly entered one of their buses and zoomed off. Unfortunately, two of our men who sustained gun wounds died in the process.’’ Another police source said, “The criminals stormed the place with sophisticated firearms, destroyed some vehicles parked on the premises. They also burnt a security house at the gate. When the dust settled, two policemen; Ishaku Aura and Uzoma Uwaebuka, were killed.’’ In his comment, a Deputy Commissioner of Police, Echeng Echeng, said that a policeman was killed while another one died of exhaustion. He said, “There were bloodstains everywhere; they carried their dead and left. Many of them left with injuries and we also recovered a general purpose machine gun from them.’’ Echeng said it was too early to blame or attribute the attack on any persons or group. “We are conducting a full-blown investigation,” he added. A statement by the Zonal Police Public Relations Officer, Nkeiruka Nwode, didn’t identify the identities of the attackers. The police in the statement denied the death of any policemen in the attack, noting that two cops were injured and receiving treatment in an undisclosed hospital. Nwode said the attackers were repelled and one GPMG including several rounds of ammunition recovered. She said, “Police successfully repelled an attack on the zonal headquarters by criminal elements in the early hours of April 19, 2021. One of the criminal elements was neutralised during the exchange of gunfire between the police and the attackers, while many of the gang members escaped with gunshot injuries. One L7A2 general purpose machine gun, 92 rounds of 7.62mm live ammunition, one locally made smoke pistol and an axe were recovered by the police. Regrettably, two police operatives sustained gunshot injuries and are receiving treatment.’’ The zonal PPRO assured that the police would redominate, reclaim and secure all public spaces as directed by the Inspector General of Police, enjoining members of the public to continue to support the police with vital and timely information on the activities of criminals. The Zone 13 attack was the ninth of such onslaughts on police and other security agents in the state this year. In February, criminals attacked policemen at Mkpologwu and Omogho communities in the Aguata and Orumba North Local Government Areas respectively, killing four policemen and torching their patrol vehicles. They also made away with the cops’ guns. In March, gunmen killed three policemen on duty at a location in Neni community, in the Anaocha LGA of the state, and carted away their rifles. They also set their patrol vehicles ablaze. The same day, three naval officers on duty at Awkuzu, Oyi LGA, were attacked and killed. Their guns and other military equipment were equally taken away by their killers. The same month, the hoodlums attacked a vehicle belonging to the Nigeria Correctional Service on a court duty, killing one officer and a policewoman who boarded the vehicle from the court in Ekwulobia. The Public Relations Officer of the service, Francis Ekezie, said the attackers took away a crime suspect being conveyed to court by the prisons authorities. A policeman sustained gunshot injuries when gunmen attacked the police post in Mgbakwu community, Awka North LGA, in March. Before the attack on the zone 13 headquarters on Monday, hoodlums attacked a meeting conveyed by a former governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Prof Chukwuma Soludo, at his hometown in Isuofia in the Aguata Local Government Area of the state. Three policemen were killed in the attack. Proffering solution to the incident, a civil rights group, International Society for Civil Liberty and Rule of law said agitators of diverse types currently under incarceration should be freed. The group’s board of trustees chairman, Emeka Umeagbalasi, said, “The proscription of IPOB must be revisited and reversed; likewise that of Islamic Movement in Nigeria or Shiite Muslims and all their members currently held in secret dungeons. The Nigerian government must reverse its renewed crackdowns on IPOB activists and other innocent citizens so labelled.’’ A community leader Obioha Otuonye, suggested a grass-roots- based action to improve security. He said,” Let the state government read the riot act to communities to identify bad elements in their midst. They all know them.’’’ A security expert, Victor Agu, stated that the police and other security agencies must improve on intelligence-gathering. He said, “There is no security agency that can operate without high-level intelligence gathering mechanism. The police must have the capacity to be proactive.’’ Ebonyi not left out Ebonyi State has also been reeling in the grip of gunmen destroying public property, including facilities belonging to the police. Apart from the torching of police facilities in the state, there have also been cases of killing of cops and stealing of rifles. The attacks on police stations and cops started during the #EndSARS protests. Also, three policemen were attacked and killed last Monday in Abakaliki, the state capital, by suspected gunmen. The four injured policemen are ASP Akili Benson, Inspector Okewu Sunday, Inspector Egun Omini, and PC Ali Samson, while the five burnt police stations included the ‘B’ Division, Kpirikpiri; ‘C’ Division, Ekumenyi; Central Police Station, Ohaozara Division; Okposi Police Station; and the Ezza North Divisional Headquarters. Saturday PUNCH further learnt that the hoodlums also burnt patrol vehicles, motorcycles, documents and other property in the separate attacks. The Ebonyi State Police Command had in a statement by its Public Relations Officer, Mrs Loveth Odah, said the attacks were carried out by suspected members of the proscribed Indigenous Peoples of Biafra. Recently, three police officers were shot dead, while two others sustained bullet wounds at the Onueke Police Station in the Ezza South Local Government Area of Ebonyi State. Our correspondent gathered that the policemen were attacked by gunmen who stormed the station on a Saturday afternoon. Investigation showed that the slain officers were two male inspectors and one policewoman relaxing in a room when the gunmen struck. It was also gathered that the attackers took away two AK-47 rifles kept at the station. The Iboko Police Station in the Izzi Local Government Area of the state was torched by another set of gunmen in military uniform penultimate Monday. The attackers were said to have set the police station ablaze, using fire bombs and grenades. Also, in February, the Police Division at Isu in the Onicha Local Government Area of Ebonyi State was burnt by hoodlums. The state Commissioner of Police, Mr Aliyu Garba, confirmed the incident. The state governor, David Umahi, on Tuesday, condemned the killing of cops and burning of force facilities in the South-East. He said it would not be in the best of the zone if the Federal Government withdrew police men from the region, as a result of mayhem on the police in the zone. Umahi, “We condemn totally, the killings of policemen and burning of police stations in the South-East. My directive to any policeman is that if you see anybody coming to kill you, demobilise the person; that is the rule of engagement. I want South-East leaders to rise up to condemn this.’’ Abia records attacks Abia State has had its own share of mayhem with about three police stations burnt since January till date. The spate of attacks by “gunmen” on police stations in the state is worrisome. On February 2, 2021, some gunmen attacked Omoba Police Station in the Isiala Ngwa South Local Government Area of Abia State, killing a policeman. The attack occurred in the early hours of Tuesday at the station located along the Umuene–Omoba Road and the assailants were said to have besieged the place on motorcycles and opened fire on the station as policemen on guard repelled the attack. Again, suspected hoodlums, on Tuesday, February 23, 2021 attacked and burnt the World Bank Housing Estate Police Station, Abayi in Aba, killing about two police officers. This came barely a few weeks after the attack on Omoba Police Station in the Isiala-Ngwa South Local Government Area of the state. It was learnt that during the attack, the hoodlums killed an Assistant Superintendent of Police and a police corporal. The attack was said to have occurred at about 2:30 am on Tuesday and the hoodlums made away with arms. Police sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said tension had gripped residents of the city as police officers were now also afraid for their lives. On Monday, April 12, 2021, gunmen in the early hours of the day, torched the Uzuakoli Police Station in the Bende Local Government Area of the state. This came few days after the state government raised the alarm over plot by hoodlums to attack some key locations within the state. The state Commissioner for Information, John Kalu, said the security agencies in the state had been fully mobilised and placed on high alert to thwart the planned attack and bring those concerned to justice swiftly. The state government which imposed curfew from 8pm to 6pm to stem the attack advised residents to be vigilant, and ensure that they were at home before the curfew hours. In his comment, Chairman, Zone 9 Police Community Relations Committee, Collins Obi, noted that the state was working to curb the attacks. He said the government was doing everything within its power to support the police and other security agencies to tackle the attacks. Obi stated, “The government has placed premium on security and collaborating with security agencies in that regard. ‘’ Also, a security aide to the state governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, Capt Awa Udensi (retd), advised the police and other security agencies to be proactive to utilise intelligence to safeguard their various locations. Udensi added, “They should create room for immediate re-enforcement to support their police stations to ensure that criminals are not given the time to operate and should also utilise electronic security to support their physical security to ensure they ward off intruders or criminals. ’’ Awa advised the police to work with the villagers and integrate themselves with the indigenes to gather more information on movements of hoodlums around the area. On his part, AIG in charge of Zone 9 Ene Okon promised to expand strategies to cover the one notwithstanding the security challenges in the zone. He said, “We will strategically confront hoodlums. We will return to those days when Abia was hell for the criminals. The zone is not new to me.  Hoodlums in the state know what I can do.” A resident, Obinna Mba, who is a businessman in Umuahia, urged the police to identify the reasons why criminals attack stations and find a way to stop it. Also, an Aba-based human right activist and President General, South-East Youth Leaders, Goodluck Ibem, advised the police to intensify efforts in protecting stations and facilities. A Methodist Church Nigeria Bishop of Umuahia East Diocese, Rt. Rev. Agupusi, stated that though it’s true that certain security measures shouldn’t be discussed in the open, efforts should be made by government to clear forests of criminals. In his comment, a civil servant in the state, Boniface Okoro, said that the general security challenges were compounding the economic hardship being faced by citizens. By Chidiebube Okeoma, Tony Okafor, Sunday Nwakanma and Edward Nnachi Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com