A yet-to-be identified bank customer in Rivers State has reportedly slump and died after failing to withdraw cash for treatment for an undisclosed ailment. It was gathered that the incident occurred on Monday at a new generation bank in the Education area of the Port Harcourt City Local Government Area. READ ALSO: Stop hidden charges, exploitative marketing, Gbajabiamila tells banks An eyewitness, who had earlier posted the picture of the deceased on his Facebook account, Uwaifo Oviame, noted that the victim died of frustration and due the unfriendly attitude of the bank’s customer service. “A customer banking with one of the new generation banks in Port Harcourt has died due to frustration and unfriendly treatment by the customer service attendants of the bank “The man just died now in front of the bank. He was refused access to his money since Friday even when he came with his next of kin. He was asked to go to the court to get an affidavit knowing the court is not in session,” he added. Recall that the members of the Judiciary Staff Workers Association of Nigeria are on strike, halting all judiciary activities. Meanwhile, a mild drama ensued there when a lady and two men, believed to be family members of the late man, besiege the bank, wanting to deposit the corpse of the man in the banking hall. The young lady who was in tears, said, “Mr Ogolo Owuso is my brother. He came to the bank on Friday to withdraw money, but they said he should bring a next of kin over an issue I don’t know. “When he came today (Monday), they said he should go and bring court affidavit and the man told then that he was sick and the courts are not in session, they refused. He died out of frustration,* the grieving lady stated. When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Nnamdi Omoni, said he had yet to get the report. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com