Personnel of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission have arrested 67 suspected Internet fraudsters in Abeokuta, Ogun State, and Owo, Ondo State. The Head of Media and Publicity, EFCC, Wilson Uwujaren, said 33 suspects were arrested on Thursday at Adigbe, Oloke, Ibara Housing Estate Extension and Idi Ori areas of Abeokuta following actionable intelligence earlier received on their alleged criminal activities. The suspects include Sodiq Kotoye, Lawal Temitope, Abiola Oladimeji, Olufowobi Adeniyi, Lateef Taiwo, Oyebasi Damilola, Oluwatoyin Awonuga, Akinbode Azeez, Kayode Victor, Sulaimon Abdulahi, Adekona Tolani, Babatunde Rotimi, Oduwole Olatokunbo, Fatai Habeeb, Fashola Pelumi, Obitokun Olugbade, Atewojaye Oluwadamilare, Fawaz Calfos, Obadina Tobi Godfrey, Eugushi Mumuni and Ehis Hopkins. Others are Kolawole Bankole, Balogun Toheeb, Alaka Ismail, Adebowale Babatunde, Yusuf Ajibola, Adeoye Hammed, Omolayo Odutola, Musabaudeen Azeez Ayomide, Anifowoshe Babamide, Habeeb Ibrahim, Oladimeji Odunayo and Sunday Opatola. Items recovered from them include 18 cars, mobile phones, laptops and several incriminating documents. Similarly, 34 men were arrested in Owo, headquarters of the Owo Local Government Area of Ondo State, for Internet-related fraud. It was gathered that operatives of the anti-graft agency stormed the community on Wednesday and arrested the suspects, who were codenamed ‘Erinle’, following a tip-off. The suspects include, Adesuyan Ayoola, Oyesanmi Shola, Adegbole Victor, Osagie Ekiende, Akinayomide James, Okunade Jamilu, Omotoso Oluwaseyi, David Oluwatobi, Ahmed Rilwan, Saheed Odunayo and Olorunfemi Emmanuel. Others are Obakpolor Tommy, Emmanuel Ibe, Temiloluwa Joshua, Victor Benjamin, Akinwale Oluwaseun, Ogunboye Dotun, Adeniyi Femi, Obademi Samson, Oladunjoye Teniola, Eze Raphael and Samson Fadugbagbe. Also arrested are Oguntimehin Bamidele, Moshood Kazeem, Oniye Damilare, Balogun Mayowa, Obadapo Wale, Ese Stephen, Atakili Pelumi, Adesumo Fatai, Olalekan, Demi Temidayo, Oshorun Joseph and Oluwafemi Damilola Michael. It was gathered that the suspects were taken to the Benin, Edo State office of the agency for investigation. Some of the items recovered from the suspects include nine exotic cars, laptops, mobile phones, documents and identity cards. Uwujaren said investigation into the matter had begun after which the suspects would be charged. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com