Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State has finally condoled with the Itsekiri people on the passing of their monarch, Ogiame Ikenwoli, the Olu of Warri. Recall that Okowa had on Tuesday said the state government was not aware the passing away of the monarch. However, the governor told members of Olu of Warri Advisory Council, who visited him on Thursday at the Government House, Asaba, that the departed Olu was an epitome of peace who built bridges across ethnic divides in the country. He said, “I want to truly condole with the whole of Itsekiri nation on the passing of Ogiame Ikenwoli, the king who believed in peace. “We appreciate his conduct as a royal father who was always with us at state functions along with his colleagues. He built bridges of friendship and played his role beyond the Itsekiri nation.” The governor congratulated the Olu-designate, Prince Tsola Emiko, on his emergence and called on the Itsekiri people to give him their full support. He urged the Olu Advisory Council, led by the Iyatsere of Warri Kingdom, Chief Johnson Amatserunleghe, to unite everyone and ensure that there was peace in Warri Kingdom. Earlier, the delegation which spoke through Chief Brown Mene, said its visit was to intimate the governor on the demise of the Warri monarch and the election of a new one. Meanwhile, Amatserunleghe on Thursday said the coronation Prince Tsola Emiko was on course. He stated this in an interview with The PUNCH on Thursday, explaining that arrangements for the coronation programme were going as scheduled. “The traditional rites are what we are busy doing now,” he said. The Iyatsere insisted that Tsola Emiko would be formally crowned after the expiration of the three months mourning period currently being observed for the late Olu of Warri. Similarly, the Warri Council of Chiefs announced the constitution of committees for events and activities designed for the transition of 20th Olu of Warri, Ogiame Ikenwoli. and the coronation of the 21st Olu of Warri. The committees are scheduled to work under the close supervision of a 36-member Central Working Committee headed by Chief Kofi Kartey. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com