The Lagos State House of Assembly has called on the Nigerian Governors Forum to activate Executive Order 10 signed by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), which grants full autonomy to the legislature and judiciary. This was stated at the plenary presided over by the Speaker, Mudashiru Obasa, on Tuesday. The House also commended the striking members of the Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria and Parliamentary Staff Association of Nigeria for remaining resolute on ensuring that the two arms of government enjoy autonomy. Obasa appreciated the lawmakers for contributing to the debate raised under ‘matter of urgent public importance’ by the lawmaker representing Eti Osa 2, Gbolahan Yishawu. The Speaker said, “I commend PASAN at the Lagos State House of Assembly for permitting us to have our own sittings in this hallowed chamber. I sincerely commend the boldness and sincerity of purpose of both PASAN and JUSUN. “Looking back, I thank and commend the 2003 legislators of this Assembly for initiating the bill that granted us autonomy. I also commend the Governors of Lagos State from Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu for sustaining the autonomy of the legislature in the state. “Lagos is not the only state enjoying autonomy for legislature currently, Delta State has been granted autonomy. We want to use this medium to call on all state governors through the Nigeria Governors Forum to speed up their considerations and implement the full-scale financial autonomy.” Obasa argued that restructuring should actually start from the states, adding that autonomy was a step towards this. “Devolution of power and restructuring should start from home. If that is not done it would be wrong to start telling the Federal Government to share power to states. We appeal to the governors’ forum to start working on the autonomy for the legislature and the judiciary,” Obasa said, noting that without the legislature there is no democracy. Raising the motion earlier, Yishawu urged his colleagues to call on the Conference of Speakers to have the political will to defend their autonomy. While praising Lagos for ensuring autonomy for the legislature, Yishawu described the action of JUSUN and PASAN as geared towards strengthening democracy. He said the governors had nothing to fear about the autonomy being demanded. Leader of the House, Sanai Agunbiade, noted that the budget of a state includes what should go to the other arms of government aside from the executive. He, therefore, wondered why the legislature and the judiciary would be denied financial autonomy. He lamented the impact of the strike actions in the affected states.