The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, on Monday, said the establishment of the Institute for border studies in Imeko, Ogun State, will boost businesses and provide employment. Lawan stated this on Monday at the public hearing on a bill for an Act for the Establishment of the National Institute for Border Studies in Imeko, Ogun State. He said the institution would also calibrate the spread of educational infrastructural needs while balancing access to education among diverse demographies in the country. He said, “It will close up the gap in border management, improve safety and security of the country’s border, provide a secure , peaceful and friendly neighbours. “It will also enhance diplomacy with countries within the African subregion.” The sponsor of the bill who is also the Senator representing Ogun West Senatorial District, where the institute is cited, Tolu Odebiyi, said the establishment of the school would help the country to control influx of arms into the country through the land borders. He said, “The security situation we are currently facing, and with a huge percentage of it tied to issues around the control of arms and influx of illegal persons into the country, there is no better time to have this institute than now. Traditional rulers from Yewa land in the Ogun State, were led to the venue by the Olu of Ilaro, Oba Kehinde Olugbenle, Other royal fathers in attendance, to witness the public heating organised by the Senate Committee on Tertiary Institutions and TETFUND, are, the Onimeko of Imeko, Oba Benjamin Olanite Alabi; and the Aboro of Iboroland, Oba Daniel Salako. They also included, the Onipokia of Ipokia Yewa, Oba Yisa Adesola Olaniyan; Alagbara of Agbara Yewa, Oba Lukman Jayeola Agunbiade; Eselu of Iselu Yewa, Oba Ebenezer Akintunde Akinyemi; and the Abepa of Joga Orile Yewa, Oba (Dr.) Adeyemi Olanrewaju Adekeye, among others. The proposed bill, apart from creating an academic institution, is aimed at solving the serious and mounting security and border challenges in the country today. The bill which is for the establishment of a global standard institution is the first in Africa. The Professors in attendance are Emeritus Professor Anthony Asiwaju, Prof. William Fawole, Prof. R.T. Akinyele, Prof. Michael Bonchuk, Dr. Chris Kwaja. Former Senators from Ogun West in attendance are Sen. Kola Bajomo and Sen. Iyabo Anisulowo. The Senator representing Lagos West, Solomon Adeola, also graced the occasion. The chairman of the Senate committee, Ahmed Lawan Kaita, said nobody objected to the establishment of the institute.