‘Tana Aiyejina The Minister of Youth and Sports Development Sunday Dare Friday dissolved the boards of 31 National Sports Federations and constituted three-man Caretaker Committees to take charge of the federations. The move is coming with just 84 days to the beginning of the 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo. The Caretaker Committees will run the affairs of the 31 federations until the inauguration of the new boards. The minister, who was represented by the ministry’s Director of Federations, Elite Athletes Department, Dr. Simon Ebhojaiye, at a press conference in Abuja, said the move was in line with the Olympic Charter, which stipulated a four-year tenure for all sports federations’ boards, “following the expiration of the tenure of the National Olympic Sports Federations.” Dare stated, “Within the last four years, a few of the National Sports Federations Boards performed remarkably well. Having run a full Olympic cycle, the boards of the NSFs inaugurated on June 21, 2017 are hereby dissolved to pave way for fresh elections. “In order to ensure continuity in the administration of the federations, Caretaker Committees are hereby put in place to manage the affairs of the federations until elections are conducted and the new boards inaugurated. “Mindful of the Olympic Games in July 2021, the Caretaker Committees will work assiduously towards enhancing Team Nigeria’s participation at the Games. The ministry, in partnership with the NOC (Nigeria Olympic Committee), will release in due course, the time-table for the elections into National Sports Federations Boards.” The minister called on Nigerians with passion and interest for sports to contribute selflessly to the development of sports in the country, by indicating interest in the membership of the various National Sports Federations. The Aquatic Federation of Nigeria Caretaker Committee is headed by Babatunde Fatai Williams, Olumide George leads the Athletics Federation of Nigeria, Francis Orbih is in charge of Badminton Federation of Nigeria, Ahmadu Musa-Kida is at the helm of Nigerian Basketball Federation and Gen. Joseph Ayeni (retd) oversees the affairs of the Nigeria Boxing Federation. Others include DIG Sani Sani Mohammed (Nigeria Chess Federation), Prof Yahaya Ukwanya (Nigeria Cricket Federation), G. Masari (Cycling Federation of Nigeria), Abubakar Gaya (Darts Federation of Nigeria), U. Nahuche (Nigeria Deaf Sports Federation), Abubakar Dangaladima (Fives Federation of Nigeria), Olagunsoye Oyinlola (Nigeria Golf Federation) and Kelvin Erhurnwunse (Gymnastics Federation of Nigeria). The new Caretaker Committees also have Samuel Ochecho (Handball Federation of Nigeria), Senator Andul Ningi (Nigeria Hockey Federation), Brig Gen. Z. Abubakar (Nigeria Judo Federation), Sila Agara (Karate Federation of Nigeria), Yakubu Abubakar (Kickboxing Federation of Nigeria), Adewunmi Adekunle (Nigeria Wushu Kungfu Federation), Rear Admiral Porbeni Festus (retd.) (Nigeria Rowing, Canoeing and Yatching Federation), Grace Iyorchia (Nigeria Rugby Federation), Suleman Gora (Nigeria Scrabble Federation), Maj-Gen Johnny Hamakim (Nigeria Shooting Federation), Oyerinde Adeboye (Nigeria Squash Federation), Tikon Ishayaku (Nigeria Table Tennis Federation), Margaret Binga (Nigeria Taekwondo Federation), Akindoju Olaoye (Nigeria Tennis Federation), Usman Musa (Traditional Sports Federation of Nigeria), Musa Nimrod (Nigeria Volleyball Federation), Tonobok Okowa (Nigeria Weightlifting Federation) and Daniel Igali (Nigeria Wrestling Federation).