The Niger Delta Power Holding Company has signed a framework agreement with Benin Electricity Distribution Company to deliver additional 250 megawatts from stranded power to customers within the franchise area. NDPHC announced this in a statement issued in Abuja on Thursday by the Head, Communication and Public Relations, Olufunke Nwankwo. The Managing Director, NDPHC, Chiedu Ugbo, said the agreement took immediate effect, as some of the initial project areas included Benin Bypass (industrial cluster near NDPHC’s power plant at Ihovbor; Asaba, Delta State. Others include Ondo South Senatorial District and interventions in Ekiti State. Ugbo recalled that the two companies had in 2020 commenced the exploration of options to deliver reliable power to customers of the BEDC’s franchise area. He was quoted as saying, “Today, we are glad that we gather here for the purpose of signing a framework agreement for this collaboration. “For NDPHC, the project will enable us to deliver more 250MW of power to customers of BEDC’s franchise areas in Edo, Delta, Ondo and neighbouring states. “For BEDC, the project will help BEDC to satisfy its customers with reliable power and achieve an enhancement of its network and infrastructure.” The Chief Executive Officer, BEDC, Funke Osibodu, said the aim of her company was to deliver incremental power from the NDPHC underutilised or stranded capacity to several industrial and commercial hubs. She said this would be through multiple solutions across various locations in Delta, Edo, Ondo and Ekiti, adding that under the agreement, BEDC and NDPHC would provide end-to-end power solutions across the value chain. Osibodu said the collaboration would see the BEDC partner NDPHC and others to identify and prioritise critical projects to increase power supply, while improving on technical and commercial environment. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com