Airtel Africa Plc has announced the appointment of the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of Airtel Nigeria, Olusegun Ogunsanya, as MD/CEO of the Airtel Group. He is to succeed Raghunath Mandava, following Mandava’s decision to retire. According to a statement from the group on Thursday, Ogunsanya will join the board of Airtel Africa plc with effect from October 1, 2021. Ogunsanya joined Airtel Africa in 2012 as MD/CEO Nigeria and has been responsible for the overall management of operations in Nigeria. The group stated that he had over 25 years’ business management experience in banking, consumer goods and telecoms. Chairman, Airtel Africa, Sunil Mittal, expressed his delight with the new appointment, while appreciating Mandava for transforming the group into a powerhouse telecommunications and mobile money company. He said, “Ogunsanya has displayed significant drive and energy in turning around the Nigeria business by focusing on network modernisation, distribution, and operational efficiency. “It is this commitment, together with his industry experience, strategic vision, constant customer focus and proven record of delivery that will enable him to continue to deliver our strategic objectives and to lead the group in the next stages of its development.” “I am thankful to Airtel Africa for providing me and my team the opportunity to transform the business and fulfil our responsibility to the countries in which we operate. It has been a privilege to serve in the African continent and I cherish my time here,” Mandava said. Ogunsanya appreciated the new position, adding that he felt honored as an African to lead the group. “This is an exciting opportunity to position Airtel Africa for further success in a dynamic continent full of potential. I look forward to building on the achievements of the last five years during Raghu’s leadership,” he said. Mandava would be retiring as MD/CEO, as Director of Airtel Africa plc and as a member of the Market Disclosure Committee on 30 September 2021. The group said following his cessation of employment, he would be available to advise the Chairman, the Airtel Africa Board and the MD/CEO for a nine-month period.