Netflix has announced plans to feature Ikorodu Bois in its Oscar Weekend Film Brand Campaign. The Ikorodu Bois are a group of brothers and one cousin from Lagos, Nigeria, who remake their favorite movie trailers in their free time. The company, in a statement made available to The PUNCH, said its campaign was targeted at celebrating fans for the important role they play — for watching, loving, discussing, and even recreating Netflix movies. The statement read in part, “Netflix’s wide reach has woken up a new generation of global film fans, allowing them to discover more diverse perspectives, see themselves reflected and inspiring new forms of movie-love. “Once a year, the Oscars pierce the culture and put movies on our collective minds, and this year, we are putting the spotlight on the Ikorodu Bois to remind movie fans that fans are the most important part of the movies. “The year 2020/21 has been a weird and wonderful year for films and film lovers and our films brought joy and hope to the industry, and more importantly, to fans. In seeing the Ikorodu Bois channel their creativity into remakes/tributes of their favorite movies, we see the joy of being a fan.” The Vice President, Brand, Netflix, Eric Pallotta, said for inspiring Netflix, its filmmakers and talent every day to make more, they decided to focus on the fans this year. He said, “We chose to spotlight the Ikorodu Bois because their style is both charming and unique, using a mix of DIY craft and childlike joy to recreate mega-budget films on a shoestring. “They first caught our eye when they remade the trailer for Extraction in June 2020. The Bois have followers all over the world because their passion for entertainment is infectious and they remind us of that feeling we had when we fell in love with movies as a kid.” Pallotta noted that in August 2020, Netflix had sent the boys a care package of professional filmmaking gear to help support their filmmaking journey. The Director of the Ikorodu Bois, Babatunde Sanni, said, “We love movies because they give us the inspiration we need, put us in the best mood and allow us to get a glimpse into the lives of amazing people. “The reason why we do what we do is for the love of movies and we want to show the world that things can be achieved with the use of little stuff.” According to Pallotta, as the Oscars night is approaching, it feels like the perfect time and reason to give the spotlight to the Ikorodu Bois. He said, “We want to celebrate everyone’s love of movies and the Ikorodu Bois personify a new generation of global film fans, discovering movies for the first time, all over the world. “We know that great stories can come from anywhere – including from these ultimate fans – and be loved everywhere.”