The Gombe State Governor, Muhammadu Yahaya, has criticised the Federal Ministry of Transportation for the failure in restoring the North-East corridor of Nigeria’s railway, saying it is worrisome that Maradi, Republic of Niger would get the service before the Nigerian region. Yahaya spoke on Thursday, while playing host to the Minister of State for Transportation, Gbemisola Saraki, who was in the state for the inauguration of the Gombe outreach learning centre of the Nigerian Institute of Transport Technology. Addressing Saraki, the governor said, “I think the North-East corridor of the railway is the one that is neglected most by the transportation ministry. You must look into this, if the concentration of the Federal Ministry of Works is on dualising or facilitating a good road sector from Lagos through Ibadan and Ilorin to Abuja, and subsequently to Kaduna and Kano and the other parts. “Dualising the Port Harcourt port is equally as important as that and if rail is extended to Maradi in Niger Republic, there is no reason you shouldn’t give us good rail service here. “We would like the minister to facilitate the restoration of a good rail network in the North-East region. It is a priority to our people and we hope you facilitate it for us. As far as issues of transportation are concerned, we give our 100 per cent support.” Promising to support the full optimisation of the learning centre, Yahaya said the institute would be put to use by the governors of the North-East region. “I believe I’m speaking the minds of each governor from the North-East. Whatever is needed to facilitate proper utilisation of this institute, we shall do. We would like to urge you to do more by getting all those things mentioned. God willing, we shall not disappoint you,” he added. Saraki, in her remarks, described Gombe as strategic to growth and development of transportation in the region. The minister, who conferred on the governor the title of ambassador of the institute, urged him to persuade his counterparts to support the institution. She added, “We want to count on your Excellency to help mobilise youths in the zone for these courses. The Federal Government is trying to reduce the rate of unemployment through jobs of such nature.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com