THE Judicial Panel of Inquiry on Police Brutality and other related matters in Ondo State has recommended the sum of N755,730,897.83 to be paid to some of the victims of police brutality who had petitioned the panel. It was gathered that the panel received a total of 77 petitions from public and private persons who were victims of police brutality. The panel also recommended publication of apologies in national dailies particularly where the reputation of petitioners had been tarnished. The Chairman of the panel, Justice Adesola Sidiq (retd.), disclosed this while submitting the report of the committee to Governor Rotimi Akeredolu on Wednesday in Akure, the state capital. Justice Sidiq said the panel heard 14 criminal and 63 civil matters in the petitions received. According to the chairman, the “disheartening aspect of our assignment bordered on human rights violation, which dates as far back as 2003, and unfortunately remained unresolved until this panel was set up.” He also noted that property were vandalised in four local government areas of Akure South, Ondo West, Odigbo and Okitipupa. The retired judge called for a review of Section 84 of the Sheriffs and Civil Process Act, (2004) to enable judgement creditors to enjoy the fruit of their litigations. He said, “Apart from the monetary recommendations, which totalled at the sum of N755,730,897. 88, the panel equally recommended publication of apologies in national dailies particularly where the reputation of victims had been tarnished. “Another issue which became thorny was on the cases which had been decided by courts of competent jurisdiction, but were brought before the panel for lack of payment of judgement debts.” In his remarks, the state Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, who commended the committee for doing a thorough job, said his administration would do justice to the report. The governor, however, lamented the worsening security situation in the country after the EndSARS protest, saying those who used the protest to settle political scores like the burning of both secretariat of the APC and the PDP in Ondo State would bear their cost. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com