The National Security Adviser, Major-General Babagana Monguno (retd.), on Friday said the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), was prepared to take “profound measures” in tackling the security challenges being witnessed across the country. He however did not disclose the nature of the measures. Monguno disclosed this in a statement he issued after a meeting Buhari had with the nation’s security chiefs at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo; Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha; Minister of Defence, Major-General Bashir Magashi (retd.); and National Security Adviser, Major-General Babagana Monguno (retd.), attended the meeting with the President. Others were the Chief of Defence Staff, General Lucky Irabor; Chief of Army Staff; Lieutenant-General Ibrahim Attahiru; Chief of Naval Staff; Vice Admiral Awwal Zubairu; Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Oladayo Amoo; and the acting Inspector General of Police, Usman Baba. The meeting was held amidst the spate of violence and insecurity that have rocked the nation recently, with many concerned citizens calling for drastic action from the President. Irked by the development, the House of Representatives had during the week called on the President to declare a state of emergency in the nation’s security sector. On Thursday, the Peoples Democratic Party added its voice to the House’s call for the President to declare a state of emergency on security. The party urged Buhari to convene a national conference on security to proffer solutions to the security crisis bedevilling the country. In his statement titled ‘Statement by the National Security Adviser after today’s National Security Council meeting,’ Monguno quoted Buhari as saying at the meeting that he had no doubt that security agencies will overcome all the current security problems. The NSA said the meeting was adjourned till Tuesday to allow the President receive more briefings from the security chiefs. The statement read, “Concerned about the persisting security challenges in parts of the country, Mr President summoned a crucial meeting of the National Security Council today (Friday) as he continues to frontally confront the situation in the country. “At today’s meeting, the President made it abundantly clear that while the insurgents, bandits and criminals are still at it, he has no doubt that the Nigerian security agencies and all of us as a nation will certainly overcome all the current security problems and defeat the forces of evil marauding about in different parts of the country. “While the criminals continue to test the will of the Nigerian government, the President and the council which adjourned today’s critical meeting until Tuesday morning to receive further briefings from the security chiefs, are set and determined to decisively end the assault on the nation and will do all that it takes. “Mr President is very prepared to take profound measures in the wider interest of the people and the Nigerian nation. There shall be no relenting until peace and security are significantly restored in our communities.”