The founder of Irede Foundation, Mrs Crystal Chigbu, has said people suffering from diabetes and congenital deformity are at the risk of being amputated when involved in an accident. Chigbu, at a briefing, also lamented the stigmatisation and discrimination of people living with limb loss. She said, “When you check what causes amputation in general, congenital deformity is about three to four per cent; diabetes is the highest-ranking cause with about 34 per cent; next is trauma which could have been avoided. When an accident occurs, people believe they can arrange bones and by the time they get to the bone setter, it becomes another story entirely. Chigbu said the foundation had in the past eight years engaged in public enlightenment programmes and increased awareness on the plight of people living with limb loss. “Stigma is one thing we are still fighting and what we have done that in the last eight years. What we are doing is creating awareness and sensitising people to make them know that disability is not the making of the person living with it. Disability is not taboo. There are a lot of messages we are putting to the public space to make sure discrimination and stigmatisation of people with limb loss can get to the barest minimum. “The government has made a law for persons living with disability and we are currently working on that law to help the society understand it. We are organising a programme with the families of the amputees and the caregivers where we will be connecting physically and virtually where they can share their issues,” she said. Chigbu added that the non-governmental organisation had given out over 186 prosthetic legs and engaged over 300 families in Nigeria since its establishment. “We will continue to educate, engage, influence, and provide empowerment by giving prosthetic limbs so that children suffering limb losses can go back to school. We do psychotherapy, ensuring 100 per cent wellness for the amputee at the end of the day. More importantly, what we also do is to inspire action,” she said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com