Following the staging of a successful seminar for women, the Lagos State Judo Association is aiming to bring in more females to take up the sport for self-defence in the state. Speaking at the one-day seminar organised by LSJA, in collaboration with Tinubu Support Organisation, at the Mobolaji Johnson Sports Complex, Rowe Park, LSJA chairman, Sheriff Hammed, said the aim of the seminar was to involve more women, in their efforts to popularise the sport. “This seminar is part of our efforts to revive judo in Lagos and we are using the seminar and judo exhibition to create awareness about violence and sexual harassment against women because of what is happening around the society,” Hammed said. “This is part of our mission to improve the sport and probably get more female athletes to participate in judo. So, this is to enlighten the public and educate our girls about the art of self-defence using the sport to tackle happenings in our society. “This will not end here, it is actually a journey because from here we will go to schools across the five divisions of Lagos and educate girls about sex education, violence and abuse. By this, we will encourage them to participate in judo and get a lot of athletes for Lagos State. We will organise a lot of competitions so that athletes can be engaged and busy.” TSO coordinator, Niyi Gbodimowo, said their partnership with LSJA was aimed at improving the fortunes of judo in Lagos. “With this partnership we believe we can help develop the sport and give back to the youths. One of the objectives is to increase the number of people in judo in Lagos and measure our success. So far, we have seen over 150 women who indicated interest in judo and we are going to get more, like 500 or 1000 new people registering, so that the state can produce world beaters,” Gbodimowo said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com