THE United Nations panel of experts has condemned the continued detention of an atheist, Mubarak Bala, who has been in detention for over a year without trial despite a Federal High Court order for his release. Bala, who is the President of the Humanist Association of Nigeria, was arrested at his home in Kaduna State on April 28, 2020 for his anti-Islam Facebook posts following a petition by a lawyer, S.S Umar. He was subsequently taken to Kano State where the petition emanated. According to sworn affidavits, the police in Kano State denied Bala access to his lawyers for several months. Amid protests from several human rights organisations, including Amnesty International, the police filed a First Information Report before a Magistrate Court in No Man’s Land, Kano, accusing Bala of breaching the Cyber Crime Act in order to obtain a remand order. However, no date was given for arraignment, thereby allowing the cops to hold him for months before transferring him to a correctional centre in Kano. A fundamental human rights suit was filed before Justice Inyang Ekwo of a Federal High Court in Abuja who ordered the immediate release of Bala on December 21, 2020. However, Bala remains in custody till date, even as courts nationwide are now on strike. A group of seven UN human rights experts on Wednesday condemned Nigerian authorities for a “flagrant violation of fundamental human rights. “Today marks one year since Mr Bala was arrested and detained in Kano State without any formal charges, on allegations of blasphemy. His arbitrary detention has continued despite our appeals to the government in May and July last year,” they said. They added that the matter was causing “a chilling effect on the exercise of fundamental freedoms in Nigeria.” “Through his continued detention, the government is sending the wrong signal to extremist groups that the silencing and intimidation of human rights defenders and minority non-believers is acceptable,” they added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com