The Executive Secretary of National Sugar Development Council, Mr Zacch Adedeji, has said the Backward Integration Programme roadmap of the council will address the soaring unemployment level and other socioeconomic issues bedeviling the country. The BIP roadmap, which is designed for the nation’s sugar industry, is a major component of the Nigeria Sugar Master Plan, according to a statement issued by the council on Wednesday. Adedeji, who said this while on a familiarisation visit to sugar refineries in Lagos State, linked violent crimes and insecurity to rising unemployment and joblessness among youths in the country. According to him, the sugar sector, as presently structured, has what it takes to provide direct and indirect jobs for millions of Nigerians both as skilled and unskilled workers. He said, “The sugar sector is a goldmine that holds numerous potential and opportunities for Nigeria and Nigerians. “It is a sector that has provided direct and indirect jobs for thousands of our citizens across disciplines and professions. We are all concerned about the need to provide job opportunities for our people, especially our youths. “Unemployment is a major contributor to the various social crises facing us today as a country. This is why the President Muhammadu Buhari Administration is desirous and committed to revamping the sugar industry to enable it to absorb our citizens and contribute meaningfully to the economy and the country in general.” The NSDC boss assured investors in the sugar sector of government’s support, in terms of policy and technical assistance. He, however, urged them to redouble their efforts in the faithful implementation of the BIP for the sugar sector, which he described as crucial to Nigeria’s quest to attain self-sufficiency in sugar production. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com