The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Uche Secondus, says the much-expected 2023 general elections is not realistic if the worsening security situation persists in Nigeria. He stated this on Thursday at the Emergency meeting of the party’s National Executive Committee at the Wadata Plaza in Abuja. Secondus, therefore, urged the All Progressives Congress government of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to constitute a National Security Conference immediately to address the insecurity in the country. He said, “Our country today is grounded by insecurity and there has been no matching response from government despite the demands of the 1999 operating constitution in section 14 sub section (2b) that “the welfare and security of the citizens shall be the primary purpose of government”. READ ALSO: Govt should deal with terrorists killing Fulani herders in South-East –Miyetti Allah “Terrorists in the North before were confided to the North East region but today 50 villages have been reportedly taken by them in North Central state of Niger. Where they are now, we hear is about two hours drive away from Abuja. Herdsmen are also menacing in the West, Gunmen causing havoc in the East and the militants in the South all killing, looting, raping, maiming and burning down homes. The situation is bad, Nigerians all over are living in fear. “Clearly, anarchy is being let loose on the people with the government unable to provide any resistance. We have therefore invited you to enable the party as the main opposition in the country add its voice to the worrisome situation with a view to saving not just democracy but even the country. “Having shown clearly its incapacity, the APC led-government has swallowed its pride and now invited international community to come and help out. This ought to have been done long ago instead of pretending and spilling innocent blood. “For us as opposition, any sacrifice to stop the endless bloodletting of innocent citizens should be activated including but not limited to immediate convocation of National Conference on security for a comprehensive and all embracing deliberations on the future of this country. “All the ‘noise’ for 2023 will amount to naught if the security challenges are not drastically addressed. “I therefore invite NEC to note on this very critical matter with a view to offering the necessary advice to the government at all levels for prompt solution. “This has become necessary as nothing, not even 2023 is realistic if security issues are not adequately addressed.”