Kwara State University, Malete, is set to boost its power supply with the installation of N114m solar power system in the institution. The grant is part of the N600m awarded by the European Union and the Lithuanian government to install a 300 kilowatt of solar power project in the institution. The Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof. Mustapha Akanbi, said this at the kick-off of the installation of the solar power system equipment in the Institution on Saturday. Akanbi said that the solar power system would aid the institution in achieving its mandates of teaching, research and community development. He added that it would enhance security of lives and property on the campus. According to him, on completion of the installation of the solar energy equipment, KWASU solar farm will generate an additional 300kw of electricity. This, he said, would be a match to the 300kw of electrical energy which the farm is currently generating. The Director, Centre for Sustainable Development, Professor Kajogbola Ajao, said that the solar equipment was gotten through the efforts of a staff of the centre, Mr Teslim Balogun. Ajao said that the grant was won through a proposal written and defended by a staff of the institution, adding that the solar panels would boost the power generation from the solar farm from its present 300kw capacity to 600kw. “What the new VC met on ground was a system that have low energy component in power supply. Through the effort of the past administration, we were able to attract 240kw of solar system from tetfund, and another 60kw from Needs Assessment programme, making 300kw. One of the first thing the new VC did was to create center for sustainable energy to be able to aggregate all energy components and add to the energy portfolio of KWASU”, he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com