The Southern Kaduna Peoples Union has said it was saddened by the killing of the harmless university students by bandits, adding that the state was now ‘leaderless’ under the administration of Governor Nasir El-Rufai. The killing of two more students of the Greenfield University, Kaduna, occurred on Monday a few days after bandits kill three of the abducted students. The state Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr Samuel Aruwan, broke the sad news on Monday. He said, “On a sad note, security agencies have just reported to the Kaduna State Government the recovery of two more dead bodies of Greenfield University students, killed by bandits today, Monday 26th April 2021. “The retrieved corpses have been evacuated to a mortuary, and the university has been notified of the development.” Reacting, SOKAPU’s Spokesman, Luka Binniyat,  in an interview with The PUNCH, said, “We are saddled with bands of maniacal murderers and desperate outlaws who are taking full advantage of a leaderless state that cares nothing about the welfare and security of its citizens.” Also, the pan-Northern sociopolitical organisation, the Arewa Consultative Forum, said the latest killing of the abducted students of the Greenfield University was the worse form of terrorism that befell the country. The National Publicity Secretary of the Forum, Emmanuel Yawe, reacting on behalf of the ACF, asked how the President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari(retd), and the Kaduna State Governor, Malam Nasir El-Rufai, felt about the latest killing of the students. The ACF’s Spokesman said, “This is the worst form of terrorism and barbarism ever visited on Nigeria. How much was used to set up the university that the terrorists are demanding N800m as ransom? The people committing these heinous crimes are they Northerners, are they Nigerians? “What are the federal and state governments doing to stop this human waste? Our members want to know how el Rufai the Governor of Kaduna and Muhammadu Bihari feel about these tragic turn of events. The ACF feels and shares the pains of Nigerians in these tragic developments.” On its part, the Coalition of Northern Groups, described the killing as “regrettable” and “avoidable” if Nigeria had a listening government. The group said having a leader such as Governor Nasir El-Rufai who could not be advised or criticised, was a liability. The CNG’s Spokesman, AbdulAzeez Suleiman while reacting to the killing, told one of our correspondents on Monday, that the group had resolved to intensify pressure including mass protest to force the Kaduna government to reason. CNG’s spokesman said, “We find the killing of two more students of Greenfield University quite regrettable but avoidable if we have a listening government. Unfortunately, we have a government in place that has stubbornly refused to heed genuine advice on its handling of the deteriorating security situation in Kaduna state. “We have all along pointed out that leaders, such as the ones we have in Kaduna, who would not be advised or criticized are certainly a liability.”