The outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra has criticised Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State and the Department of States Services, saying the claim that it imports arms and ammunition into Imo State remains laughable and fake. The DSS, on Wednesday, alleged that the group was moving arms and other explosive devices to Imo to destabilise and attack Governor Hope Uzodinma and his administration. The secessionist group, however, argued that it was not a terrorist organisation that resorted to explosive devices in the course of its operations, but that “right from inception, IPOB remains a peaceful movement.” In a statement by the group’s Director of Media and Publicity, Emma Powerful, a copy of which was made available to Saturday PUNCH on Friday, IPOB accused the DSS of telling lies and directed the agency to go after the abodes of Boko Haram, bandits and Fulani terrorists. It read, “The attention of IPOB ably led by our great leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, has been drawn to the frivolous and concocted press statement by the DSS that IPOB is moving explosive devices from Lagos to Imo State. This is another propaganda by the agency to blackmail IPOB. “There is no iota of truth in the said report. It’s fake and laughable. IPOB has no intention of acquiring explosives. We are not terrorists and do not need explosives. Right from inception, IPOB has remained a peaceful movement. We know the antics of DSS and other Nigeria security agencies. “They only want to demonise IPOB and other Biafran agitators to stain our global reputation. It’s only laughable that DSS cannot find the bandits, Boko Haram and other Fulani terror groups in Nigeria but it easily concocted intelligence about IPOB and freedom fighters. “No fewer than 30 innocent Biafrans have so far been arrested and taken to (an) unknown destination. The Nigeria government should ensure nothing untoward happens to these Biafrans. They must answer for their whereabouts!” Meanwhile, the leadership of IPOB has warned the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria that should it make good on its threat to kill any of its members, the association would cease to exist. Kanu, in a statement made available to journalists by Powerful on Thursday night, was reacting to MACBAN’s threat on Thursday that it would avenge the death of any Fulani herdsman killed in the South-East by Kanu. He said, “Miyetti Allah, hear this: IPOB is not South-East governors that you can threaten and get away with. We are the same IPOB that collapsed the #Zoo. We are after every killer herdsman. We’re after you Fulani terrorists and murderers masquerading as herdsmen. “If you implement this your threat, it shall be your last. We no longer believe in turning the other cheek; it is now blood for blood and you will lose.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com