The outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra, on Saturday, blamed South-East governors for persistent herdsmen attacks on communities, decrying the governors’ inability to clamp down on the herdsmen who allegedly attacked policemen and government officials in Enugu on Thursday. IPOB said Thursday’s attack by the AK-47-wielding herdsmen in Enugu was a further confirmation of its earlier warning that terrorist Fulani herdsmen had taken over the South-East region. Suspected herdsmen had on Thursday evening attacked government officials and destroyed a police vehicle at the New Artisan Market axis of Enugu, Enugu State capital. State government officials were said to have gone to the market to demolish some structures following an order of the State High Court which reportedly declared the market a security threat because of its proximity to the Government House. IPOB, in a statement on Saturday signed by its Director of Media and Publicity, Emma Powerful, said, “It’s only in states governed by cowards that security agents and government officials on lawful duty will be attacked by terrorists and no action will be taken against the assailants. “Even when the AK-47-carrying terrorists harboured in the market have been disowned by the cattle sellers in a British Broadcasting Corporation Igbo interview, the security agencies have refused to go after them. “As we still ponder on what must have gone wrong between the two former allies, many questions agitate our minds all at the same time. Why has the crying governor in charge of Enugu State refused to mobilise the 82 Division Nigerian Army, and the police commissioner to deploy their men against the marauders? Where are the military tanks they used in shelling unarmed Biafran agitators and Igbo youths conducting morning exercise at Emene where scores were sent to their untimely grave? “Where is the DSS that specialises in abducting unarmed Biafran agitators? Where are the military jets searching for Eastern Security Network personnel and bombing innocent Biafrans at Orlu?” IPOB said it was time for the South-East regional security network Ebube Agu to go after Fulani militia herdsmen at the Artisan Market. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com