Orange-One Finance Limited says it has continued to fulfill its mandate of providing seamless financial services across the nation, four years after its inception. In a statement on Monday, the wholly-owned subsidiary of Investment One Financial Services Limited said it was licensed on December 7, 2016 by the Central Bank of Nigeria to serve as a finance company. The Managing Director, Orange-One Finance, Iyobosa Iyamu, said,  “From the days our doors were opened for business, we do engage our customers – individuals as well as SMEs – in building a beneficial relationship that helps us partner with them in achieving their financial and business goals.” She said the team of professionals in the company had been very passionate and committed in driving the goals by creating innovative, flexible and timely products. “Our vision is to become the leading provider of financial solutions to SMEs and individuals in Africa and our purpose in the industry where we operate is to deploy world-class financial services and appropriate technology in helping our customers achieve their financial goals,” Iyamu said. She explained that there were six major areas the company had met the needs of its customers since inception. According to Iyamu, employees in the formal sector had found Orange-One suitable place for them to get help for their urgent financial needs. Customers in this category could access a personal loan of up to N15m with a repayment period ranging from three months to 18 months, she said. According to her, these categories of loans are secured by proof of employment and may not require collateral but would require a guarantor(s) depending on the amount. “Asset finance is an extended rental agreement where the asset financed belongs to the financier until the lease has been fully paid down through monthly lease payments,” Iyamu said. She said SMEs that had been in operation for at least two years had been enjoying the privilege of accessing working capital loan that could be used to enhance their business operations and profitability. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com