The Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has said the state government will continue to collaborate with foreign investors and development partners to promote entrepreneurship among the youths. Sanwo-Olu, who spoke when he received the management of the European Business Organisation Nigeria led by its President, Mr Adefolu Majekodunmi, at Lagos House, Marina, explained the partnership would also assist the youths to get support. He, therefore, urged the organisation to support the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund, as a deep intervention model to support and produce entrepreneurs in digital, agriculture, creative and construction industries. “We are open and willing to continue to partner with all of our international investors and development partners all over the world. And I am sure the European Union is an important component of that. “We can indeed deepen that relationship. We believe that the relationship is an opportunity for us to see how we can help the youths and look at direct support in terms of entrepreneurship for some of them and areas where we think we can collaborate,” the governor said on Friday in a statement titled, ‘Sanwo-Olu: Lagos’ll deepen relationship with investors, development partners …as European Business Organisation promises to partner with LASG in digital economy, others,’ and signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile. He said the state government was building several infrastructure within the state to aid business activities, in addition to high-level conversations to solve issues surrounding the Apapa gridlock, especially issues relating to the ports in the area. While urging the European Business Organisation Nigeria to consider the opportunity in the Lekki Free Trade Zone, which would commence operations next year, the governor explained that part of the medium and long-term solutions to the Apapa gridlock was to have another port outside Apapa and decongest tank farms in the area. “I will advise you as EBO to look at the opportunity in the Lekki Free Trade Zone area. There are two free zones in Lekki – Lekki Free Trade Zone and Lagos Free Zone. A lot of companies are already in the zones. We are putting a lot of infrastructure there; internal and external roads are coming up there. Power and other things are also coming up there,” he added. Earlier, the president of the organisation, said EBO, which operates from 45 countries, was willing to work with Lagos State in human capacity development, training, sustainability and digital economy. Majekodunmi was quoted as saying, “European businesses in Nigeria are very keen to invest in Nigeria, particularly in Lagos State, which is the investment destination of Nigeria. We want to work with Lagos State in a number of areas, particularly with regards to human capacity development, training, sustainability, digital economy and investments in certain areas, such as infrastructure, transportation, telecommunication, electricity, hospitals and suchlike.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com