Under Prime Minister Imran Khan, who promised a `naya Pakistan` to his people, two very distinct, different Pakistans have emerged –one that is owned by the rich and influential, persons like him, and the other which remains impoverished, faces the wrath of the state and its proxy militant groups and mullahs, and has little hope of a better future. The first class is about 20 per cent of the population, earning half of the total income generated in the country, and the rest 80 per cent struggling to corner what is left. This is the essence of the findings of the latest National Human Resource Development report released early this month. The report talked about “two different Pakistans” which shows a grim picture of inequality –there is one group with “a multitude of opportunities to pursue quality education, secure responsive health care, and live off generational wealth; and the other, without even the bare minimum.” The report revealed that Pakistan’s rich enjoy privileges worth over Rs2,660 billion (in 2017-2018) which is equivalent to seven per cent of the country’s GDP. These privileges include favorable pricing, lower taxation, and preferential access. As against this lavish state generosity enjoyed by the rich, the state spends a mere Rs 624 billion on social welfare programmes for the underprivileged. In other words, while the rich in Imran Khan’s Pakistan corner most of the privileges offered by the state to its people, the poor face great hardship in accessing even the most basic needs, like education, health care and other facilities. This leaves the poor with no resources or state support to help them to emerge out of hapless poverty. On top of it, the Imran Khan government granted Rs 20 billion in tax relief to the wealthiest class, which was 40 per cent of the amount of tax it would collect from the middle classes. Those who benefited from these tax reliefs included largest banking, cement, car manufacturing, textile, fertiliser and food companies whose owners were amongst the wealthiest individuals in the country. Not only are the poor in great distress, the NHDR report finds that “the plight of Pakistan’s middle class is worsening.” In 2018-2019, only 36 per cent of the population was middle class whereas 10 years ago, the percentage of the middle class was 42 per cent. The report said the middle class was being squeezed to the bottom of the pyramid under the onslaught of inflation, unemployment among educated workers, and decreasing purchasing power parity. This gross inequality is reflected in more grimmer figures in the poorest of provinces, Balochistan. The province, biggest in terms of geographical area, had a per capita income second only to Sindh at the turn of the century. Today, it has the lowest share of the country’s population, and the lowest performance on human development indicators. Balochistan remains not only riven by violence and strife but also extreme poverty and inequality, a reality which the China Pakistan Economic Corridor project could not alter. What the Imran Khan government has been trying to brush under the carpet is the real consequence of the spiralling inequality among its citizens. There has been a shocking increasing in suicide rates in the most deprived parts of the country with women and the youth figuring high on the list of victims. In Sindh alone, for instance, 1,300 suicides have been reported in the past five years. In 2018, 81 per cent of those who were forced to take the extreme step belong to the lower income groups with reasons for suicide ranging from poverty, unemployment, debt, forced marriages, violence to lack of basic facilities of life. Various studies have shown a close link between inequality and social cohesion. There has been a phenomenal rise in domestic strife, street violence, ethnic conflicts in impoverished regions of Pakistan in recent times. Studies have proved time and again poverty and lack of opportunities as principle reasons of rising terrorism and militancy in the country. No glib talk can absolve Prime Minister Imran Khan of his singular failure to give hope to his poor citizens. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com