A number of Nollywood stars have expressed their displeasure over their colleague, Olarenwaju James, aka Baba Ijesha, alleged sexual assault of a 14-year-old girl under the care of comedienne, Adekola Adekanya, aka Princess. On Thursday, April 29, actress, Dayo Amusa, had shared a video on her Instagram page, lending her voice to the issue. She said, “I am making this video based on some comments I saw on my last post. We all need to be guided. I have come to realise that some people actually feel that post indicates that I am trying to play safe on the issue of Baba Ijesha and Princess. They then asked me to make my stand known. I really don’t expect anybody to come on my page and be asking me, ‘Where do I stand’? The fact that I have not come out to say anything about the issue doesn’t mean I don’t know where I stand. Any rapist doesn’t have any justification. Whoever commits a crime has to face the consequences.” Another actor, Femi Branch, stated that there was a curse on anyone that supported Baba Ijesha. He said,  “There is a curse on anyone that comes out to say something in support of Baba Ijesha and what he did. Princess or the child in question does not have to curse you. But, the curse is already hanging on your head automatically.” Meanwhile, Iyabo Ojo and Yomi Fabiyi had taken each other to the cleaners over the issue. Fabiyi had shared a message on Instagram, urging his colleagues not to be in a hurry to crucify Baba Ijesha. He added that before they criticised their colleague, they should ensure that law enforcement officers had done their investigations. However, in a reaction to Fabiyi’s post, Ojo did an Instagram live video where she cursed Fabiyi, and said that she was ready to see the case to its logical conclusion. She maintained that even if any of her family members committed such act, she would call the person out and not support them. Also on Thursday, Princess, Ojo and some other women visited the State Criminal Investigation Department (Panti), Yaba, Lagos, to protest over the alleged plan to release Baba Ijesha on bail. The police had said the offence was a ‘bailable’ one and they did not have to hold the suspect indefinitely. Meanwhile, Princess has accused a certain Saheed of going to Panti to seek the release of Baba Ijesha. Shortly after, popular actor, Saidi Balogun, in reaction to the allegation said in a video on his Instagram page, “I am totally against rape, not to talk of it happening to a minor. I am totally against child molestation. I have been on set. I have never been to Panti and I have never spoken to Baba Ijesha.I kept mute because I want the law to take its course. Am I the only person that did not talk? I support what the women are doing. Please don’t involve my name.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com