The Central Bank of Nigeria has alerted its staff of plans by persons it described as undesirable elements planning to infiltrate state capitals and the Federal Capital Territory to perpetrate crimes. In an advisory to its workforce, issued by the bank’s Security Services Department and dated April 28, 2021, the CBN stated that the undesirable elements were planning to abduct people for ransom. In the advisory with Ref No: SSD/BSO/INT/UCD/01/072, which was seen by our correspondent, the bank said, “We write to inform all staff to take note of the elevated security alert condition around the country and of the need to take special care in their day to day activities. “Security intelligence reports have informed of plan by undesirable elements to infiltrate various parts of the country particularly, state capitals and the FCT with the intention to perpetrate crimes of abduction and kidnapping for ransom or as recruits for terrorism.” The bank added, “It is strongly suspected that these activities are likely to be carried out in the evenings and at night.” The apex bank stated that it was in the light of the foregoing that all staff were advised to exhibit extra caution while at home, enroute work or other locations. It said workers of the bank should be more observant of activities suggestive of abnormal happenings as to avoid falling victim. It said staff should limit all social engagements to those that were absolutely necessary. The bank urged its workers to retire home immediately after office hours and take special care to ensure that their homes were sufficiently secure by way of reinforced doors and locks. “Avoid public drinking places and restaurants after (work) hours. Maintain very low profile and remain as inconspicuous as possible,” the bank stated. It added, “Branches to close on official schedule times to enable staff leave for their homes. Avoid all travels (air or road) except absolutely necessasy and contact heads of security at the location of travel for additional advisory.” The bank encouraged its workforce to keep contact numbers of relevant security agencies within reach for them and other family members. Sources at the Abuja headquarters of the Bank told our correspondent on Thursday that the advisory was already being adhered to as most workers of the bank ensured that they closed and left the CBN premises at about the closing hour.