OPERATIVES of the Department of State Security on Monday reportedly grilled the leader of an Osun-based socio-cultural group, Kiriji Heritage Defenders, Dr. Ademola Ekundayo, over alleged plans by some groups to hold a rally and demand Yoruba nation in the state. The insinuations were rife that some groups were planning to hold a rally in Osun State to demand Yoruba nation. A top security source, who preferred anonymity, told our correspondent that Ekundayo was held by the DSS for over four hours, during which he was questions on the alleged plan to hold the rally. The PUNCH also learnt that Kiriji Heritage Defenders was suspected to be part of the groups behind the proposed rally, hence the invitation to its Director General. Oodua Peoples Congress, another group fingered as part of the proposed rally, however denied involvement. Osun OPC Coordinator, Deji Aladesawe, when contacted, said the group was not involved in the plan to hold any rally in Osun. In a chat with our correspondent in Osogbo, the DG, Kiriji Heritage Defenders, Ekundayo, confirmed that he was invited by the DSS, adding that he honoured the invitation. Ekundayo, who said the operatives grilled him on the allegations that some groups planned to hold Yoruba nation rally in Osun, also noted that his group was not part of any plan to organise a rally for the actualisation of a Yoruba nation in Osun. He said, “I was invited by the DSS. I was there for some hours on Monday. The security men are just being proactive. We are not secessionists in Kiriji Heritage Defenders. “They just wanted to be sure, regarding insinuations that some people plan to hold a rally to demand Yoruba nation in Osun. The decision for the rally to hold in Osun is beyond our group. “We are not criminals or collaborating with any criminal group. We will continue to work with other interested groups with similar mission in the interest of the Yoruba race.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com