The Executive Secretary of the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund, Mrs Tejumola Abisoye, has lauded the Lagos State governor for exhibiting unusual bravery in the face of daunting economic challenges to invest in massive infrastructural development. In a statement titled ‘LSETF boss lauds Lagos State Government on infrastructural development, economy’, she said this was even as the national economy was still recovering from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. The statement noted that the Lagos rail project would cost over N100bn, a project that was a first by any subnational government in Africa. Abisoye said the courage shown by the Lagos State government was the kind required to free the country and the continent from the shackles of economic slump and mass unemployment. She said, “I must say that I am particularly proud – as should every well-meaning Lagosians – of the unmatched fearlessness with which my principal, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, is leading the way. “He and the State Executive Council have chosen to implement massive physical projects that will surely pay dividends in the near future by creating favourable conditions to attract foreign direct investment in manufacturing, transportation and logistics, which will in turn create jobs for the teeming population. “This is the level of visionary excellence and commitment that economic experts the world over have posited will pull nations out of the doldrums brought about by the on-going pandemic. “We are glad to be a part of this story and urge other world leaders to take a cue from what Governor Sanwo-Olu is doing.” She said LSETF was ready to ride on the back of these projects to open up employment opportunities for the people of Lagos. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com