A consultant haemato-oncologist and founder of Marcelle Ruth Cancer Centre and Specialist Hospital, Lagos, Dr. Modupe Elebute-Odunsi, has solicited support for people living with cancer. Elebute-Odunsi, at the unveiling of the health facility, said Nigerians do not have to travel abroad to receive cancer treatment. She noted that the hospital would offer world-class cancer treatment to Nigeria and sub-Saharan Africa. “We built the Marcelle Ruth Cancer Centre & Specialist Hospital to help address the gap in the treatment and diagnosis of cancer in Nigeria. Patients who previously would have had to travel abroad to receive world-class treatment are now able to get the critical care they need here at home. Early detection is vital to the diagnosis and treatment of this disease,” Elebute-Odunsi said. The co-founder of the hospital, Bolaji Odunsi, said travel restrictions during the COVID-19 pandemic underscored the importance of in-country diagnosis of cancer and other chronic diseases. He said, “We are delighted to see our vision of the MRCC finally come to life. Our mission was simple; bring together an exceptional team of Nigerian medical professionals with international training and experience to deliver the highest quality care to patients here in Nigeria. This expertise supported by new technology now makes world-class treatment here in Nigeria possible and affordable.” The general manager of GE Healthcare in Sub-Saharan Africa, Eyong Ebai, said, “We are proud to continue supporting the development of Nigeria’s health care infrastructure. Our partnership with the Marcelle Ruth Cancer Centre and Specialist Hospital is a true landmark as it underlines the role that the private sector can play in delivering world-class health care delivery in the country. These new solutions are designed to expand capacity and improve quality for diagnosis and treatment at MRCC and help meet the needs of community within the country and region.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com