Stakeholders at a public hearing organised by the Senate Committee on Tertiary institutions and TETFUND on Thursday hailed the move by the red chamber to upgrade the Yaba College of Technology and the Federal Polytechnic, Ilaro to full-fledged universities The red chamber is also seeking legal status to the Nigeria French Village, Badagry. The three bills for the upgrade of the institutions were sponsored by Senator Solomon Adeola, an All Progressives Congress member, representing  Lagos West Senatorial District. The proposed legislations are, A bill for an Act to Provide for the Establishment of the Federal University of Technology Yaba; A Bill for an Act to Provide for Establishment of the Federal University of Technology,Ilaro; and a Bill for an Act to provide for Establishment of the Nigerian French Language as an Inter University Center for French Studies. The Chairman of the Senate Committee on Tertiary Institution and TETFUND, Senator Ahmad Babba Kaita, said the upgrade of the two institutions would balance access to education in Nigeria. Kaita, who was represented by his deputy, Senator Sandy Onor, also said that the approval of the inter-university centre for French language in Badagry would improve on the French Language proficiency and language skills required across professions at the global level. Adeola, who sponsored the bills said part of his legislative agenda was  to enhance and develop educational institution as well as human resources development. He added, “The approval of the bills will address the need to expand the opportunities for the teeming youths seeking admission into universities.” The senator noted that the upgrade of the institutions would address the issue of unemployment by providing education with potentials to create jobs by its products. Stakeholders from the host communities and the academic communities of the three institutions presented oral and written memoranda in support of the bills. Among them are the Olu of Ilaro and paramount ruler of Yewaland Ogun State, Oba Kehinde Olugbenle, who came with the five royal fathers namely; Onipokia of Ipokia Oba Olusola Olaniyan, Oba Adeyemi Adekeye, the Abepa of Joga Orile Yewa, Oba Ebenezer Akinyemi, the Eselu of Iselu, Oba Jaiyeola Agunbiade, the Alagbara of Agbara Yewa, Onimeko of Imeko, Oba Benjamin Olanite. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com