WITH one out of every three persons of working age unemployed, Nigeria is on the verge of a major social crisis. Already notoriously dubbed the world poverty capital, the self-styled ‘Giant of Africa’ is on its way to becoming the ‘world unemployment capital’ going by the latest report by the National Bureau of Statistics. In its report, ‘Labour Force Statistics: Unemployment and Underemployment,’ the NBS said Nigeria’s unemployment rate rose from 27.1 per cent in the second quarter of 2020 to 33.3 per cent in Q4 2020. This means that within three to six months, over 1.4 million more people became unemployed. In real terms, 23.2 million people out of the 69.7 million people that make up the labour force are unemployed. With the jobless rate now at 33.3 per cent, Nigeria may be on its way to displacing Namibia, which currently has the highest unemployment rate in the world at 33.4 per cent, according to Bloomberg. For a government that rode to power on the promise of creating an additional three million jobs every year, this comes as another debilitating blow. No doubt, the steady rise in the unemployment rate was exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic that began in 2020. It brought Nigeria’s oil-based mono-product economy to its knees and plunged the nation into a brief recession. Between 2016 and 2020, the unemployment rate quadrupled, while economic growth has been very slow. But there had been warning signs. PwC had last year predicted that the unemployment rate could hit 30 per cent by December 2020 on the back of the country’s low level of industrialisation, slow economic growth, low employability and quality of the labour force, slow implementation of the national labour policy, in addition to a lack of coordinating labour policies at the sub-national level. The Economic Sustainability Committee headed by the Vice-President, Yemi Osinbajo, had also projected that the unemployment rate may rise to 33.6 per cent or 39.4 million persons if a quick economic revival response was not put in place. Unfortunately, the Federal Government failed to take the needed proactive steps. Rather, it relied on superficial and artificial interventionist programmes like the N-Power and the newly conceived 774,000 public works scheme, which will gulp N52 billion and provide casual employment for youths and supporters of politicians for three months. Such an insensate approach to job creation can never ignite productivity and economic growth. As Nigeria’s future continues to look bleak, this is not the time for government to be creating jobs on paper, taking a lazy approach to governance and implementing phoney economic ideas and policies which provide a specious sense of commercial growth. It is time for critical and purposeful policy decisions to be made. Unfortunately, like many before him, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has failed to effectively diversify the economy, and the country’s fortune and misfortune remain tied to the international price of crude oil. But there are many low hanging fruits which Buhari has failed to take advantage of nearly six years after assuming office. Nigeria must begin an aggressive privatisation and liberalisation drive to stimulate the economy rather than continue to take billion-dollar loans for white elephants like refurbishing dead refineries. The Federal Government is taking on too many responsibilities and preventing economic renaissance through its gross incompetence. There are real examples of how economic liberalisation can save an economy. For instance, before 2001, Nigeria had less than 700,000 telephone lines and the Nigerian Telecommunications Limited, the state-owned monopoly, could not meet demand. This handicapped the economy and slowed down trade, but the liberalisation policy of President Olusegun Obasanjo revolutionised the telecoms sector, stimulating an unprecedented surge in investments. According to the Nigerian Communications Commission, the country now has 203 million telephone subscribers. The ICT and telecoms sub-sector was Nigeria’s saving grace when the oil-based economy took a beating at the height of the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, as it recorded the highest growth rate of all the economic sectors during the entire year, according to the NBS. Nigeria can replicate this in other areas, especially the transport sector. The ports and the rail assets ought to be privatised to attract Foreign Direct Investment. The government could also enter into partnerships with the private sector like it has done in the Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas, its biggest success story. The drive to improve the ease of doing business has also lost steam while executive orders that should drive the economy like 24-hour port operations have been ignored by the relevant agencies without consequence. This is not how to revive the ailing economy. But the Federal Government cannot be solely blamed for the rising unemployment. The NBS statistics showed that Imo reported the highest rate of unemployment with 56.6 per cent followed by Adamawa (54.9 per cent) and Cross River (53.7 per cent). Clearly, as PwC stated in its report titled, Nigeria Economic Alert, there is a lack of coordinating labour policies at the sub-national level. Most states lack the ingenuity to create jobs but would rather focus on establishing multiple agencies and inflating the wage bill while depending solely on the Federal Government for monthly allocations from the Federation Account to pay salaries. Consequently, only a handful of states, notably Lagos and Rivers, have been able to ramp up impressive Internally Generated Revenues. The distorted federal system Nigeria operates has also undermined economic growth. The system where oil revenues taken from a few states are shared inequitably by all, thereby killing any incentive to exploit other revenue sources like gold, bitumen, limestone and other mineral resources is counter-productive hence, the restructuring debate. The Federal Ministry of Mines and Steel Development had in a report stated that Nigeria loses about $40 billion annually in unexploited gold while the Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative said the Nigerian government earned only N416.32 billion from the solid minerals sector from 2007 to 2018. Such a system can only engender poverty and unemployment. Apart from direct initiatives at boosting economic growth, Buhari must also ensure that the rising insecurity – which has also had its toll on the economy – is curbed. The experience of the Niger Delta crisis over a decade ago which hampered investments in the oil sector and affected Nigeria’s oil output is also playing out in many states where wanton destruction and abductions by bandits are now on the rise. This has greatly affected the agricultural sector and mining activities and discouraged both local and foreign investment. With many foreign missions advising their citizens not to visit many states in Nigeria due to their volatility, investors are refusing to come in. Security however remains a condition sine qua non for any form of development. Any government that fails to protect its students and indeed its people is a failure through and through. With barely two years left to give Nigeria the much-needed ‘change,’ the Buhari regime must be transparent, creative and innovative. Taking 100 million Nigerians out of poverty goes beyond paying lip service to reforms. The government must walk the talk by taking concrete, intelligent measures. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com