Family members of the Oniraniken, Sagamu, Ogun State, Oba Adewale Adeniji, have disagreed with the traditional ruler over his alleged claim that a disputed farmland around Okerala, Simawa area of Sagamu, measuring over 4,500 hectares, was an inheritance from his forebears. It would be recalled that the Oniraniken had, for some time, locked horns with the people of Makun community, Sagamu, over the vast land The land reportedly covers about 14 communities such as Okerala, Kanuyi, Idarika, Ipa, Ewu Lisa, Alawun, Simawa and Igbo Iwaju, among others. The monarch had insisted that the land belonged to his Osoedu family as validated by an Ogun State High Court judgment of April 2018 and January 2020 The people of Makun community had however, at different times, insisted that the farmland was theirs and that the Oniraniken had allegedly been using land grabbers to chase their people away from the farmland and forcefully occupied it illegally. Both sides had also called on the Ogun State Government to set up a judicial panel of enquiry to unravel the truth behind this controversy. But, the matter took another dimension when family members of Oba Adeniji distanced themselves from claim of the traditional ruler that the land under dispute is that of the Adeniji family. Speaking with journalists, Pa Kayode Adeniji, who described himself as the eldest male in the Adeniji family, declared that it was an outright falsehood for Oniraniken to have said the land in question belongs to Adeniji family or one Osoedu that allegedly remains the “figment of imagination” of the traditional ruler The 81-year-old retired banker said, “Oba Adewale Adeniji and I are cousins; my mother and his father are of the same parentage and I was very close to my maternal grandfather, Pa Benjamin Adeniji, when he was alive. “He never for once told me that the Adeniji family has land in any of those communities under contention now, like my mother who happened to be his daughter. We used to know those communities as that of Makun and never that of Iraniken or one non-existent Osoedu family that I learnt Oba Adewale Adeniji has said owns this land. “He is only creating confusion where none should be at all and the onus is on the Ogun State government to call Oniraniken to order. He should be stopped from causing further crisis with his falsehood.” Also, 90 year-old Adebowale Erinle, whose father and Oniraniken’s grandfather were of the same parentage, said there was never a time she ever heard that her paternal lineage, the Adenijis, owned a parcel of land outside their homesteads, Araromi, around Tollgate, Sagamu and Ipofuwa, just around Sagamu interchange. However, Oba Adeniji said the submission of his paternal family members was nothing but “hogwash” because there was never a time he said the farmland under dispute was that of his father. He said, “This farmland is that of my mother’s family, the Osoedu, the lineage through which I became the traditional ruler of Iraniken community, Sagamu. “This is a land that two judgments of the Ogun State High Court of April 2018 and January 2020 validated to be ours. Whatever they say are pure lies and attempts to mislead members of the public. “Let me also add that all their shenanigans borders on the hatred they have for me because I embraced the stool of Oniraniken from my mother’s side, while they have decided to go with the stool of Ewusi of Makun from my paternal side but they should be told that no amount of intimidation or harassment will make me succumb to any of their strong-arm tactics.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com