Aminu Isah is the Permanent Commissioner II in charge of Hisbah and Shariah matters in the Bauchi State Shariah Commission. In this interview with ARMSTRONG BAKAM, he speaks on why the commission intends to repatriate commercial sex workers from Bauchi to their states and local governments of origin What informed the decision to organise a pre-Ramadan workshop for commercial sex workers in Bauchi State? We have been receiving complaints from various people across the state in respect of a particular area, which is Bayan Gari; most of the criminals disturbing people within the metropolis come from that area; a lot of atrocities are being committed there. Our girls from the town used to go there and do some things that are contrary to the dictates of the Islamic law. So, after we received those complaints, we decided to organise a meeting with the leaders of that area. Among the leaders we invited were the ward head, chairman of the area, chairmen of the various houses there. After several deliberations, we decided to take three steps: the first step was to organise a sensitisation workshop on the effects of their deeds, particularly in that area, which we just finished and it was very successful. During the workshop, we had an interactive session with the commercial sex workers in the area and a lot of them told us the reason why they engaged in such indecent acts; most of them told us that it was as a result of compulsory marriages; some complain that it was poverty that pushed them into engaging into this kind of activity. Besides that, we also invited prominent scholars, who preached to them, and we thank God that they understood and accepted all what we told them during the workshop. Some of them requested us to organise another workshop for them immediately after Sallah, which we call Goran Sallah. During our meeting with the stakeholders, we interviewed them on the number of houses, which the commercial sex workers were renting in that particular area, and we discovered that there were almost more than 30 houses, which the commercial sex workers used to rent and during that meeting, we also discovered that almost two third of these commercial sex workers came from various states, some from the southern part of Nigeria came to do this business, because that’s what they take it to be. When we heard that, we decided to start thinking of how to go about it and the first step we took was to discuss with my officers here in the commission and it was to see how we could come up with a repatriation programme even though in my capacity as a lawyer, I know that repatriation without the consent of any person is contrary to the provision of the Constitution, particularly Section 41. We had a similar case with the almajiri repatriation in various states, but some lawyers filed a case in court challenging such a decision. Finally, we agreed to organise a programme of repatriation with their consent, because we cannot compel anybody because of the constitutional right they have. We are going to do it in a diplomatic way after we finish the census and we get a comprehensive data of all the commercial sex workers resident in that area and the owners of those particular houses; we are going to repatriate them with their consent, but we will liaise with the state governments, where these people come from and hand them over to the various state governments, so that they can reunite them with their families; that is the second effort after the sensitisation workshop we had. For those who are indigenes of Bauchi State, we have the intention of taking them and handing them over to the local government chairmen, because our data collection will reveal where they come from and we are going to reunite them with their families through their local government chairmen. Those that we discover that it is poverty that compels them to engage in this kind of activity, we will seek the intervention of the Bauchi State Government to empower them so that they can be self-reliant in their day-to-day activities. Lastly, those who are interested in getting married, we will ask them to bring their suitors and we will ensure that we scrutinise them properly and ensure that they are God-fearing; we will also ensure that they do that not for the purpose of business or fraud, but we’ll look at these steps so that the aim of this programme will define its means. Will the government be responsible of marrying them off and will it be a mass wedding? Actually, we are still discussing that and we have not come to a conclusion yet. What we are trying to do first is to take their data and know who they are. They issue of marriage, when we come to that and it’s the option available, we will take it. You said you will repatriate the commercial sex workers, how do you intend to carry this out? We took a census of the number of houses located there and the number of people living there, because we discovered that there are more that 30 rented houses there at Bayan Gari. After doing that, we found, who the original owners are. We then designed a form and we will distribute to the owners of the houses so that they can give it to the commercial sex workers to fill, so that we can have their comprehensive data, which will contain their names, state of origin, local government and contact addresses. After we finish ascertaining the non-indigenes, we are planning to liaise with the states where they come from and hand them over to their families. Don’t you think that repatriating them to their states is a violation of their fundamental human rights? Section 41 of the Constitution says that every Nigerian has a right to stay in any section of the country where he wishes. The approach we are making is not a compulsory one but a diplomatic approach, because what they do is entirely prohibited in Bauchi State; if they cannot go back to their states, they must leave the areas, where they do this kind of thing, because they are graduating a lot of criminals. During the sensitisation workshop that we organised for them, if you see the number of women, who gave birth to children, they are always giving birth and in the future, they are likely to be a threat because they grow up there without parents; they don’t go to school and there are a number of criminals there and they will emulate what these criminals are doing. Looking at this threat to our state, we have a right to go and start arresting them but we said no because they are people like us and they have constitutional rights as citizens of Nigeria and we decided to use the diplomatic approach to reunite them with their families. You said that during your first visit to the area, you interacted with the girls there, what was it that you found out after your discussion with some of them? During my first visit, I shed tears because I saw small children there – some were barely five or six months old, because they are being breastfed by their mothers and they were given birth to in that area. So I actually had to shed tears and what came to my mind immediately was that the small children that were born in that place will actually be a threat to our state in the near future, because they may not have the opportunity of going to school or engage in any kind of business that will make them self-reliant. At the end of the day, they will be criminals and a threat to society and this touched my mind that first day I visited the place. During my interactions with them, I asked one lady if she knew the real father of the baby she was breastfeeding and she said no. She told me that at times, she slept with up to 10 men daily and there was no way she would be able to know who got her pregnant and these are the kind of things you find there. These are very pathetic and very touching issues. Most of the girls I interviewed there are between the ages of 15 and 25, and as a commission, will do everything possible to see that will bring an end to such in the society. Do you think their resort to prostitution is as a result of negligence by their parents or what do you really think is the missing link? For the parents, there is ignorance. For instance, how can you give birth to a child without taking good care of him/her? Before you came into this office today, I handled two cases and they had to do with the issue of forced marriages. One of the ladies was shedding tears and we invited both her father and husband, we told them that if they insisted that she should go back to her husband’s house, they would lose her, because she would never go and might end up running away from there and go to anywhere she wishes to. The issue of forced marriage is one of the things responsible for these kinds of things. Under the Islamic law, forced marriage is completely prohibited; there is no provision in the Quran or in the Hadith of the prophets that supports the issue of forced marriage, the consent of the lady and that of the parents must be sought before any step can be taken. Again, there’s the issue of poverty; there was this issue we entertained last year, where a lady, whose mother had died, got married to a driver, who travels a lot and sometimes stays for three months without coming back home. She was living with her stepmom and what they would survive on was a problem, because the man could not send money to them; she decided to come to Bauchi from Azare in the Katagum Local Government Area of the state. When she arrived, since she had never been to Bauchi, she met one guy at the motor park, who took her from there and rented a house for her at the Yelwa area of the state. He kept her there for one year and as I speak with you now, that lady is seven months’ pregnant and when the guy discovered that she was pregnant, he abandoned her; in fact, he beat her and warned her never to identify herself with him anymore. He denied the pregnancy. With this kind of scenario, you will find out that poverty is one of the things that motivate this kind of a thing, but we as a government, it is our duty to see how we can help them, because they are our citizens and we cannot abandon them. If we allow this kind of thing to continue, we’ll discovered that one day, the people of Bauchi will not be able to sleep with their two eyes closed. You said you will repatriate the commercial sex workers, what would you do if they refuse to be repatriated? We have two options; first, we will have a meeting with the owners of those houses where they stay, because our investigations revealed that the owners of these houses are people of Bauchi. So, we will contact them in a diplomatic way even though constitutionally, they have a right to own their properties and nobody can deny them, but as a Shariah state, these houses are accessories before the fact. Are there other places in Bauchi besides Bayan Gari where these atrocities are being committed and are you going to take the same action? Apart from Bayan Gari, we have been receiving a lot of reports that there are some hotels in the state that are hideouts and the most unfortunate parts are the married women, who also pay for their hotel rooms and commit a lot of atrocities there. There are hotels in other parts of the state, particularly Yelwa. As I said, initially we are not going to start with the aggressive approach. I have the intention of inviting all the hotel owners in Bauchi to a meeting with them in order to see how we can control the menace in our state. What is your commission doing to reduce forced and early marriages? We have the intention of commencing a kind of enlightenment through radio stations and other media outlets in the state for parents to know the implications of forced marriage, because we have been seeing the consequences in our commission. We have the intention of engaging the Ulamas and pastors to come and enlighten people on the implications of forced marriage. During our visit to that area, the woman we interviewed there told us that she came there as a result of forced marriage. Forced marriage has become the order of the day where a lot of women engage in these social vices as a result of this. Different scholars have different views about this issue of early marriage. What is your plan for their rehabilitation? These commercial sex workers made a special request during that workshop that we should come immediately after the Sallah for another sensitisation. During this sensitisation after the Sallah, we will engage experts that can rehabilitate them and help in changing their minds and thoughts away from what they are doing. After Sallah, definitely, we will commence their rehabilitation. If you are sending commercial sex workers to their states particularly the southern states. Are you not worried other states can send beggars and the destitute from Bauchi State in their states back to Bauchi? We want people to understand what we are saying. We are not concerned about repatriation but it is about reuniting these commercial sex workers with their families because the issue of repatriation contravenes Section 41 of the Constitution. We are only going to reunite them with their families and that too, is their own option.  The option is that if they agree to return to their families. It is not as if we are going to force them. If they agree to return, we will return them but if they refuse, they have a right to keep staying in Bauchi but not necessarily for them to continue with that commercial sex business. Let them find another business or thing to do, this is our position. For those who have interest in repatriating the destitute and beggars back to their states, that one is their own opinion and our position is still that that act contravenes Section 41 of the Constitution. Like I was reading a while ago that in Benue State, they want to repatriate the destitute and beggars and I see that it violates their constitutional rights, that’s if they do it forcefully and not optional. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com