Eko Atlantic says it is committed to its mission of achieving a green city by planting over 200,000 trees of different varieties and sizes. A statement titled ‘Eko Atlantic’s green city commitment: On a mission to plant over 200,000 trees’ said this reiterated the developer, South Energyx Nigeria Limited’s desire to build an environmentally friendly city. The city’s road network, drainage system, and other infrastructure also pointed to the green city mandate, it stated. It said, “As we commemorate Earth Day 2021, South Energyx Nigeria Limited, developer and planner of Eko Atlantic City, has restated its commitment to building an environmentally friendly city. “By planting over 200,000 trees, using energy-efficient building materials where possible, and developing well-planned roads and infrastructure, Eko Atlantic City is blossoming into a new city with a green future. “At least 30 varieties of trees and plants are grown in the company’s 45,000 sqm nursery in Eko Akete. Then, they are transplanted to Eko Atlantic City once they are ready.” All roads in the city, it stated, were lined with trees and shrubs, providing cleaner air and improving environmental quality. It said the streets were also lined with LED streetlights which consumed considerably less energy than regular sodium lamps. This way, it added, the city’s developers balanced both the need for quality infrastructure and environmental preservation. The Vice Chairman, Eko Atlantic, Ronald Chagoury Jr, said, “Alongside our commitment to planting trees, developers in the city are currently looking to implement solar power for their buildings which will increase the use of renewable energy in the city. “We are also constantly looking out for the latest technologies and techniques to further improve energy and resource efficiency within the city. “Some of these include smart buildings, efficient energy storage, and smart monitoring. We believe that we will achieve greater levels of energy efficiency as the city continues to develop.” In January 2020, Alpha1, the first office tower in the city, became the first building to be EDGE-certified by the International Finance Corporation, a member of the World Bank Group, it stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com