Some concerned members in Osun State chapter of the All Progressives Congress named ‘The Osun Progressives,’ have written the state governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, demanding investigation into the March 28 attack on the Personal Assistant to the Minister of Interior, Olateju Adunni, in Osogbo, by suspected hoodlums. The group also called for the probe of many violent crimes that recently occurred in the state with a view to bringing the perpetrators to book. The letter, copy of which was seen by The PUNCH on Sunday, was signed by the group’s chairman, Isa Adesiji, and the secretary, Sadique Olajide. Copies of the letter dated April 8 were also sent to a former governor of the state, Bisi Akande; the party’s state caretaker chairman, Gboyega Famoodun; and the Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Timothy Owoeye. The group expressed concern over the rising cases of security breaches in the state, saying cases of kidnapping in Iwaraja and Ibokun, cult attacks in Osogbo and the killing of six members of a family at a Fulani settlement near Wasinmi village, were having negative effects on the lives of the residents. The letter read in part, “The March 28 attack on the Personal Assistant to your predecessor who is the current Minister of Interior, Mr Olateju Adunni, gives us reason to feel sad and we are afraid of what may be coming. “By his account, which we believe your honour must have read, he declared it was an assassination attempt on him as declared by the assailants themselves. “The curious issue in his narration was that the venue of the attack was populated by APC stalwarts and members who were invited to celebrate the birthday of an honourable member. So, the whole event, the birthday party and the attack were that of the APC. “What should have provoked it? Have we reached a point in the APC whereby differences will be settled by assassination? If we do this to ourselves, who says the opposition PDP cannot latch onto it and deal with us severely?  We refer to some intra APC attacks that has happened in recent times and we wonder if we have morality to still refer to the PDP as the nest of killers?” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com