Despite the backlash Canadian superstar singer, Justin Bieber received in 2016 for rocking dreadlocks, the singer has once again posted a picture of himself on dreadlocks. This time, there are mixed reactions to his hairdo. The last time he was on dreadlocks, he was accused of cultural appropriation. However, the Changes singer, 27, posted photos on Sunday debuting the new look while on vacation with his wife Hailey Baldwin, People reports. One of the posts, Bieber captioned with palm trees emojis. He later shared a selfie on Monday showing off his dreadlocks without a caption. Bieber’s friends were fans of his new hairstyle, while many fans criticized it. “Swags crazy,” Jaden Smith wrote. Moises Arias, who also has his hair in dreadlocks, commented, “We twinning once more, tripled up with [Jaden].” Kyle Massey called Bieber a “living legend.” Rapper Lil Gnar added, “Dreads going up.” Fans, however, voiced their disappointment and once again accused the singer of cultural appropriation. “J, please educate yourself on culture [sic] appropriation…. You shouldn’t be wearing dreads… With Love,” one fan wrote. Another similarly said, “This is cultural appropriation… I know you can do better.” “UMM SIR WHAT IS – ,” one fan commented.(sic) “Didn’t you say you were educating yourself about Black culture so what is this foolery,” one person said, in reference to his social media post in June addressing the ways he’s “benefitted off Black culture.” In June, Bieber took to social media promising to “be part of the much-needed change” amid racial injustice. “I am inspired by Black culture,” the Peaches singer wrote. “I have benefited off of Black culture.” “My style, how I sing, dance, perform, and my fashion have all been influenced and inspired by Black culture,” Bieber continued. “I am committed to using my platform this day forward to learn, to speak up about racial injustice and systemic oppression, and to identify ways to be a part of much-needed change.” Amid backlash, he posted a video on Instagram captioned, “Being weird is fun’ if u r not weird I don’t like you.”(sic)