There are certain commentaries that the death of Chadian President Idriss Déby will affect Nigeria’s offensive against Boko Haram, considering that the late ruler was a major supporter of the anti-terrorism war. How do you think his death will affect the anti-Boko Haram war? Well, if a military commander dies in the battlefront, we won’t say the battle should not go on because the commander has died. In the case with Chad, someone has already taken over and he will carry on. It’s an unfortunate loss; he died gallantly in battle trying to ensure rebels don’t take over his country. Definitely, we will miss his immense contribution towards decimating the Boko Haram insurgency. Do you think Déby’s son, General Mahamat, will follow in the footsteps of his father by supporting Nigeria’s war against Boko Haram? It’s too early to start insinuating what his son would do. I don’t want to join those insinuating what the son would do or not do. Actually, the fears are that the reopened Chadian borders may lead to the smuggling of arms into Nigeria just like with the case with Libya when Muammar Gaddafi was killed. Are these situations similar? These are two different situations. The deaths of Gaddafi and Déby are actually two different scenarios. The legions fighting for Gaddafi were made of mostly non-Libyans and rebel factions. And when he died, the Libyans disbanded the unit. Most of the fighters were from the Sahel region, mostly Chadians, Tuaregs, Nigeriens, Sudanese, and others. So after the unit was disbanded, they all dispersed and migrated to many places, and because they had been used to fighting battles, it is not impossible that many of them joined Boko Haram. But the situation with Chad is different. We know we have porous borders, but the Chadian troops are likely to do more on the offensive, knowing that it is the action of the rebels that led to their leader’s death. No country will just sit down and watch and not do anything against the rebel group that was responsible. There is a belief in some quarters that Boko Haram terrorists metamorphosed into bandits now attacking schools and kidnapping schoolchildren in many northern states. Do you think so too? There is really no evidence that Boko Haram elements have transformed into bandits. If the activities of Boko Haram and bandits are anything to go by, which is to raise money, we can only say probably one is copying the tactic of the other. If we have Boko Haram who kidnapped large numbers of schoolchildren for money, and now we have bandits doing the same, I think they are just sharing similar tactics. As a retired major general, what should the country be doing to decimate banditry attacks? When you have a multidimensional situation like this, the approach can’t be unidirectional. It’s no longer only the security agencies’ responsibility but everybody’s to stop the attacks. Most of the issues that brought all of these are politically motivated. And now that the outcome has become injurious to virtually everyone, we need to apply all dimensions – political, military and others. Even media has a role to play in stopping the attacks. When the media publicises the bandits’ attacks so much, the bandits enjoy it and this emboldens them to do more. At the same time, I understand the media has the responsibility to report. But giving so much space to people wreaking havoc on the country is indirectly emboldening them. If the media doesn’t report the attacks as they occur, don’t you think it may let the government relax in tackling banditry? No, I’m not saying the media should not report. But they should not propagate the nonsensical thing the bandits are doing. When you write, ‘Bandits kidnap so-so schoolchildren,’ they enjoy the publicity and give them some faulty psychological victory. I’m not saying what the media is doing is bad; all I’m saying is that everyone is responsible. The media should not just report, they also have to do a lot of analytical engagements to support the efforts to decimate the people causing all these problems. Can the solution to end banditry ever be granting amnesty to bandits as being canvassed by some people? People who don’t have any political, social or economic agenda but whose only mission is to kill and kidnap for ransom can’t be given amnesty. How do you bring reprieve to the families of their victims? How do you comfort those whose life savings were wiped off and the families of those killed by the bandits? Many of the families of those who have lost their lives won’t recover from the trauma they are passing through for a very long time. What kind of amnesty do you want to give the criminals? Of course, when you give amnesty, you want to be sure that the criminals have been totally reformed. And then you would have monitored the individual over a period of time before giving them amnesty. To grant bandits amnesty overnight is a no-no. Some states governments did it in the past. Are they still not witnessing attacks? Is there any similarity between the government rehabilitating Boko Haram fighters and granting amnesty to bandits? There is a difference between rehabilitating prisoners of war and granting amnesty to people who you don’t have in custody to be able to reform. Most of the rehabilitated Boko Haram members voluntarily submitted themselves while some others who were arrested confessed that they were taken against their will. The government took a good time to take these people through an extensive rehabilitation programme, and when it was convinced that the people had been reformed to a large extent, it sent them back to their various communities. So rehabilitating ex-Boko Haram fighters who were prisoners of war and granting amnesty to bandits are two different things. Yes, some of the rehabilitated ex-Boko Haram fighters may have gone back to the sect, but at the same when you look at the Geneva Convention on how to deal with prisoners of war, the government’s job is to deal with them humanely and when you are convinced they have changed, you will give them their freedom and allow them to continue with their normal life. Lately, the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy Isa Pantami has been under fire for making some comments in the past supporting terrorist groups like Al-Qaeda and the Taliban. Do you think such comments should be disregarded by the government? Well, if you’d excuse me. I don’t want to make any comment on this. There are lots of expectations from the new security chiefs to contain widespread insecurity across the country. What advice would you give them to excel in their jobs? The question is like saying these people don’t know what they are doing. These are people who know their onions. As soon as they were appointed, they set out on their missions, they have their goals and they are already on them. So we would have to give them time to see how they redefine their missions. For me, they started on a good note and we need to support them. A former presidential adviser, Doyin Okupe, about a week ago said it was time for Nigeria to have a national summit on security. Do you agree with his view? That is his own view and everybody has the right to express their views. If the government feels his view should be taken and it takes it by organising a national summit on security, it’s all well and good. There is nothing wrong with organising a national security summit if it is geared towards what every stakeholder in Nigeria is discussing. Many people are blaming injustice by the government for the several secessionist agitations the country is witnessing. What’s your thought? Agitations don’t just happen, and when people say it’s the government’s fault, who are the government? Are they not the same people who voted in those in power? When people say it’s the government’s fault, we are looking at it as if the government is foreign. If the people are agitating, it means they want certain policies to either be reviewed or changed? However, when agitations become violent, it’s a different issue entirely. We’ve seen quite a number of jailbreaks in recent times, the latest being that of the correctional facility in Owerri, with over 1,700 escapees still at large. What are the consequences for us? It doesn’t spell good for the government and everyone. When gunmen attack correctional facilities and release inmates, it means they have ulterior motives. It is likely that a group of people are assembling armed men to carry out illegal actions and the easiest way to carry out their mission is to free criminals who they know very well. It doesn’t spell well. And, of course, it constitutes a major security risk. When you jail people for murder, armed robbery and other felonious offences and now they are out on the streets, it constitutes a real danger to the average citizen. On the grounds of recidivism, the tendency to commit other crimes will always be there. The South-West and South-East now have regional security outfits, namely Amotekun and Ebube Agu respectively, no thanks to incessant attacks on their people by Fulani militia herdsmen. What’s your position on these outfits’ establishment? All that this is pointing at is that the central policing system has become outdated. The central policing system can no longer deal with the splinter crime situations that we are having in Nigeria. Let’s look at Lagos State, for instance. If the state didn’t have LASTMA (Lagos State Traffic Management Authority), how do you think that the Nigeria Police would have been able to cope with the volume of traffic that is in Lagos? Yes, the police have the traffic management arm, but how many of them do you see? This is what informed the South-West and South-East to start forming auxiliary security outfits to deal with issues that are becoming more difficult for the central police to deal with. The Amotekun and Ebube Agu are to complement the police’s efforts. Take a local government with just 40 police officers and a DPO (Divisional Police Officer), how are they going to cover every space in that local government? These are the realities on the ground, and when you look at it, it’s virtually the states that are supporting the central policing system. States provide the central police with vehicles and rehabilitate the police stations. States take up a lot of the operational funding of the police. So if the states could do all these for the central policing system, which still has its own budget, why wouldn’t they do it with their own security outfits? If the states want their own police, all they need to do is to speak with one voice and tell their representatives at the National Assembly to move a motion to amend the provision in the constitution that gives only the Nigeria Police the power to man the whole country. Should these regional outfits be allowed to bear sophisticated arms, considering that their ‘enemies’ bear sophisticated weapons like AK-47? Well, if the outfits are able to get proper legal backing that allows them to carry proper weapons, why not? But as it is, they were formed to complement the police, and that’s why wherever Amotekun goes in the South-West, they have police teams that work with them. So far, I think it’s been working quite well. Police personnel and facilities have been frequently attacked in the South-East, making some people ask that a state of emergency be declared in some of the states. Do you think it has got to that level? No, I don’t think it has got to the level of declaring a state of emergency. After all, during the #EndSARS protests, hoodlums attacked several police stations and carted away their weapons. Yet, a state of emergency was not declared. What usually happens is that when there are attacks on police facilities like it is happening in the South-East, there is a problem in the offing and it should be nipped in the bud. I think the governors in the region took positive steps by condemning the attacks on the police establishments and military personnel. That is the way it should be. Once the political authority affirms it is not tolerating criminality, it will encourage everyone to know that what the attackers are doing is wrong. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com