THE Indigenous People of Biafra on Thursday said the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), was wooing its leader, Nnamdi Kanu, with a huge bribe to drop the Biafra struggle. Media and Publicity Secretary of the secessionist group, Emma Powerful, disclosed this in a statement sent to our correspondent in Awka, Anambra State. READ ALSO: Six Nigerian celebrities with gorgeous mansions He described as preposterous the allegation by a media aide to Buhari, Garba Shehu, that the renewed agitation for self-determination in the South-East was because the Federal Government had refused to share money to those behind the agitation. He said, “Federal Government has on several occasions but without success, attempted to buy over our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, making him some irresistible offers. “We wish to remind the Fulani Presidency that only a certified and unconscionable moron will ever equate money to the motive behind the growing agitation for self-determination across Nigeria. “If money is what we want, we know what to do to get more money. How many times in the past did our leader reject your financial inducements? “As a people, Biafrans are enterprising and we don’t think we are behind any region in terms of affluence and economic security despite the oppressive policies of this 97 per cent versus five per cent government targeted against our hardworking illustrious sons and daughters and the monopolistic tendencies of the Fulani Janjaweed. “We are tired of being ruled by government officials who dine and wine with terrorists but brutalise and kill law abiding freedom fighters. We are tired of being ruled by a government that pays ransom to bandits, frees terrorists but jails unarmed protesters. IPOB is not, has never been, and will never be interested in the crumbs from Federal Government of Nigeria.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com