Background I have quite a lot of interesting childhood memories. As a child, I remember how much I loved reading, dancing and travelling, and I still do that as an adult. I read a lot of books and as a result of that, I knew a lot of quotes from different authors. One particular quote by Leslie Brown, an American motivational speaker and author, which says, “You have to be hungry” has been a guide for me over the years. And in my journey of life so far, I discovered that one has to be hungry to make one’s dreams a reality. Education For my elementary education, I attended Shekinah International Primary School, Gboko, Benue. I went to Federal Government Girls College, Gboko, for my secondary education. I went on to study Sociology at the Nassarawa State University, Keffi. I am currently pursuing a Master’s degree in Industrial Sociology. Acting Acting has been a rewarding career for me because doing what I love is a very fulfilling experience. Being paid for it makes it even more incredible. I studied acting at City Academy in London, United Kingdom, where one of the teachers always emphasised the need to take acting like our lives depended on it, implying that there has to be something in it for us to want to give it our all.  It could be passion, self-fulfilment or satisfaction. Sacrifice The biggest sacrifice I have ever made for my career was ending a relationship with someone I cared about because he did not want me to act for some personal reasons. We were in a very serious relationship and were hoping to get married but he could not deal with work trips I made often and my inability to be there for him all the time, so we parted ways. Qualities The personal qualities that have helped me get to where I am are focus and discipline. Being an actor, I have been able to stay focused by constantly evolving and being disciplined enough to read often and workout to stay in shape. As a public figure, I believe one’s looks should always complement one’s talent. Parents I have enjoyed the support of every member of my family, except my father, who wanted me to become a medical doctor. My family members attend my movie premieres, go to cinemas to watch my films and always advertise my movies. I really hope my father comes around someday. Interests If I were not an actress, I would have been a television presenter. I attended Ketler Presentations (a training company) in South Africa to do a course on master of ceremonies and presentation skills. At a point, I even thought of starting my own television show but when the acting jobs started coming, it became quite overwhelming. Embarrassment I have not really had many embarrassing moments since I started my career. However, I remember being at a function where I met someone and introduced myself as an actress. He then asked, “What else do you do”? in the conversation that ensued, implying that acting was not good enough. Challenges The most challenging aspect of being an actress is creating a balance between work and family time. I like to spend time with my family but hardly have the time to do that because work has to be attended to as well. I have a nephew I am very fond of and like to spend every free time I have with him but I rarely get to do that. Fears I would not say I have fears that the movie industry is competitive. I believe there is room for every entertainer to soar. As long as one stays true to one’s craft and keep evolving, one would be celebrated for a very long time. Harassment There are stories of sexual harassment in various spheres of life, including the movie industry. However, I am lucky not to have had any personal experience in that regard. Pageants I had participated in beauty pageants before going into acting. In 2007, I won the Face of Nassarawa State beauty pageant and I went on to represent my state that same year at the Miss Tourism Nigeria. The last pageant I partook in was Miss Nigeria 2013 where I emerged among the top 10 contestants. Social Media As an actress, no amount of exposure can be enough for one’s career. I wish to gain more popularity and thankfully, social media contributes greatly to that. But, my works do the most for me in terms of exposure. Personality Off screen, I am calm and can be shy at times. I like to go out and do things such as grocery shopping. But, when I notice people staring at me, it makes me very shy. Nollywood Being an actor in Nollywood is absolutely a blessing for me because I am living my dreams. Not everyone gets to practise their dream career, so I am thankful for the opportunities life has presented to me. Roles I cannot think of any movie role that I would not accept, irrespective of the fees involved. I am adventurous and like exploring. Colleagues Many actors complain of fake friends in the entertainment industry but I have not had that experience because I choose my friends carefully and keep my circle small.  I would like to stress that I know my friends in the industry and they know me too. Rivalry I cannot say there is unhealthy rivalry in Nollywood. I know nothing about that. Inspiration Initially, it was Whoopi Goldberg, but as I grew older, I became more mesmerised by Tyler Perry, long before he became more famous for building his studio in Atlanta, United States of America. I have always been a fan of his relatable stories, creativity and ability to multi-task, produce, act and direct. Fans I have no technique for handling male fans. I just try to be as nice and friendly as I can. I bear it in mind that some of my fans like me genuinely because of my works and would like to be friends with me. Beauty I love having enough rest, sleep and working out. I also drink lots of water and eat healthy food. Hobbies I love to go on trips where I can see nature, take lots of beautiful pictures and shop. I liked Las Vegas (USA) the last time I was there. The people there hardly sleep. There is always one activity or the other such as music concerts, stage plays and game shows. I also like to read and browse the Internet for new things. Being knowledgeable about a lot of things is fun for me. Memories My most memorable moment was the birth of my nephew, whom I adore a lot. Conduct One of things that I cannot do without is prayer. I pray about everything. I pray when I have the urge, regardless of what time it is. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com