Mrs BolajiOluni became a graduate of law from the University of Ibadan after spending over eight years due to different industrial actions. After law school and without a good job in sight, she went to a fashion house where she learnt the nitty-gritty of cloth making. Presently, she uses a three-bedroom apartment where she sews beautiful clothes and trains apprentices for fees. “I prefer sewing but my parents want me to be a lawyer. But while in UI, I started learning from a tailor that used to make clothes for me whenever we are on semester break and after I graduated I went to a standard fashion institute where I learnt more. “I make an average of N600,000 profit in a month. It is good if the government invests more in technical and vocational studies so that Nigerians, especially youths, can make ends meet because not everyone will get a white-collar job,” Oluni said. Similarly, Innocent Osuji had OND in Industrial Maintenance Engineering from Yaba College of Technology. Osuji told our correspondent that he decided to concentrate more on injector pump and nozzle repair. He said he made up to N300,000.00 a month in his workshop at Isolo, Lagos, and had eight male apprentices. Oluni and Osuji represent several Nigerian graduates, who after spending years in various tertiary institutions across the country, couldn’t secure a white-collar job. Some of them resorted to learning vocational skills in technical and vocational education training institutions to make ends meet. Some of them enlist with artisans where they learn one skill or another for a stipulated period. Without doubt, one of the greatest challenges in Nigeria today is unemployment. A recent reportby the National Bureau of Statisticssaid Nigeria’s unemployment rate is the second-highest in the world which rose to 33.3 per cent, translating to some 23.2 million people. The NBS said it was the highest in at least 13 years. While responding to the NBS, The Jacob and Frances Sanger Mossiker Chair in the Humanities at the University of Texas in Austin, United States, Prof. ToyinFalola The unemployment rate in the country is undetermined. “Besides, beyond the low employment rate, there is probably a higher underemployment rate in the country. This is the data I will interpret. The implication of this data is in the standard of living of Nigerians, which is atrociously low. “More than half of the population live in abject poverty. The wealth of the country is concentrated in the hands of a few. Nigerian governments are not doing enough to lift Nigerians out of poverty. If anything, with obnoxious policies and a low wage structure, governments have only made living in Nigeria unbearable for many of the citizens.” Due to bad economy, lack of problem-solving policy, lack of infrastructure and unconducive business environment, many organisations across the country have downsized while some relocated to other countries. In addition, as a means of finding solutions to unemployment in the country, different public and private agencies in Nigeria have been making calls to stakeholders in the education sector to ensure that entrepreneurship study is prioritised, especially hands-on-skills. Many of these stakeholders suggested that funding should be made available for Technical and Vocational Education and Training Institutes, including polytechnics, for quality hands-on training. In a recent report, the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Dr Isa Pantami, was quoted as saying that digital economy, innovation and entrepreneurship “play a huge role in creating value and prosperity.” Corroborating this, The Vice-Chancellor, Babcock University, Ogun State, Prof. AdemolaTayo, in an interview with The PUNCH explained that technical and entrepreneurship education in Nigeria had not been what it was expected to be. He said, “The original purpose of establishing polytechnics, for example, was to promote entrepreneurship. Unfortunately, there is poor promotion of polytechnic education compared to that of the university education. This partly contributes to the rising population of the unemployed in the country.” Globally, there is a deliberate investment in TVET as a way of reducing unemployment and promoting economic growth and development. An article on tandfonline titled, ‘International experience in TVET-industry cooperation for China’s poorest province,’ explained that “the per cent of China’s people living in extreme poverty was reduced from 88 per cent in 1981 to one per cent in 2018 (World Bank, 2018). As China eliminated poverty and moved to become a moderately well-off society by 2020, it renewed its commitment toward higher technical-vocational education and training. Enrolments in technical-vocational higher education began to rise and constituted nearly half of all higher education.” In Nigeria, polytechnics are among special institutions empowered to disseminate the needed skills and knowledge in technical and vocational education and training students through practical-orientated curriculums. Benefits of TVET Head of Department, Science Laboratory Technology, Yaba College of Technology, Lagos, Dr Oluwaseun Popoola, said TVET provided productive employment adding that it was vital for economic and social development of any nation. She said, “It is also a tool for productivity enhancement and poverty reduction. “Nigeria is rich in human resources which are mostly youths. Investing in skill acquisition for the teeming youth population will transform the country into the richest in the African region as skilled human resource is the primary asset of many countries. TVET will quickly develop the small scale industry and encourage entrepreneur.” Challenges On the contrary, it was gathered that lack of infrastructure and obsolete tools, among others, were affecting learning and skill acquisition in Nigeria. This reportedly led to excessive use of improvisation. A former Head of Department, Computer and Engineering, ObafemiAwolowo University, Prof. RotimiAdagunodo, said the dependence on improvisation was alarming as nothing seemed to be available. “Every time in Nigeria, you hear this is not working, that is not working, improvise; when will anything work? We should try to make our system work. We need a stable structure for our educational system and it will take the policy of government to give us that stability. The entrepreneurship aspect of the policy is not vigorously pursued; suddenly, when an administration changes, they will change the policy again,” he said. Babcock VC, Tayo, also said, “Government universities, as well as some private universities with centre of entrepreneurship, have poor investment in the facilities needed to provide adequate and productive skill training to make graduates from such centres become entrepreneurs.” Also, Popoola opined that tertiary education in Nigeria was facing many challenges as university education was more theoretical and had fallen short in addressing issues of national development peculiar to the Nigerian environment. She said, “Most university graduates in Nigeria are not trained to focus on market demand and are ill-equipped to respond to changing labour market needs. Most graduates struggle to get white-collar jobs which are very limited or not in existence. The much needed skill acquisition training is relegated to the background. Youth unemployment in Nigeria is a major societal menace that needs urgent solution.” A journal by Professors RekoOkoye and Maxwell OnyenweArimonu, Department of Vocational Education, NnamdiAzikiwe University, Akwa, Anambra State, titled, ‘Technical and Vocational Education in Nigeria: Issues, Challenges and a Way Forward,’ identified some of the challenges confronting TVET in Nigeria as inadequate funding of technical and vocational education, inadequate facilities, brain drain, staff training and retention, curriculum of technical education. “Education generally, including technical and vocational education programme, has been grossly neglected in Nigeria. Technical educators have the greatest challenge of convincing the lawmakers on the reason they should give priority attention to the programme in resources allocation. Many options of getting positive results have been advocated at different fora namely; lobbying, participation of technical educators in governance, wooing etc, yet the government is still playing lip service to the proper development of the programme in Nigeria. Therefore, Nigeria will ever remain a technologically backward and dependent nation if this negative attitude and trend is not reversed. Nigerian value system places too much emphasis on university qualifications not minding whether the holder possesses the required knowledge and skill,” the journal reads partly. Relegation of technical degrees However, as stated in the journal above, Nigeria places too much emphasis on university qualifications while those with technical degrees are looked down on as being intellectually weak to go through university education. It is also important to note that the university education is geared towards knowledge acquisition rather than skills. The ego and pride that comes with having a university degree made technical degrees to be relegated in the country. Furthermore, there is an urgent need for the government and other stakeholders to pay attention to the growth, development of the technical education and erase that wrong notion that such certificates and the holders are lower class professionals. Invariably, this has also made parents to prefer sending their children to acquire university education even when such a child is more gifted in studying courses in TVET. A parent, MrsIbukunAgbede, whose four children are university undergraduates, said she ensured they gained admission into universities because she suffered relegation as a HND holder in Estate Management. “I had a low self-esteem when I finished from the polytechnic as a HND graduate in Estate Management. I couldn’t get a job on time because employers specified that they want B.Sc degree holders. When I eventually got a job with a firm, I wasn’t given same salary with the B.Sc holders and the B.Sc holders were usually considered first for promotion, trainings and other benefits. For this reason, I decided that I will never allow my children to attend any polytechnic.” JumokeOlatunji, a graduate of YABATECH, who studied Industrial Maintenance Engineering  and now works in an engineering firm in Agbara, Lagos, shared her workplace experience as a HND degree holder. “The university graduates know more of the theoretical knowledge of engineering. They are majorly employed as engineers or supervisors while the HND/ND holders are employed as technicians. “The unfortunate part of this is that engineering is more of practical so after the technical/vocational graduates acquire technical skills, they still have to come and work and report to the graduate with a university degree who may not be as skilled or technically inclined as the graduate from a TVET institution. “Over time, the graduates from the TVET institutions have proven to be the best and by the time they get promoted to the supervisor position, they perform even better that the guys with the university graduates because they already have valuable and useful technical skills that make them stand out.” Graduates learn hands-on-skills from artisans Learning from artisans or master craftsman as Oluni did are considered to be more important source of skills training in Africa and South Asia. Informal apprenticeship is believed to be responsible for the majority of skill development in Nigeria. But Popoola explained that some master craftsperson breach training agreements in failing to impart their skills adequately, thus keeping apprentices dependent on them for too long and sometimes “informal apprenticeship simply masks child labour.” She, however, suggested that “upgrading or formalising informal apprenticeship is a cost effective way to improve young people’s employability. Improved and effective informal apprenticeship systems through partnership with TVET institutions can train young people in developing countries, and therefore expand the skill base of national economy.” The computer village, Ikeja, Lagos, is also a major hub for informal skill acquisition or artisanship. Popoola hinted that The National Business and Technical Examination Board had inspected several workplaces at Computer Village, Ikeja, in conjunction with YABATECH. She said, “These workplaces would be upgraded and inspected and would serve as YABATECH Training Centres for mobile phones and computer hardware repairs and maintenance under the National Skills Qualification Framework.” The Public Relation Officer, Lagos State Polytechnic,  MrLanreKuye, advised that instead of graduates and students going to learn from artisans, government should establish more technical training institutes, adding that more funding, incentives for trainees in form of loans to establish their own businesses should be provided. He said, “Instead of learning from artisans, it is important for the government to establish more technical training institutes with a synergy for town and gown relationship. Also the existing ones should be well equipped to meet up with the modern day happenings.” Way forward Popoola suggested that TVET institutions should adopt new training technologies such as green technology, expand the outreach of their training, and improve the quality of their services She said, “Technical workers are not adequately remunerated in Nigeria as the government and society has created disparity placing the university graduates above more skilled workers. Removing the disparity is a way of making TVET more lucrative to interested youths. “TVET institutions like polytechnics should not be relegated to the background.   Ghana has succeeded in converting their TVET institutions to technical universities to encourage youths to take up careers in TVET. “Relegating TVET graduates will eventually mean that Nigeria will be dependent and have to be importing skilled workers. “The government should put more emphasis on social media platforms and give reports of same on the benefit of youths joining TVET institutions. The government should provide equipment to the institutions, carry out public sensitisation and create job market to the graduates from the technical institutions.” Also, Tayo advised that “the entrepreneurship curriculum needs to be broadened and retooled to allow a minimum of two years unhindered intensive training of the student in a chosen area apart from the student’s primary course of study. Students should be graded in that chosen skill area by the quality of what they produced at their completion of the entrepreneurship programme. More importantly, there should be collaboration with relevant industry in the training of students during their entrepreneurship programme. There should be hands-on training as against theory. It should be 80 per cent practical and 20 per cent theory.” Falola suggested that “For those who can, especially students, it has become easier now. They should acquire skills such as writing, UI/UX, web design/development, graphic design, and content development. These skills are in high demand now. Giving suggestions to unemployed and educated Nigerians will be telling them to find a needle in a haystack. If they acquire skills, which is what I still recommend, where is the money to establish themselves as start-ups?” The National  President, Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics, Mr Anderson Ezeibe, advised the government to pay more attention to technical and vocational education, saying officials should make out time to visit polytechnics across the country and see to their needs. “The government needs to pay more attention, not pay lip service to technical and vocational education,” he added. However, the Special Adviser to the new Executive Secretary of NBTE, Aliyu Bala, said, ”The ES, Prof. Idris Bugaje,  resumed office today,  (Tuesday) and I cannot make any comment for now.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com