ANGRY mob on Tuesday attacked Kware Divisional Police Station in Sokoto State and lynched a suspected kidnapper. Members of the mob, who are residents of the area, went violent and also set ablaze a car belonging to the Divisional Police Officer and two other police vans. READ ALSO: Gunmen raid Ebonyi community, kill policeman, three shot, robbed The Command’s Public Relations Officer, Abubakar Sanusi, who confirmed the incident in a press statement, stated that one person died, while the station, DPO’s car and two vehicles were set on fire. The statement reads, “On Tuesday, 27th April 2021, at about 0550hrs, distress call was received from the resident of Kainuwa village via Kware Local Government Area that some hoodlums entered their village and robbed one Alhaji Aminu Ibrahim. The villagers followed the footsteps of the suspects. “On reaching one village called Bela, they started beating people on sight and arrested six suspects from the village. Later, police was called from Kware Division. “The DPO instantly mobilised men to the scene and took over the six suspected hoodlums. On their way back to the station, the villagers already made calls all over the area and the angry mob, who are predominantly residents of Kware local government area, attacked the DPO, burning tires and demanded the suspects to be handed over in order to lynch them. “In an attempt to repel mob action, the Divisional Police Headquarters and one suspect were set ablaze by the angry mob that also burnt down police vehicles, including that of the DPO. “Reinforcement was sent to Kware to unravel the circumstances that led to the unfortunate incident. Thereafter, a delegation was led by the Commissioner of Police, Kamaldeen Okunlola, for an on-the-spot assessment of the unwarranted act of mayhem caused by residents of Kware local government area. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com