According to a survey in 2015, Nigeria was projected to be among the fastest growing economies in the world. Moreover, several other projections by experts, international professional bodies and other organisations are indicative of the fact that Nigeria has great potential, and her relevance where the global economy is concerned cannot be over-emphasised. Despite all of this, the Nigerian state has been faced with debilitating socioeconomic and political challenges due to insecurity. The incessant terrorists’ activities (more especially in the northern region) are beginning to take a heavy toll on the entire system; the current security situation in the country has really deteriorated compared to the past. Albeit, many factors may have been responsible for this but more importantly, bad governance, leadership failure, corruption and poverty have largely contributed to the current spate of insecurity in the country. However, it is important to note by observation that the northern region has been disproportionately affected by the incessant activities of the bandits and terrorists who have held the country bound through insurgency, kidnapping, maiming and senseless killing of innocent civilians etc. The spate of insecurity in Nigeria, more especially in the recent times, is becoming a global concern as the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), is fast losing the confidence of the citizens. Kidnappings, killings, insurgent attacks etc, which are now very prevalent in the North, and are also becoming a regular occurrence in which the innocent suffering masses are mostly the victims. The emergence of Buhari back in 2015 brought hope to the populace who had been terrified by the deteriorating security situation (i.e. Niger Delta militancy, kidnapping, herder-farmer clashes, religious conflicts, Boko Haram terrorists’ insurgency, police brutality, human rights violations- extrajudicial execution of suspects by the military and/or para-military personnel etc. All these constituted national angst in the sociopolitical  space, more especially as the situation has further deteriorated  without any apparent ‘mitigation measures’. Currently, the most disturbing trend in Nigeria is the kidnapping of schoolchildren as well as students of tertiary institutions. Although there have also been several reported cases of abduction of important individuals and/or any persons categorised to be of higher status in society who the kidnappers think could meet their demands. Hence, kidnapping in Nigeria is fast reaching a crisis point! Apparently, there are three different categories (or groups) of criminal elements in the Nigerian society who are actively involved in this dastardly act, more especially in the North; the killer herdsmen, the bandits and the terrorist groups. For the killer herdsmen (who are also known for cattle rustling and other criminal activities), the motive for kidnapping is very clear; economic gains. And for the bandits who are also observed to be actively involved in this dastardly criminal act, their modus operandi is very clear; they mostly disguise with military uniforms thereby deceiving their unsuspecting victim or victims into thinking they are military men. Many commuters have fallen victim of these criminal groups as they often run into them at checkpoints across the northern region. These bandits kidnap their victims for ransom, and the proceeds are used to purchase fire arms, military uniforms, vehicles, motorbikes, foodstuffs, drugs etc. Interestingly, the operation of Boko Haram in collaboration with other terrorist groups in northern Nigeria is very similar to that of the bandits except in the aspect of ideology for which the organisation was established- forbidding western education in Nigeria. It is very important and noteworthy to understand that there are other terrorist groups operating in collaboration with the homegrown terrorist group -Boko Haram, in Nigeria and the neighbouring countries. Boko Haram or JASDJ is an Islamic terrorist group operating in Nigeria, Cameroon, Chad and Niger. The group aspires to establish its caliphate in Nigeria and West Africa, destabilise the Nigerian government and severe the western relationship or influence from the country. This group was formerly linked to Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM). On March 12, 2015, Daesh (formerly known as ISIL) accepted a pledge of allegiance by Boko Haram. And in August 2016, the group split into two factions: Islamic State in West Africa (ISWA) and JASDJ or Boko Haram. ISWA is affiliated with ISIS core in Iraq and Syria and has expressed keen interest and intention to target the Nigerian government, Christian and Western interests. ISWA members have launched a series of successful attacks against Nigerian military locations and security architectural structures or strongholds, increased their freedom or movement across Borno and Yobe states, and taken multiple hostages, including two humanitarian hostages who they executed in 2018. Moreover, Ansarul Muslimina Fi Biladis Sudan (I.e. Vanguard for the protection of Muslims in Black Africa) (Ansaru), is an Islamic terrorist organisation based in northern Nigeria. It emerged in 2012 and has been strongly motivated by an anti-Nigeria government and anti-Western agenda. Boko Haram is rated as one of the world’s deadliest terrorist groups, according to the Global Terrorism Index. Boko Haram is reported to have been responsible for the death of thousands of people and have displaced over 2.3 million people since it started its insurgency in northeastern Nigeria in 2009. The International Federation of Red Cross in Nigeria recorded over 23,000 missing individuals as a result of Boko Haram insurgency. Since 2009, Boko Haram has gradually and systematically extended its geographical tentacles in the direction of all the 19 states of the northern Nigeria in a bid to establish its caliphate. The terror group continues with the current insurgency targeting the civilian population, foreigners, government facilities and humanitarian organisations. For example, there have been several reported cases of attacks on the IDP camps in which humanitarian personnel were kidnapped, and in some cases, killed. The most recent insurgent attacks on humanitarian workers in which eight people were reportedly killed in Damasak, Borno State, is a typical example highlighting the modus operandi of the terror group. Furthermore, the modus operandi of Boko Haram and its affiliates in Nigeria include; coordinated armed assaults, assassinations, kidnapping of the civilian population (schoolchildren, secondary school teachers as well as the university lecturers, farmers, government officials, traditional rulers, expatriate workers, other foreign nationals etc inclusive), the use of women and children as suicide bombers, setting ambushes against the military and the police, cattle rustling, illegal mining, illegal arms dealing, use of military uniforms and vehicles, car bombing, use of improvised explosive devices, arson, attacks on; markets, farmlands, places of worship, security forces installations, government facilities, educational facilities, and recruitment of children and youth into the organisation by brainwashing them through religiosity and/or ideology. Since 2019, there has been an increasing trend of Boko Haram terrorists constructing illegal road checkpoints on the highways and major commercial routes, more especially across the busy northern cities like Maiduguri, Damaturu, Kaduna, Abuja etc where they target civilians, security forces and aid workers. The Federal Government had consistently maintained the fact that ‘bandits’ (and not terrorists) have been responsible for the various abductions of schoolchildren in the North, not until the recent Katsina school abduction, which took place last December. Boko Haram insurgents had thereafter released a video showing the ‘seized schoolboys’ their custody claiming responsibility. This video was made available in the public domain, hence proving the fact that the terror group has been actively involved in the booming ‘kidnapping business’ in Nigeria. The reason for Boko Haram’s involvement in kidnapping across northern Nigeria is not far-fetched; the terrorist organisation uses the ransoms paid as an additional source of revenue to maintain the organisation. Kidnapping has become a quick means of revenue generation for terrorist organisations, both in Nigeria and the neighbouring countries. For example, it was rumoured that a huge ransom was paid before the 279 schoolgirls (who were abducted in Zamfara State) were released. Albeit, the government has always denied payments of ransom to kidnappers, some of these girls (who spent four days in the custody of their abductors) in a media interview that their abductors announced that they would be releasing them to their families with a glow on their faces, as they turned the atmosphere of their camp into a frenzy of jubilation, firing their guns into the air, shouting and rejoicing saying “our money has arrived”. Again, money had been delivered to them! The questions remain; who negotiates and pays these ransoms? In what medium is money conveyed to these terrorists? Is this a sustainable solution? Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com