Flooding does not just suddenly happen; it is usually preceded by some occurrences hinting its imminent arrival. When the flow of rain water on its way to the drainage channels or river is impeded, then flooding occurs. Flooding is having too much water in the wrong place. The cause of flooding is mainly man-made because of our unhygienic environmental habits. With just few days of rains, some parts of Lagos are already flooded. How then will residents of these areas, especially flood-prone areas, fare when the peak of the rainy season which usually comes with attendant flooding eventually arrives? The omens of flooding are here with us coupled with the warnings issued by the appropriate authorities; are we heeding the augurs? What’s the end gain if the rains, designed by the Cosmic Host, meant to bless us and water our plants, turn out to damage our crops, property and even destroy lives due to our action and inaction? Does it appear many have forgotten the losses, pains and agonies that accompanied the ravaging heavy rains which caused disasters in different parts of the country in 2012, the year of flood fury? Of recent, it is observed that sometimes the rains no longer pre-inform or send any signal before their arrival through warnings like cloudy sky, windy atmosphere and dark clouds. Rather, they will just begin to fall suddenly without any pre-notification and will pour heavily. That’s another indication that the rains this year would be in a different dimension. On April 14, 2021, the Lagos State Government predicted high intensity high of rainfall of 261 days this year, with an attendant flooding across the state. The state therefore directed its residents in coastal and low-lying wetland areas to move upland in order to avert avoidable loss of lives and property. This was made known by the Commissioner for the Environment and Water Resources, Mr. Tunji Bello, at a media briefing on the 2021 Seasonal Climate Predictions and Socio-Economic implications for Lagos State, held at Alausa, Ikeja. In the words of Bello, “…Lagos State shall experience a rainy season of 238-261 days, while the Maximum Annual Rainfall Amount is predicted to be 1747mm”. “It is also expected that the increasing frequency of extreme weather events indicate that year 2021 will likely experience days with extremely high rainfall amounts which may result in flooding”, he further added. In downscaling the predictions of the flood alerts, the state government is therefore collaborating with the Nigerian Meteorological Agency. In addition to what the commissioner said, the Special Adviser to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Drainage Services, Mr. Joe Igbokwe, declared, “I…urge residents to support the government to achieve a flood-free Lagos and desist from dumping refuse in drainage channels or encroaching on Right of Ways of canals. Regrettably, several of the canals that have been recently cleaned up are again being littered by residents.” As a way of checking the looming flood, the government plans to dredge about 221 collector drains, 32 primary channels measuring about 72 kilometers spread across the state. Flood alerts and warnings are usually issued to sensitise residents and the authorities to the need to prepare. Ignoring these warnings or not heeding the flood alerts may come with deadly consequences. In order to be prepared for the predicted floods, agencies in charge of disaster management and emergencies should be ready to ensure safety of lives during the peak of the rainy season. A secure, environment-friendly future is not built on the premises of mere luck with folding of arms; it is deliberately and conscientiously built by treating our environment well. Most roads in the hinterlands do not have gutters to allow rainwater flow when there is heavy downpour. Makeshift water channels could be dug, even if not deep, to ease water flow in such areas. Drainage systems constructed in cities and towns should be deep and wide enough to allow the free flow of flood water. For rural dwellers, they should desist from the unhealthy habit of dumping refuse in drainage channels. This act is also prevalent in cities as they empty their waste bins in the rains thinking the dirt will flow with the rainwater whereas it comes back to hurt and harm the residents. While government plays its role in providing social amenities and infrastructure for citizens, Lagos residents must also do their best to maintain them. Let it also be added that, as citizens await provision of public amenities by government, they are also duty-bound to provide themselves the needed facilities in the interim. We cannot prevent the rains from falling in its season, but we can prevent the rage of water. Nature’s fierceness occasioned by continuous furious downpour can be avoided if we take good care of our environment. In the overall interest of the safety of lives and property, every resident must brace for the rainy days ahead in order to be prepared for the peak period. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com