The Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board, has promised impactful changes in the basic education system of the state. Speaking on Thursday at the phase III graduation ceremony of 14,000 teachers who participated in the Excellence in Child Education and Learning training, the executive chairman, LASUBEB, Mr Wahab Alawiye-King, told the participants that all they learnt must be incorporated into teaching. The LASUBEB board members who visited two schools including Wesley Primary School, Agege and CMS Primary School, Bariga, maintained that EkoExcel was about transformation of the basic education sector in Lagos. Alawiye-King said, “The effective domain of learning must be incorporated into what we do. It is about discipline, inculcating right values and societal values. Let us explore other possibilities, expand our frontiers for knowledge; we need to take advantage of new opportunities and embark on  new eventualities. We want to charge you to go back to your classroom with renew energy, challenge yourself, be adventurous. EkoExcel is about transformation of basic education sector; it is designed to instill discipline in classroom and be more engaging, interactive, and make teacher globally competitive. We infused technology into our classroom in a structured way of learning and all the pedogical incorporated into the tabs.” The teachers were also equipped with tablets which would assist them in the technological focus of EkoExcel. The permanent secretary in the state Ministry of Education, Mrs Abosede Adelaja, said, “I am excited with what I have seen in the last two weeks. Lagos state is talking about transformation agenda.  We are looking forward to see changes in you. I am looking forward to the transformation in our public schools. Our teachers can compete internationally with others. They should put what they have learnt in to use.” One of the teachers, Mrs Abiodun Oladipupo who spoke on behalf of all the participants said the EkoExcel training had positioned them to re-write the story of Nigeria in the education sector. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com