The Kaduna State Internal Revenue Service on Wednesday sealed the headquarters of Kaduna Electric Distribution Company over alleged N464.5m tax default. The headquarters of the Kaduna Electric, otherwise known as NEPA building, is  located on Ahmadu Bello Way in the metropolis. Some of the company’s outlets at Kawo, Ungwan Dosa, Tudun Wada were affected. KADIRS’ Secretary and Legal Adviser, Aysha Mohammed, said  the offices were sealed for not settling outstanding pay-as-you-earn and withholding taxes between 2012 and 2018. She said apart from withholding tax, Kaduna Electric had been deducting PAYE from staff, but not remitting to KADIRS as required by law. Mohammed noted that the state agency has been in talks with the electricity company since 2019 but added that Kaduna Electric had refused to act on its demands. She said, “The headquarters and other sealed offices will remain close until the N464.5m tax liability is settled.” Ado Garba, the agency’s head of enforcement, added that KADIRS sent seven notices to Kaduna Electric, demanding the settlement of the liability with no response from the company. “This left us with no option than to obtain a warrant from the court to seal the offices,” he said. When contacted, the Head of Corporate Communication, Kaduna Electric, Abdullazeez Abdullahi, could not be reached as his telephone indicated he was not available. Also, there was no response to a text message sent to his mobile telephone. But a senior staff members of the organisation who spoke to our correspondent on condition of anonymity, said the state government was owing the company N2bn for electricity consumed. He said, “It is unfortunate that the Kaduna State Internal Revenue Service would resort to the action it took over N464, 486, 991.53 when the Ministries, Department and Agencies of the state government owe Kaduna Electric a debt of over N2bn for electricity consumed.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com