The Sterling One Foundation has said its Multi-City Beach Clean-up Project will empower youths and women in coastal communities across the country. The Chief Executive Officer of the foundation, Mrs Olapeju Ibekwe, who spoke during the launch at Alpha Beach in Lagos State, said the project would also provide alternative sources of income for the communities and ensure that the beaches get cleaned every week for at least the next one year. According to a statement, members of the initiative’s board of governance, environmental groups, volunteers, and the media launched the project, which was initiated by the Managing Director/CEO, Sterling Bank Plc, Mr. Abubakar Suleiman, recently. Ibekwe noted that the project was also aimed at addressing a minimum of seven of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. On fundraising for the project, she explained that, beyond individuals who donated N500 and above through Giving.ng, the crowdfunding platform of the foundation, it also received donations from corporate bodies, including Rite Foods, Sterling Bank and Bonnie Bio, as well as other partners. According to her, the platform has successfully raised about N3m for the project with about N1.3m contributed by individuals, while the rest was donated by corporate partners. Ibekwe said, “We will get human resources from the coastal communities, train and empower them on how to clean beaches in a way that their health and safety are guaranteed while ensuring that the recycling of the waste is done properly. “They will also be given the responsibility of cleaning these beaches every week and paid for the next one year. So, we are increasing their capacity and providing them an alternative source of income. “We are going to replicate it in all coastal cities across the country after the flag-off event. We will start to clean the other beaches one after the other by engaging the coastal communities.” A member of the project’s governance board, Mr. Akanbi Williams, who is also a Director of the International Ocean Institute, said it was about creating awareness and carrying out an activity to eliminate some of the problems created by humans along the beaches. “Marine litter or marine debris are materials that are processed by man that end up in the sea. Unfortunately, this has been going on for decades, particularly plastics. We are now seeing the consequences because what we throw at the sea is now being thrown back to us and because it is throwing it back to us, either directly or indirectly, we are feeling the impact. “The clean-up is to start a process which helps us reduce what we have put in the sea. We also try to reduce the pressure of the debris on both aquatic life and the whole ecosystem. The marine debris affects individual organisms, including man, and the ecosystem,” he said. Another board member, Taiwo Adewole, who is the Executive Director of Recycle Points, a waste recycling and social benefit venture based in Lagos, stated that the initiative would empower the coastal communities and provide input for some of the over 40 recycling companies in Lagos. The CEO, Bonnie Bio Nigeria, Mr Lanre Adesida, noted that the company was proud to partner with the Sterling One Foundation and Nigerians on such a timely and environmentally impactful project due to its environmentally friendly nature.