Make no mistake; Nigeria has a lot of good stuff to talk about even in the midst of all sorts of gloom-ridden news that come out of it occasionally. Believe it or not, Nigerians are smart, intelligent, and innovative – which is why it’s no surprise that many hold prominent positions on the global stage. From academia to business, sports, arts, and politics, Nigerians have always shown the world their prowess. It is indisputable that globally, Nigerians have made their mark in science and engineering, medicine, music, and various other fields. World heavyweight boxing champion, Anthony Joshua; Hollywood actor, John Boyega; Universal Studios group chair, Pearlena Igbokwe; and space scientist, Maggie Aderin-Pocock. These are just a few names of Nigerians in the diaspora (or people with Nigerian ancestry) who have achieved success on the international scale in a wide range of professions. As a matter of fact, according to 2017 statistics by the Migration Policy Institute based in Washington, DC in the United States, 54 per cent of Nigerian immigrants are most likely to occupy management positions, compared with 32 per cent of the total foreign-born population and 39 per cent of the US-born population. Nigerians have also been described as the most highly educated of all groups in the US – 61 per cent hold at least a bachelor’s degree compared with 31 per cent of the total foreign-born population and 32 per cent of the US-born population. Also, in countries like the United Kingdom, many people with Nigerian ancestry have succeeded and are still succeeding in various fields like Information Technology, financial services, and medicine, among others. This piece looks at the non-exhaustive list of people with Nigerian ancestry elected or appointed to important positions abroad. Kaycee Madu Born and raised in Owerri, Imo State, Madu is the Minister of Justice and Solicitor General of Alberta, Canada. He was elected to the position in August 2020. Previously, the Nigerian-Canadian was elected to the Legislative Assembly of Alberta in 2019 representing the electoral district of Edmonton-South West. A law graduate from the University of Lagos, Madu was on March 4, 2020 designated as a Queen’s Counsel by the Lieutenant Governor of Alberta via an Order-in-Council. Queen’s Counsel is said to be the highest honour awarded to lawyers who have made significant contributions to the advancement of law and society. Adewale Adeyemo Adeyemo is the US Deputy Secretary of the Treasury. He was previously the Deputy National Security Advisor (adviser) for International Economics and Deputy Director of the National Economic Council under former President Barack Obama. He was also the first President of the Obama Foundation. Aged 39, Adeyemo was born in Ibadan, Oyo State but raised in Southern California. He had his education at the University of California, Berkeley, and the Yale Law School. Oye Owolewa Owolewa was in November 2020 elected as the shadow representative of the US House of Representatives from the District of Columbia. The posts of shadow congresspersons are held by elected or appointed government officials from subnational polities of the US, but they lack congressional vote. Owolewa was born in Nigeria to Kwara State father and Osun State mother, Owolewa was raised in Boston, Massachusetts, where he attended Boston Latin School and graduated in 2008. In 2014, he earned a doctorate in pharmacy from Northeastern University and moved to Washington to practise pharmacy. Osaremen Okolo Okolo was appointed as COVID-19 Policy Advisor (adviser) by President Joe Biden. Prior to that, she was the Senior Health Policy Advisor at the US House of Representatives. Okolo was born to Edo State parents in 1994 but was raised in Massachusetts. The 26-year-old graduate obtained her degree in Medicine and African-American Studies at Harvard University in 2017. Okolo also served as the Legislative Aide for Health Policy on the US Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labour, and Pensions for Ranking Member Patty Murray of Washington. Her works were on comprehensive health care and public health until recently when she focused on the COVID-19 pandemic. Ernest Ezeajughi Ezeajughi is the Mayor of London Borough of Brent in the UK. He was elected councillor for the Stonebridge ward in May 2014 and was re-elected in May 2018. Born in Anambra State, Ezeajughi is a graduate of  Nnamdi Azikiwe University. He moved to the UK in 2004 and obtained a Master of Science at Kings College London. He currently works for the Medicine and Healthcare Regulatory Authority and the Royal Mail. Previously, he worked for Public Health England and other organisations. As mayor, Ezeajughi’s duties include supporting two charities during his year in office, namely the Sickle Cell Society and the Jason Roberts Foundation. Chi Onwurah Born to Nigerian father and British mother, Onwurah has served as the Member of Parliament for Newcastle upon Tyne Central in the UK since 2010. On April 9, 2020, she was appointed as shadow minister for Science, Research & Digital by a member of the British Parliament, Sir Keir Starmer. Before then, Onwurah served as shadow minister for Industrial Strategy, Science and Innovation under Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn. In 2020, she was made an Honorary Fellow of the British Science Association. Helen Grant Born to Nigerian father and English mother in September 1961, Grant was appointed as the Special Envoy of UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Girls’ Education in January 2021. She was the first black woman of mixed heritage to be elected as a Conservative Member of Parliament for Maidstone and The Weald. Previously, she served jointly as the Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Women and Equalities from 2012 to 2015 and Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Justice from 2012 to 2013. She was also the Minister for Sport and Tourism from 2013 to 2015. Abimbola Afolami Afolami has been a member of the British Parliament for Hitchin and Harpenden constituency since 2017. He was born in 1986 to Nigerian doctor father and pharmacist mother. Before he became an MP, Afolami worked as a corporate lawyer for multinational law firms, Freshfields and Simpson Thacher & Bartlett. He also worked at HSBC, a British multinational investment bank and financial services holding company. Kate Osamor Aged 53, Osamor is a Nigerian-British politician who has served as Member of Parliament for Edmonton since 2015. In 2014, she was elected a member of the National Executive Committee of the UK Labour Party. She was previously appointed as Shadow Secretary of State for International Development by Jeremy Corbyn in June 2016. But she resigned in December 2018 following events surrounding her son’s drugs conviction. Vop Osili Samuel Ifeanyi “Vop” Osili, Jr is the President of District 11 of the Indianapolis City-County Council in the US. He was born in 1963 in Lagos, Nigeria, to a Nigerian father and an American mother. His parents reportedly nicknamed him ‘Vop’ (short for Voice of the People) because he was talkative as a toddler. Osili graduated from Carnegie-Mellon University with a bachelor’s degree in architecture and earned a master’s degree in architecture and urban design from Columbia University.        ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com