Raising children is a tough task especially at the formative stage when kids require much attention. The task can be particularly sapping when a child exhibits temper tantrums. This can make a parent overstretch their parenting techniques. As daunting as managing a toddler who does nasty things in a fit of anger can be, such behaviour is considered a normal stage of toddlerhood. Parents address children’s tantrums differently. While some parents use spanking as corrective measures, others might try to pacify them or simply look away. For Mrs Bose Olayemi, a mother of three, patience is the best means to deal with children with such temperament. She said “The parents should study that child and understand how they behave. In most cases, it is not by beating or being angry with them that will correct such a child. It won’t work.” The Executive Director of a Lagos-based non-governmental organisation, Child Rights Awareness Creation Organisation, Joseph Igwe, maintained that every parent should understand their children and figure out the reason they throw a tantrum. Igwe noted that temper tantrums were usually triggered by an action which the parents needed to unravel. He, however, said most parents reacted to it aggressively resulting in child abuse in most cases. He said, “You don’t correct children or discipline them by violence. You discipline by being closer to them and try to understand whatever they are doing. It is expected that the parents of a child throwing a tantrum will calm such a child and find out what the problem is. By doing so, the child will open up and if he doesn’t, there are other siblings or other persons at home who may know the reason. “The parents can then talk to the child why he should not behave in that manner. They should tell him how much they love him. If the child threw a tantrum because he was denied something, the parent should tell him why he was not given that thing. Next time, such a child will behave better.” Igwe observed that most times when parents beat children over temper tantrums, they (the kids) don’t realise they have done any wrong. He added, “So, parents should start by talking to their children and establishing friendship with them. Let them know what is wrong and what is right and the consequences of their action. If the child after knowing those things still didn’t change, there are different ways of disciplining that child without violence. Being violent doesn’t solve the problem. It will only worsen it.’’ An educationist and founder of Educom Africa, Mrs. Fateemah Ibraheem, noted that temper tantrums were a pointer children use to react to something done to them or an experience not comforting with their desire. Ibraheem said that there was the need for the parents to trace the source of the tantrum by asking questions around the validity or otherwise of such behaviour. She stated, “Temper tantrums are not just something on the surface. They are reactions that have their roots. First of all, we should go back to what exactly the child is reacting to. Many times, they can be obvious especially when the tantrums are violent. We just need to trace it back to the source if we want to correct the tantrums without proffering soft solutions. “In which case, soft solutions will not last; they will only work at that time and won’t work again because children also adjust. If as a parent you beat the child today to address the tantrum and he stops having felt the pain, the next time you beat that child, he might have adjusted to that level of beating. So nothing really changes. But if you are able to trace that step back to the source of the tantrum that is the first step to really know how to address it and get the child off unwarranted behaviour.” Ibraheem cautioned against adopting rigid methods to correcting children with temper tantrums, noting that explanations must be offered to children on actions triggering their outburst. She said, “Let say his toy has been withdrawn and that is why he is reacting. Why his toy was withdrawn would be the next question. If you as a parent are the one who withdrew it, then you have the answers. Maybe it is not the time to play. Then you need to take another step back to look at it. “Does the child have time to play? If there is really a time designed for playing, you can then begin to speak to the child around that. The more they understand, the more they will learn to outgrow that behaviour. If there is no such culture about playing time in the family, then it may be difficult for you to explain and help the child out of that tantrum. Parents should always provide alternatives.” The educationist also stated that tantrums sometimes could be a form of behaviour toddlers learnt from adults around them and considered as the best way to express themselves. She added, “Parenting is not a routine. It is a deliberate set of activities. So you are almost learning as your kid is growing. You become a researcher, a teacher and a learner so that you can address the child’s issues correctly.” According to a Professor of Psychology at the Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Christian Nweke, managing temper tantrums in children requires a lot of counselling.  Nweke, however, said there may be a need for a “reconditioning approach” in some occasions by applying negative action to the tantrum. He said, “A situation whereby a child throws themselves on the ground; breaks something, spoils objects or smashes their head on the wall is tantrum behaviour. One way to correct this is through counselling. “But sometimes, a reconditioning approach may work. When a child with a temper tantrum puts up a kind of behaviour that is negative, you correlate it with a negative measure to make it positive for instance, by way of giving a light punishment.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com