For many, fatherhood comes with a huge responsibility. What has been your experience? Frankly, I’m not sure whether it’s just a choice of language. I don’t know how people will take this, but I have always catered for people and I still do that. But I don’t quite see it as a ‘responsibility’. Rather I derive joy in catering for people. When did you start taking care of people as a father? I lost my father in 1984 and I became a lawyer in 1988, and from when I became a lawyer, during my national youth service, I started helping my siblings out. So, it’s been a part of the deal for me, from my siblings to my own children and to people who are not my children but who I feel need some help here and there. So, altogether, I haven’t felt any weight to say it’s a huge responsibility. It is also like the people I work with that I have to be responsible to, to ensure that at the end of the month they take home what they ought to take home. It’s all factored into living a wholesome life. When did you become a biological father? If you mean when I became, consciously, a father, I think that was when I had my first daughter 23 years ago. Did it make any difference to you? I know there are people who say they began to see visions when they became a father. But I don’t have that experience. My life has been joyous. I have had my children. I haven’t got any sad stories to tell; there has been no cataclysm. You were already a lawyer before you had your first daughter. Where were you when she was born? I wasn’t present when my first daughter was born, but I was present when four of my children were born. I have twin daughters and a son. The standard practice abroad is when a woman is having children, the man stays with the wife, so I was present then. In Nigeria, I have also had three other children and I was in the theatre on two occasions. On those two occasions, we had to pray with the doctor because it was a caesarean section. On the third occasion, I think I travelled but I made an arrangement before I travelled because we knew the delivery date, so I had made some payments and I came back as soon as I heard about the deliveries. Were you frightened on those occasions? I wasn’t frightened. It’s always a joy. Is there anything fatherhood has changed about you? I think the only thing is that when it’s nine or 10pm, I start to think of going home because I’ve got some people there who are waiting. When I was single, I could work until about 3am in the office before I would think of going home. Sometimes, you want to see the children or you want them to see you. Did fatherhood influence how you spend your resources? I have never been a spendthrift or one to indulge in things I cannot account for or are not productive. So, even before and after marriage or having children, I still manage my resources. The only difference is that before I got married, my mother used to be principally involved in keeping (my) money and all that because she felt that after marriage, I would have a wife that would help (me to)  keep the money. But there has been no cataclysmic change in any regard. Did your taking care of your siblings play any role in how you are raising your kids? Not at all; I think I started my family when biology started playing its tricks and then you find that a girl in love with you just won’t go away. So, we decided to do it. It didn’t have anything to do with my siblings. Has your career, as a human rights lawyer, had any impact on your family life? I really try to separate my work from my family life. I don’t take files home. I hardly discuss cases that I do at home. My passion for human rights is just something that I found as a calling, so, it wasn’t having children that made me want to work on human rights. My human rights activism is something I felt like a calling. Sometimes, I still question why I have that pull. Frankly, I would rather not be; I would rather be a corporate lawyer. I would rather wine and dine with the high and mighty than go into prisons and try to agitate for the rights of others. With your experience as a father, what does fatherhood mean to you? I have never really thought about the concept, except in relation to what we are taught about God and us (men). But I will think that a father is there to inspire his children, encourage them, expose them to the great opportunities of life and show them, by your example, that they can actually be anything they want to be, except, of course, being President of Nigeria, because that one is rotational. But besides that, you try as much as you can to help them be the best that they can be. That is what I focus on. You spoke about your mother playing a role in how you used your resources as a bachelor. Are there other virtues you learnt from her and your dad that have been helpful to you in raising your children? You learn a lot of things from your parents. My dad was a warrior of a man; he was a lion-hearted man. He feared no one and nothing. That is a virtue I try to live by and also teach my children. Also, from my mum, I learnt industry, and from both of them, I learnt tirelessness; they both loved to work and didn’t like cutting corners. Those were the virtues I learnt and I take them seriously. You said being a father is a thing of joy but to some men it’s a difficult task, for economic reasons. What is your opinion on that? First, a man fears what he does not know and a man fears because he has not cared to find out. I have lived in several countries around the world. I live in Nigeria now and I think this is one of the greatest countries on earth, in terms of opportunities. I read a report recently that the Nigerian economy is one of the fastest-growing economies. So, any young person who is afraid to start having children is only doing so because he lacks vision, he lacks the ability to be productive and creative. I can’t even slow down the opportunities I see every day, I just regret the lack of enough helpers or staff to be able to pursue the things we need to pursue. The opportunities are there; I mean you can make a fortune selling ‘pure water’. You can make a fortune selling tomatoes, selling rice and stew. I heard about a guy that fries yam in Lagos and is building a house. Some make bean cakes. I don’t want to exaggerate but I’ve lived in other countries and I think Nigeria is a place that offers you opportunities. The opportunities in this country are enormous. In the African culture, naming is very symbolic. How did you choose names for your children? I prayed about the names I gave my children because I believe in divine guidance. I believe that names are significant, not just in the African context but also because of my Christian belief. So, all my children came with names that are glorious and some of them reflect the beauty and contributions of people to me. For example, I asked my mother-in-law whether she would mind if I gave her name to one of my daughters.  I gave another daughter the name of my wife’s elder sister. I had other names, like Favour and Flourish that I got from the Bible. The Bible says the righteous shall flourish like a palm tree and we are surrounded by the favour of God. So, yes, I believe in the significance of names. Do you also believe in sharing house chores with your wife? Some men don’t like that. Well, I wash the toilets, if that helps. I don’t like seeing the toilets dirty at all. Usually, I just walk around and make sure I put the brush to the toilets. Apart from that, I don’t do any other thing in the house. But I believe in sharing responsibilities with my wife. When I was abroad, it was much easier to help out a little. My calling in life is to sue as many people as I can and I focus on that. Talking about suing, have you been of any influence to your kids in their career choices? I think most of my children want to study Law. The twin girls want to study Law and I think among the others, one or two are also thinking of studying Law. Maybe they like daddy being a lawyer, but I wouldn’t want them (to be lawyers) because it’s a lot of hard work and late nights. But I will not discourage anyone. I will encourage them if they want to study Law. In choosing a wife, what should a man consider? First of all, does she love you? I think that’s critical. I think every man who wants a wife should find a woman who loves him. It can be very boring to be with a man, sustaining factor is love. Apart from love, people like other things. For me, I like a beautiful woman. So, a woman should be attractive, if they (couple) don’t want to have children that are ugly. You also want a godly woman; I’m not quite sure how people will react to that, but that’s me. I think if you have a woman who loves God, then half of your problems are solved. She will pray for you and encourage you. She understands what it means to go out there and win the world, not that when you come home, she discourages you. For instance, she shouldn’t hear people complaining that I am suing and she comes home to beg me not to sue because our children are young and that she doesn’t want to be a widow. She should encourage me. You also want a wife that kisses you when you are leaving in the morning and kisses you when you return because it helps the man’s blood pressure. A woman should be romantic; some women are not romantic. The woman should welcome you and give you a warm embrace, not the woman that would be ready with her punching gloves without knowing where you are coming from or what you have endured throughout the day. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com