In line with one of the recommendations of the presidential panel led by former Court of Appeal President, Justice Ayo Salami, which investigated the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission and then acting chairman of the commission, Ibrahim Magu, last year, a new EFCC was born. This is so as Abdulrasheed Bawa is now the first EFCC chairperson not to have been an officer of the Nigeria Police Force, which makes him not a subservient officer to anyone including the Inspector-General of Police. As an independent, neutral, and even-handed chief of the nation’s anti-corruption agency, Bawa will directly answer to the people through the President and the legislature. In this regard, unlike the Nigeria Police Force with its chronic and embedded institutional and public troubles, the EFCC boss will independently approach all manner of corruption and criminal investigations with authoritative leadership in an environment that allows for objective and unbiased investigation. As the historical members of the Nigeria Police Force no longer attached or serving in the EFCC, he should fully utilise the EFCC cadet officers that demonstrate the highest degree of integrity and good character to do all the work he is mandated to carry out by law. At a time when Nigeria is in need of securing the rule of law and combating corruption at the corporate, federal, State, and local government levels, partnership with the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps will allow the EFCC to provide a unique opportunity for the enhancement of law enforcement and investigatory work across the nation. Through collaborative efforts between the EFCC and the NSCDC officers, investigators, and its specialised criminal and civil units across the nation, the public will more likely begin to view the EFCC with the eye of public trust and legitimacy. The Nigeria Police Force and its leadership, for the most part, is viewed nationally and internationally as deeply challenged on matters involving financial corruption. As such, the NPF is hardly trusted when it comes to the EFCC’s main domain of inquiry as it relates to the investigation of financial crimes. The NSCDC is fresh, and still has a better and good name than the way the NPF is perceived publicly and internationally. Just like the basic duties of the NPF, the NSCDC is equally responsible for maintaining public order and safety, enforcing the law, and preventing, detecting, and investigating criminal activities. The NSCDC should be more appealing to the EFCC’s needs in terms of intelligence sharing, securing and assets seized by the anti-corrupt agency, and in terms of jointly addressing multistate economic crime issues. The EFCC as an investigative and law enforcement agency should still have instituted partnerships whereby its staff will periodically work with other criminal justice agencies including the NPF as the goal of the justice system is to promote a safe and secure environment; maintain order, and strategically reduce the negative impact of financial crimes on the Nigeria society. On a lighter psychological note, the EFCC is leaving the past behind – the NPF, so that it can move forward; especially now that decentralisation of the Nigeria Police Force is around the corner, and state/local policing will be everywhere operationally. The only national semi-militarised and interstate patrol peacekeepers will be the NSCDC. Exactly the type of affiliation you want moving forward! Email: Jos5930558@aol.com