Foluke Ahmadu, who graduated with first class honours from the Department of Soil Resources and Environmental Management, Ekiti State University, tells OLADIMEJI RAMON about her journey to academic excellence Was becoming a soil scientist your childhood ambition or dream? No, I wouldn’t say so. Though I developed an interest in agricultural science right from secondary school, becoming a soil scientist was not my childhood ambition. I actually picked Computer Science and Mathematics in the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination because I love calculations. But I would say fate worked in my favour and JAMB (Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board) gave me Agricultural Science as a course of study at the Ekiti State University. So, I found myself in the Department of Soil Resources and Environmental Management and I have no regrets. Incidentally, three years before, University of Ibadan had offered me an admission to study Agricultural Science but I rejected the offer. So, this time, rather than fight against the offer, I immediately took it as an opportunity to enjoy the course. After all, I loved agric from secondary school, which is the equivalent of Soil Resources and Environmental Management that I studied in the university. I remember that my agric teacher in secondary school gave me a piece of land to cultivate and this, I believe, gave me a sense of love for soil. My love for agriculture is in the fact that it is the bedrock of life. So, I have no regrets studying Soil Resources and Environmental Management. Did you set out to make first class from 100L or at what point did the possibility of making first class occur to you? Graduating with first class was never my intention; I was just determined to have good grades because I believe so much in being successful in whatever I invest my time in. I have long adopted the principle that whatever my hands find to do, I will do it with all my might and make a difference. It has been the norm for me right from my childhood never to settle for less and I have the determination to always be the best wherever I find myself.  However, finishing with first class wasn’t by chance too, I will say grace sought me. It was after I checked my 100L results that I came to the conclusion that it was possible for me to graduate with first class. What was your Cumulative Grade Points Average at graduation? I graduated with a CGPA of 4.68. When you saw your final results and realised that you made first class honours, how did you feel? I had kept an update and track of all my results from my 100L and in 400L and 500L, I knew I was there, having had two semesters of 5.0. So, it was very easy for me in my final year to know what I was graduating with. I was so happy because I did not only finish with first class but also as the overall best graduating student in the Department of Soil Resources and Environmental Management and the Faculty of Agricultural Sciences at large. I felt fulfilled that I ended up with first class and I was also grateful to God for seeing me through. You said you have two siblings who also finished with first class honours.  What are their names, the courses they studied and the university they graduated from? Yes. The first is Adejayan Oluwakemi (nee Ojo), who graduated with first class from the Department of Banking and Finance, Ekiti State University, in 2011; while the second one, Mrs Olayinka Odunigba (nee Ojo), graduated with first class from the Department of French, Faculty of Arts and Humanities in the same Ekiti State University in 2014. Were they the ones who inspired you to strive for first class honours? Not really, but I would say they were among my mentors because the three of us were roommates in the university. Being the youngest child in the family of seven, they gave me their full support where necessary. I will say generally in our family, we have an innate drive for excellence. We have all been trained to always be the best in whatever we do. The principle to be the best was inspired by our mother, a teacher and disciplinarian who went through all odds to finish strong as a civil servant. I also remember how she went back to school to obtain her (first) degree after we were all born and had become grown-ups. Her strong will inspired us to be the best and not to entertain excuses for failure. I was equally inspired by our elder brother who was working and schooling at the same time as a full-time student. Despite combining work with his studies, he still graduated with very strong second class upper honours. These were the people, whose examples inspired me to work hard to be the best that I can be. And, of course, God – a loving father, whose thought towards us is of good and not of evil to take us to an expected end. I will say my relationship with God was the best decision I have made because He saw me through the entire process. Was there something that your parents consciously did to make you and your siblings graduate with first class? I will say my parents gave us the right and solid foundation needed academically and spiritually. My mum was a disciplinarian and a teacher and my dad is an accountant. They guided us towards the path of hard work and God from our early years. As children, we often represented our church in different competitions. My parents are very prayerful and hard-working, and they believe in nothing but the best. They encouraged us to be focused even when it seemed that all hope was lost. Which secondary school did you attend and were you a star student in secondary school too? I attended Imoye High School, Mile 2, Lagos. I was a star student in my school and I held the position of the Assistant Head Girl in my Junior Secondary School and also the Library Prefect in my Senior Secondary School. I represented my school well in quiz competitions and debates and won prizes. Did you win any prize during your graduation from the university? Yes. I won the prize for the Best Graduating Student in the Faculty of Agricultural Sciences. Did you adopt any special study method in the university? Yes, I did. I adopted the method of reading through all my books after all lectures for the day before going back to my hostel. Although, this method might not be special for some students, it worked for me. Were there things you had to forgo to be able to focus on your studies in the university? Yes, I had to forgo most of my sleeping and leisure times for studying. Do you mean that after reading all the notes you took in lectures before returning to your hostel every day, you still stayed up at night to read in the hostel? Yes and this was because the workload for Soil Resources and Environmental Management, which I studied, was much. A particular course could be taken by three lecturers and I also needed to go beyond my lecture notes so I could have deeper understanding of the courses. Where was your favourite reading spot; library or elsewhere? I had a particular spot in one of our lecture theatres where I studied mostly in the evenings and my room mostly for midnight or weekend studies. Why did you prefer these places to the school library? I’m fond of taking water at intervals while studying but this was actually prohibited in the library. More importantly, the library was too far from my faculty and I could remember a particular day I trekked a far distance to the library and on getting there, I slept almost throughout and I could not cover much ground (laughs). I discovered that I cover more ground when I study in the lecture theatres. If you devoted so much time to reading, did you have time to participate in your favourite extracurricular activities at all? Oh, yes, I still had time for extracurricular activities, but essentially in the church where I was made the assistant leader of our choreography unit because I love dancing. I also unwound by playing Ludo game, which is my favourite, in the hostel and most importantly, I loved counselling the younger ones, as I was a relationship/marriage counsellor. Some people believe that getting involved in a relationship as an undergraduate may be a distraction. Was it the same for you? I feel it may or may not be, depending on the people involved and their level of maturity. For me, I was in a relationship from 300L till I graduated and it was not in any way a distraction in our case.  I would say I was lucky to be with an understanding person, who had the same vision as me and we read together and watched each other’s backs. Even though our relationship didn’t end up in marriage, we never regretted knowing each other for that period. We were committed to seeing each other succeed; so, there was no distraction in our case. I will say it all depends on the people involved, their maturity, their focus and what they do with their time. Will you say you were sociable on campus? Yes, I was very sociable. In fact, if you were looking for me, just come to my department and mention my name, anyone would bring you to me (laughs).  I also won the award of the friendliest female student in my set. However, at a point I reduced my social activities on campus because of my focus. I believe pleasure comes after a great job. Considering my temperament as a Sagittarius, I consciously bridled my tendency to be excessively social so I could finish with flying colours. Was there any moment you can describe as challenging, when you thought you might not graduate with first class? Yes. My last two years on campus were very challenging, especially during exam periods. I always fell ill to the point that I would think I wouldn’t be able to write my exams. But on my hospital bed when I was supposed to be sleeping, I read all through just to meet up. It was really challenging for me but I thank God I overcame. Another challenging time was during the second semester examination in my 400L, when I had to write 10 courses in five days at a stretch before going for my industrial training. This was a very challenging period for me considering our workload at that time. What advice will you give to anyone aiming to make first class? Please put God first in all you do; only He can crown the effort of a man with success. Also, hard work does not kill; keep studying to show yourself approved. Believe in yourself, that you can make it and stand strong, no matter the obstacles on your way. Never be discouraged, no matter what; keep aiming for the best and the sky is your starting point. Do you plan to go for your Master’s or get a job? I’m already on my Master’s programme in Environmental Soil Science and I will be rounding off in few months time. After my Master’s, I will get a job by His grace and then proceed for my PhD if God tarries. Where do you dream to work? I will love to work as a lecturer in any prestigious university or at the Federal Ministry of Agriculture because I believe that one day, I will be appointed as the Minister of Agriculture. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com