State governments are currently applying for N2.5bn loan each to shore up their healthcare funds in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic. It was gathered on Saturday that the applications must fall within the guidelines of the Central Bank of Nigeria, as many states are currently indebted domestically and internationally. Senior officials from the Federal Ministry of Finance and the Debt Management Office told our correspondent in Abuja that the application was different from the $2.1bn loan that was advanced to the states by the CBN in 2015. “The states requested that the facility be made available to them for their healthcare needs, basically for the purpose of COVID-19,” an official at the DMO, who spoke on condition of anonymity, as he was not authorised to speak on the matter, said. The official added, “The loan is also like a support and so the states are to get N2.5bn each from the special facility for the support of their healthcare needs. “A good number of states have applied for that and we await till when the request comes from the Ministry of Finance.” The official noted that the borrowing by states must be kept within limits, stressing that the DMO was aware of the $2.1bn loan given to states in 2015. The Federal Government had approved $2.1bn as intervention package in 2015 to help bankrupt states pay salaries and offset contractors’ obligations. Recently, the CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, while kicking against claims that Nigeria printed N60bn in March, said the apex bank would start deducting the budget support loan it gave to states. Emefiele said, “It is very inappropriate for people to give colouration to printing of money as if it is some foreign words coming from the sky. “It’s important for me to put it this way that in 2015/16, the kind of situation we found ourselves in, we did provide a budget support facility to all the states of this country. “That loan is still unpaid up till now. We are going to insist on them paying back those monies since they are accusing us of giving them loans.” The DMO official, however, stated on Saturday that it was not only states that were borrowing, adding that the current demands for loans must be strictly based on laid-down guidelines. The official said, “It is not only the states that borrow, the Federal Government also borrows, but it must be kept within limits. “So the states needed to make the request based on the guidelines of the CBN on borrowing to finance healthcare needs. Some states took advantage of that window to finance their health sector.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com