THE Department of State Services has said the Indigenous People of Biafra’s Eastern Security Network has acquired bombs and explosives with which they intended to destabilise Imo State. The secret police stated that it received intelligence that the explosives were being moved in articulated trucks from Lagos to a hideout in Orlu, Imo State. READ ALSO: My parents assassinated a month after my Abuja wedding – Son The DSS stated this in a letter to the Brigade Commander, 34 Artillery Brigade, Obinze, Owerri, Imo State. The DSS letter with reference number, S.238/5/1538 dated April 26, 2021, was signed by I. Abdullah on behalf of the Imo State DSS Director. It was titled, ‘Movement of explosive devices into the state by IPOB/ESN’.’ The letter read, “Intelligence revealed that the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra/Eastern Security Network has acquired bombs and Improvised Explosive Devices with which to further their subversive activities. “It was reliably gathered that the newly acquired items are currently being conveyed from Lagos to an unconfirmed location in Orlu Local Government Area. “The items are being concealed in articulated/heavy duty vehicles to beat security checks along the road. It was further revealed that the group intends to deploy the explosives in their planned attacks on security/government installations across the state.” The DSS, therefore, advised the Brigade commander to ensure that deployed security personnel carried out thorough search on trucks coming to the state. DSS lying against IPOB  – Spokesman Reacting, the proscribed IPOB denied the allegation that it was moving arms and other weaponry into Imo to destabilise the state. It stressed that there was no iota of truth in the “allegation coming from the Zoo agent” called Department of States Security, adding that anybody or institution was free to say whatever they liked about IPOB. The group’s Director of Media and Publicity, Emma Powerful, stated this in an interview with our correspondent on Wednesday. “What the DSS is saying is a huge lie. There is no iota of truth in what that Federal Government-sponsored Zoo and Caliphate agent is saying. Now, did you listen to my interview with Channels Televisions, two days ago? “It’s just like the question the Channels Television guy asked. He asked me, ‘Who is sponsoring IPOB?’ I told him there was no single individual sponsoring IPOB. IPOB is a very gigantic movement. “There is no truth in that allegation. Where are we moving the arms to and from where? I don’t think it is wise to continue to reply whatever this Zoo people accuse us of,” Powerful said. FG orders improved security at airports In a related development, the Ministry of Interior has directed the Commandant-General, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Dr Ahmed Audi, to liaise with the airport authorities to scale up security at the nation’s airports. The directive followed a security alert on impending security threats to the airports from the Ministry of Aviation. This was contained in a letter dated April 15, addressed to the Commandant-General, and signed on behalf of the minister by the Director, Joint Services, P. Egbodo. When asked about the steps taken to secure the airports on Wednesday, the NSCDC spokesman, Olusola Odumosu, promised to find out. But he had yet to respond as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com