The Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project has called on the United Nations Human Rights office led by the High Commissioner, Michelle Bachelet, to appoint a country rapporteur to examine the growing attacks on students, teachers and their families in Nigeria. The rights group also urged the UN to investigate the failure of authorities in Nigeria to prevent the attacks and hold perpetrators and their sponsors to account. SERAP made the call in reaction to the killing of three students of a private-owned higher institution, Greenfield University, Kasarami in Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State. The bodies of the three students were found on Friday days after bandits stormed their school and abducted them along with their colleagues. Reacting, SERAP in a statement said, “The killing of these students is a grim reminder of the horrific toll that the violence and insecurity across Nigeria is having on children and their education. READ ALSO: Pantami: Presidency’s statement confirms sympathy for terrorism —PDP “The attacks on students are increasing, and Nigerian authorities are unwilling or unable to stop the attacks. “The authorities have refused to promptly and effectively investigate reports of attacks on students, teachers and their families, to prosecute the terrorists and their sponsors, and to provide effective remedies to victims. “We are calling on @mbachelet @UNHumanRights to appoint a country rapporteur to examine the growing attacks on students, teachers and their families, and the authorities’ failure to prevent the attacks and hold perpetrators and their sponsors to account. “We urge @mbachelet @UNHumanRights @UN_SPExperts to publicly condemn the continuing insecurity and attacks on students in the country and to urge Nigerian authorities to ensure the safety and security of students, and to promptly secure the safe release of all abducted students. “We also urge @mbachelet to prevail on the Nigerian authorities to urgently protect schools across the country, carry out a credible investigation on the abduction and killing of the Greenfield students, and ensure that those responsible for these atrocities are held to account. READ ALSO: How CCTV facilitated Nollywood actor, Baba Ijesha’s arrest for defiling minor “The killing of students and attacks on educational facilities constitute serious violations of the Nigerian Constitution 1999 [as amended] and international human rights law. “@NigeriaGov @NGFSecretariat need to do more to ensure that children can study safely. “The authorities should deter further attacks and secure Nigerian children’s right to education.”