THE sudden death of the President of Chad, Idriss Déby, 68, from injuries he sustained on the battlefront on April 20, after 30 years in power, presents a clear and present challenge to Nigeria’s security. It also has serious implications on stability in the Sahel region, especially as it concerns the long-drawn battle against the Islamic terrorist group, Boko Haram, in the North-East. Déby shot his way into power in December 1990 through a military coup against Hissène Habré. His son, already a general in the Chadian Army, Mahamat Déby Itno, has been appointed by the military as his replacement after suspending the constitution and dissolving the government. In its place, the army spokesman, Azem Bermendao Agouna, announced that a military council headed by Mahamat, 37, will, in the interim, oversee the country for the next 18 months. This means the country has unfortunately been thrust into a full-blown military dictatorship. This is condemnable and reprehensible. It is a major drawback for democracy in Africa. The Nigerian authorities should brace themselves and fashion out strategies of confronting the new realities eventuated by Déby’s sudden demise. The fact that there was no consideration for a transition of power to the president of the parliament as required by law speaks to the fragility of democracy in the country despite Déby’s three decades of civilian rule. In fact, the country’s 2018 constitution states that the president of the National Assembly should serve as the interim president in the case of a vacancy in the presidency. And if that person is unable to do so, the first vice-president should step in. Then, the interim president is given at least 45 days and at most 90 days after the vacancy is opened to conduct elections and find someone to permanently replace the president. The transition is disconcerting and unconstitutional. It reinforces the “strong man” syndrome, instead of strong institutions, that has blighted Africa’s development and a lack of faith in the democratic process. The African Union and ECOWAS should therefore deploy their diplomatic and political weight to ensure a quick restoration to democratic rule in the country. It is instructive that Déby died just days after being declared the winner in Chad’s controversial election held on April 11 with 79 per cent of the votes cast, giving him a sixth term in office. Sadly, the election was headlined by an opposition boycott, citing political intimidation, ban of opposition rallies and arrest of opposition politicians. Déby shelved his scheduled victory speech to visit the troops fighting the Libyan-based rebel forces on the border known by the acronym, FACT. The group had reportedly attacked a border post on election day and then moved hundreds of kilometres towards the capital, N’djamena, a testy incursion Déby, himself a war-tested Muammar Gaddafi-trained soldier, sought to repel before he met his unfortunate death. In 2008, it required a combination of Chadian and French army forces to repel a different rebel force bent on toppling Déby from reaching the capital city. Although he could not be classified as the poster boy of democracy in West Africa, Déby was courted by the West, especially France, which maintains a military base in the country. But he is rightly described by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), “as a friend of Nigeria who had enthusiastically lent his hand in our efforts to defeat the murderous Boko Haram terrorists that have posed grave security challenges not only for Nigeria, but also our African neighbours, particularly Chad, Cameroon and the Niger Republic.” Déby personally led his troops to the Lake Chad zone in 2020 in pursuit of Boko Haram insurgents that carried out a series of attacks on some Chadian soldiers and ran to their hideout in Nigeria, which seemed to offer them more respite. To his credit, unlike his Nigerian counterpart, he built a nimble and effective army, which experts say is the most potent in the Sahel region, and served as a stabilising force to fight Islamic terrorism. Therefore, the Niger Republic government negotiated for the deployment of Chadian forces in the country to contain the insurgents. What happens to this army and the neighbouring countries in the years after the death should be of interest to all. Indeed, his sudden death has opened a new chapter in the fight against terrorism in Nigeria and peace and stability in the Sahel region. The President himself admitted that it “will surely create a big vacuum in the efforts to jointly confront the Boko Haram terrorists and the Islamic State of West Africa Province.” Ostensibly, because of the very active role Déby played in the regional joint military force against the Boko Haram terrorists in the Lake Chad area. If his successor lacks the same vigour, force, and push in the fight against terrorism, Nigeria will inevitably be the worse for it given its subsisting multifarious security challenges. Consequently, Nigeria should throw away its lethargy and rise to the occasion by providing decisive leadership to strengthen the multinational force to avert an escalation of its internal security challenges. The key to achieving this is by retooling and motivating the fighting forces. Unlike Buhari who has displayed a disconcerting lack of conviction in the fight against Boko Haram, Déby was always on the frontlines, with a well-motivated army, guided by a strong belief that the insurgents should be crushed. Unfortunately, his long stay in power did not translate to the improvement of the wellbeing of Chadian citizens even with the country’s oil wealth. While his children live in affluence, and occupy enviable positions in government, the same cannot be said of the citizens. Chad came last in the World Bank’s 2020 Human Capital Index, while the United Nations Development Programme ranked it 187 out of 189 countries in its 2020 Human Development Index. The US Department of State’s Chad 2019 Human Rights Report, according to the Brookings Institution, notes that “impunity remains pervasive throughout Chad —there are arbitrary and other politically motivated killings by state- and non-state actors; there is torture by security forces; and arbitrary and incommunicado detention by the government; as well as harsh and potentially life-threatening prison conditions.” Efforts should be made by the new authorities to open the civic space, release political prisoners, and ensure quick restoration of the democratic order in the country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com