’Tosin Oluwalowo Enyimba coach Fatai Osho says his team are ready for the knockout stage of the CAF Confederation Cup and hopes to better their performance last season, when they reached the quarter-final stage. Cyril Olisema scored a 95th minute goal for the People’s Elephant to secure a 1-0 victory over South Africans Orlando Pirates at the Enyimba International Stadium Aba, Wednesday night. The victory fired Enyimba to the quarter-final stage of the competition as group leaders with nine points. Speaking after the victory, Osho said the team was now focused on the quarter-finals. “I give a lot of commendation to the players for their resilience. So, we want to celebrate this moment and we will start looking at the knockout stage,” Osho said. “It has been like that for some time, but we have really tried to get it better. Unfortunately, we didn’t see the improvement today (Wednesday) as required. But going forward, I can assure you that things will get better. “Last year, I was coach when we got to the quarter-finals. In anything you do, you try to get better. “If we reached the quarter-finals last year, then we should do better this year. That is the most important thing,” he added. Meanwhile Pirates coach Josef Zinnbauer said Enyimba’s attitude helped them secure victory and qualification. “It was a tough game for us, we had a good start, we had the first chances but couldn’t score, in the second half we were under more pressure and we changed tactics. “The opponents did very well, they were hot, they wanted to qualify, we were unlucky in the last minute and conceded and lost the game. Enyimba had six new players on the field, they needed the result and they had the right attitude and it helped them win the game. It was a very good performance from them,” Zinnbauer said during the post match. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com