THE Central Bank of Nigeria’s announcement that it had so far released N803.36 billion under its intervention programme for the manufacturing sector excites hope of saving jobs and reviving production in an economy in turmoil. Part of a N1 trillion stimulus it packaged last year to support the industry in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and global meltdown, the CBN said 228 projects benefitted from the disbursements across the mining, agro-allied, steel, and packaging sub-sectors, among others. Though a commendable initiative, the federal and state governments need to do much more to derive maximum impact from this and similar interventions. Designed to improve access to affordable credit by domestic producers in critical sectors, refinance existing facilities to facilitate procurement of modern machinery and automated systems, the intervention aims to rejuvenate production and support the Federal Government’s own stimulus measures for the manufacturing sector. This is in line with global trends as governments have scrambled to sustain domestic economic activities, including manufacturing that accounted for 16 percent of global GDP in 2018, according to Research and Markets, a Dublin, Ireland-based consultancy. Manufacturing, a key part of the secondary economic sector, contributes 10 per cent to Nigeria’s GDP and should be revitalised to help reverse the crippling 33.3 per cent jobless rate. Engaged in the production of goods using labour, machines, tools, chemical or biological processing, a thriving manufacturing sector stimulates agriculture and mining for raw materials, transportation, supply, and services sub-sector, boosting direct and indirect employment and public tax revenues along its value chains. It has been critical to the ascendancy of advanced economies and the transition to export-led miracles of successful emerging economies. Serious governments, therefore, accord it priority and Nigeria should as well. The CBN has been making brave efforts here and through similar interventions in agriculture, mining, aviation and the critical SMEs sector amid the recession, public revenue shortages, unprecedented inflation and unemployment and factory closures. Alas, the impact of these measures has been, and will likely remain subpar as they collide with the unpalatable realities of the stifling operating environment and Nigeria’s primitive governance model. As the CBN released its N803 billion missive, the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry complained afresh of how investments are imperilled by difficulties in obtaining foreign exchange to procure raw materials, machinery and critical production inputs, the result of a chaotic forex market headlined by multiple exchange rates, opacity, and graft. Also, operators lamented that inflation that hit a record high of 18.17 per cent in March “weakens consumer purchasing power, accentuates production costs, impacts negatively on profitability and undermines investors’ confidence.” Other drawbacks include terribly poor infrastructure, especially roads and railways, insecurity, corruption and bureaucratic red tape, multiple taxation and charges, policy inconsistency and gridlock at the ports. In the World Bank’s Ease of Doing Business report 2020, the country was ranked 131 of 190 economies compared to Ghana at 118 and Kenya at an impressive 56. Borrowing rates for the productive sectors at between 17 per cent and 30 per cent severely inhibit big operators and squeeze out MSMEs. But the major drawback is power: The World Bank has said that epileptic electricity costs businesses in Nigeria about $29 billion annually. On average, only about 4,000 megawatts (though generation capacity is much higher) are available for a population of 206 million and Africa’s largest economy. Forced to rely on standby generators, producers incur between 35 and 45 per cent extra costs thereby rendering made-in-Nigeria products uncompetitive. No quantum of incentives can fully overcome this albatross; without adequate power, unleashing an industrial revolution is simply impossible. The country loses out. Of the five BRICS countries club which Nigeria aspires to join to expand to BRINCS, four are listed by the World Bank among the world’s top 20 countries by manufacturing value: China, 1, India 6, Russia 10, and Brazil 13. South Africa is at 42, but Nigeria’s ranking at 35 is driven by its oil production. Solving the problem requires both simple and hard choices: painless measures include merging forex rates, eliminating multiple taxes, fees and charges and enforcing the Executive Orders easing operating rules at the ports and airports. As the LCCI president, Toki Mabogunje, said, there should be a convergence between fiscal and monetary policies to “strengthen investor confidence and engender macroeconomic stability.” Key sectors such as oil and gas downstream, aviation, ports and steel should be further liberalised with the government exiting commercial enterprises entirely to allow private sector-led enterprise. Repealing the restrictive Railway Act 1955, long promised but unfulfilled by successive parliamentary leaders, should be undertaken immediately to end federal monopoly, open the sector to domestic and foreign investment and save the country from the frenzied borrowing by the current regime for multiple rail projects. The ports and airports should be liberalised through privatisation and concessions. Beyond these low-hanging fruits, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and the states need to muster the strong political will and take hard decisions to promote productive activities, beginning with stamping out insecurity. Buhari needs to privatise state-owned companies post-haste to encourage FDI and industrialisation. Instead of projects on political grounds, he should prioritise the Apapa Ports access roads, Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Second Niger Bridge, East-West Road, the Lagos and Abuja airports. These not only generate huge public revenues, but they also generate employment and investment. There should a drastic review of the 2013 power sector asset sales and decisive intervention to end the quagmire. The states need to formulate economic policies and compete to attract investment in agriculture, mining and manufacturing and provide rural infrastructure. These will create jobs, facilitate infrastructure build-up, and improve revenue inflow. All tiers of government should devise more effective stimulus to the MSMEs sector and start-ups, described as the engines of industrialisation, innovation, and export diversification. The hardest nut to crack, but ultimately the most beneficial and enduring, is to urgently reorganise the country into an effective federation where resource control, fiscal federalism and autonomy will drive competition and development and optimally harness human and material resources to achieve the goal of industrialisation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com