The National Vice Chairman of Peoples Democratic Party, South-South, Chief Dan Orbih, on Monday, said the criticisms against the Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, over the printing of N60bn to add to March allocation for states by the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria, Mr Godwin Emefiele, was politically motivated. He made the remark while receiving the Speaker of Oyo State House of Assembly, Ogundoyin Adebo, who led some youth on courtesy call on him in his Benin residence. “I will like to use this opportunity to say something about the recent outburst of the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Godwin Emefiele, over the sad revelations by the Edo State governor that the Federal Government printed over N60bn to be able to make up the money required to pay their statutory allocations to the various tiers of government. “To me, the outburst was political. I condemn the CBN governor’s remarks because he said so much without convincing Nigerians about the economics to make the decision to print over N60bn to meet the statutory allocations,” he said. Orbih said the revelations by the Edo State governor was a clear manifestation that all was not well with the nation’s economy and that if drastic measures were not taken to address the situation, it might be worse than what happened in Uganda. “We need the youths to come up with ideas and programmes that will help this government to come out of their mess because the revelations by Godwin Obaseki is a sad reminder of what happened in Uganda under former President Idi Amin. “No government can sustain the economy of a country with that type of abuse,” he said. He added, “I think it is time for us as a country to make it very clear that whoever assumes the office of CBN governor should have his loyalty to the people of our country and not the government. That is why we must take it seriously this revelation by Godwin Obaseki. “It is my prayer and hope that very soon the CBN will come out clearly to tell Nigerians that they have what it takes to bailout us out from this predicament.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com