The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Tuesday stressed the need for the support of the United States and other “important and strategic partners” in combating the security challenges facing Nigeria. He said the support was necessary because the consequences of insecurity in Nigeria would affect all nations. According to a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, the President made the call during a virtual meeting with the US Secretary of State, Mr Anthony Blinken. The statement was titled, ‘Security: President Buhari asks US to relocate headquarters of AFRICOM to Africa, warns of likely spill over.” Apart from seeking the assistance of the US, according to the Presidency’s statement, Buhari also called on the US to consider relocating US Africa Command from Stuttgart, Germany, to Africa, nearer the Theatre of Operation. Buhari said, “The security challenges in Nigeria remain of great concern to us and impacted more negatively by existing complex negative pressures in the Sahel, Central and West Africa, as well as the Lake Chad Region. “Compounded as the situation remains, Nigeria and her security forces remain resolutely committed to containing them and addressing their root causes. “The support of important and strategic partners like United States cannot be overstated as the consequences of insecurity will affect all nations hence the imperative for concerted cooperation and collaboration of all nations to overcome these challenges. “In this connection, and considering the growing security challenges in West and Central Africa, Gulf of Guinea, Lake Chad region and the Sahel, weighing heavily on Africa, it underscores the need for the United States to consider re-locating AFRICOM headquarters from Stuttgart, Germany, to Africa and near the Theatre of Operation.” The statement also quoted the Secretary of State as saying that he was pleased to make Nigeria part of his “first virtual visit to Africa.” He added that he would be delighted to build on the foundation that was laid between the two countries over 60 years ago, disclosing that areas of discussion with Nigeria would include “how to build our economies back after the COVID-19 pandemic, security for vulnerable communities, and climate issues.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com