How did you meet your wife? I met her years before we became friends.  We knew each other as students who often happened to be engaged on vacation jobs at the same architectural office. Some years after graduation, we found ourselves working in the same office, at the University of Benin, Edo State. We worked together as colleagues for about three years before my eyes opened. How did you know she was the one for you? After knowing her for long, I suddenly realised that I was blind although my eyes were wide open. The scales fell off my eyes and I saw her for the first time after many years. I have not had any moment to regret that brilliant vision. How long have you been married? We have been married for 34 years. How has the marriage journey been? Our marriage journey has been exceptionally smooth. We know ourselves pretty well and she generously accommodates me, being a true lover, companion, friend and comrade. We support and complement each other. We are both architects and environmental activists. Even so, although our vocations blend, we retain our individual interests and pursue them. Knowing each other rather well has also been helpful as it helps our transparency with each other. We learn to hear each other’s moments of silence and when we speak. It has been a jolly good ride all along. How were you able to strike a balance between your marriage and career? Both of us are in the same vocations. We leave home together for the office and return home together at the close of the day. Before COVID-19 pandemic, I was peripatetic. Due to my involvement in international climate justice campaigns, I was frequently away from home and out of the country. One thing we agreed to early in our marriage was that no matter how huge the physical distance between us was, we ensured to bridge the social distance. We stay in touch constantly, like at least every morning and then checking in at the close of the day, depending on the manageability of the time zones. During the military dictatorship, our kids were young and the entire family had to go underground at a time. So, we raised our kids on the go, so to speak. My wife has special skills and a unique temperament that attract children. Our children are fairly independent and we endeavour to provide social and spiritual guard rails for them while allowing them to build their vocations. We have been blessed with incredible children. Fortunately or unfortunately for us, we never saw ourselves as career professionals. I worked in the public service for nine years, 10 months and resigned thereafter. My wife worked in the public service for a bit longer. We grew up simply immersed in struggles. We were fortunate to make a living from our architectural practice all the time. What do you love about being married? The thing I love most about being married is knowing that there is someone who stands by me and has my back, no matter what. Marriage is indeed a journey, a school, and I am enjoying the ride and the learning. What is your advice for young people preparing to marry? My advice to young people is to tie the knot once they are ready. They should ensure that they marry their friend and not a stranger, no matter how promising the stranger may appear. It is important to understand the person one wishes to spend one’s life with. They should bear in mind that no one is perfect. Not even them! They should ensure they have some common interests, share the same spiritual faith and understand each other’s socio-cultural background. If you are a believer in love at first sight, ensure that your sight is good. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com