One Lukman Adeshina has been arrested by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission for allegedly defrauding a Bureau De Change operator of $10,000. It was gathered that Adeshina was arrested on April 14, 2021, in the Ipaja-Ayobo area of Lagos State after one Isa Mohammed approached the anti-graft agency to make a complaint against him. Mohammed, according to a statement by the Head of Media and Publicity, EFCC, Wilson Uwujaren, alleged that a BDC operator, Bashir Isa, sometime in March 2020 approached him with an offer to sell $10,000, while he would pay the naira equivalent of the dollars to him. He alleged that when Isa requested a dollar account, where the money would be paid into, he was provided with a Wells Fargo Bank account number 4861511475, adding that upon receipt of the money paid by one Thomas Joyner in the United States of America, he transferred the sum of N3.5m into Isa’s account in a new generation bank. He, however, said that the said sum of $10,000 was reversed by Wells Fargo on the grounds that the transaction was unauthorised and fraudulent. According to Uwujaren, investigation revealed that Isa made the transactions on behalf of Adeshina, who confessed to being involved in scamming unsuspecting victims and defrauding them of huge sums of money. Isa also claimed that he approached the complainant based on a call he received from one Muttaka Idris to help him provide an account in the USA, where dollars could be paid into. When apprehended by the EFCC, Idris claimed that when he received the Wells Fargo account details, he gave it to one Jamil Na-Allah, who also asked him for it. In his statement to the EFCC, Na-Allah, a BDC operator, revealed that he got a call from the suspect, who informed him that he wanted to sell $10,000 and asked for a US account, where the money would be paid into. Na-Allah claimed that upon the payment of the money into the account, the sum of N3m was transferred into his account, out of which he transferred N2,730,000 into the suspect’s account after he had taken his share and that of Idris from it. Uwujaren added that the suspect would be charged soon. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com