THE strike by the Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria has received the tacit support of the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Ibrahim Tanko Muhammad, who declared that the reasons for the action were genuine. The CJN said it had become difficult to fault the idea of the strike since the rights of the union and its members, which had been clearly defined in the constitution, were being denied, especially at state levels. “I can’t fault your reasons for embarking on this protest because the union wants its rights restored in line with the provisions of the constitution. I commend you for following due process so far to protest against the injustice,” the CJN said during a meeting he had with JUSUN national leaders in Abuja on Wednesday. A statement issued on Thursday by the Senior Special Assistant (Media) to the CJN, Ahuraka Isah, indicated that the meeting was ostensibly to give him a feedback on his recent demand on the union to call off the ongoing strike. During the meeting, JUSUN maintained its position why it would not suspend the strike action. The union said the action would only be suspended if state governors began to demonstrate some level of seriousness by putting in place some measures precedent to the implementation of financial autonomy for judiciary in their respective states. The Deputy National President of JUSUN, Emmanuel Abioye, told the CJN that the state governors must begin to demonstrate some level of seriousness by putting in place some measures precedent to the implementation of financial autonomy for judiciary in their respective states. SAN kicks as Lagos JUSUN resumes partially Meanwhile, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa, has faulted the partial suspension of strike by the Lagos State Chapter of the Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria. The Chairman of the Lagos State chapter of JUSUN, Asiwaju Kehinde, had said his members would resume partially in view of the meeting held with stakeholders in the state where 70 per cent of their demands were met, adding that their other demands were being speedily looked into and results manifesting. Kehinde, in a statement noted that the workers would work on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday. The statement read in part, “Therefore, work and official duties are constrained to Wednesday, Thursday and Friday of every week while Monday and Tuesday of every week remain our strike days.” But Adegboruwa described the union’s move as unacceptable. He said, “This purported partial call-off of the strike by Lagos JUSUN is absolutely unacceptable. From my records, the Federal Government is in compliance with financial autonomy even more than Lagos State, yet federal workers are on solidarity strike. “I ask JUSUN; who is collecting revenue for the courts in Lagos State? Is it not Alpha Beta? Who buys vehicles for judges and staff? Is it not the executive? Why do we deceive ourselves? “Personally, I’m concerned that the government of Lagos State is doing so much to abort the strike action in the same fashion that it succeeded in dividing the NBA into executive sessions in state House Marina, instead of mass action. It is either you are on strike or you are not.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com