The President of Sierra Leone, Julius Bio, has lauded Nigeria’s immense contributions to the country’s peace and development. According to a statement on Wednesday by the Senior Special Assistant to the Vice President on Media and Publicity, Laolu Akande, Bio said this on Tuesday as Sierra Leone marked its 60th Independence at a series of events in Freetown, the capital city. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, who represented Nigeria’s President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), joined other African leaders at the celebrations. They include Presidents of Ghana, Nana Akufo-Addo; Liberia, George Weah; The Gambia, Adama Barrow; and Guinea, Alpha Conde. Also in attendance was the Prime Minister of Guinea Bissau, Nuno Nabiam, and a Special Envoy of the President of Ivory Coast. Speaking at the event, Osinbajo said the celebrations are worthwhile “especially considering all of what Sierra Leone has been through in the 11 years of civil war and they have emerged from that terrible experience, much stronger, a united country and developing everyday, economically and socially.” He added that “it is a very happy event and we are all extremely proud of what the Sierra Leoneans have been able to do. We were very warmly hosted by President Bio and all the members of his cabinet and the good people of Sierra Leone. It has been a very exciting, warm, and joyful event.” Osinbajo arrived at the Lungi International Airport in Freetown on Tuesday morning where he was received by his Sierra Leonean counterpart, Dr. Mohamed Jalloh. In a show of thanks, President Bio decorated Osinbajo and the other dignitaries with Sierra Leone’s insignia of honour and dressy tokens. He said Nigeria and the other countries have supported Sierra Leone, especially in the heat of its gory civil war which lasted 11 years. Since the early 1960s, Nigeria and Sierra Leone have shared a genial relationship that only a few countries do. As an active member of the ECOWAS, Nigeria, between 1991 and 2002, led the ECOMOG military intervention that preserved Sierra Leone’s fragile democracy at the time. Today, the two countries continue to join forces on socio-economic, technical, and security fronts, including the recent collaboration on road safety. Osinbajo has since returned to Abuja on Tuesday night.