The Evangelical Church Winning All, on Friday, expressed deep sadness and disappointment over what it described as the failure of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), to secure the release of Leah Sharibu and others in Boko Haram captivity, despite several promises to rescue them. ECWA also sought the implementation of the 2014 National Conference report, saying it would address the various agitations for secession and other problems facing the country. The church stated this on Friday in a communiqué after its 68th General Council Meeting held at the church’s headquarters in Jos, Plateau State. The meeting had in attendance the church’s leaders across the country, as well as from the Republic of Chad and the United States. Sharibu, a member of ECWA, was among the schoolgirls kidnapped by Boko Haram in Dapchi, Yobe State in February 2018. While others have been released, she remains in captivity for reportedly refusing to convert to Islam. She was 14 at the time of her kidnapping. ECWA President, Rev Stephen Panya, who read the communiqué, said, “The council expresses grave apprehension that despite all the assurances by the Federal Government to secure our prisoners of conscience – such as Leah Sharibu, Grace Lukas, Alice Loksha, Lilian Gyang, Pastor Polycarp Zongo, the remaining Chibok schoolgirls – these abductees and many others continue to remain in captivity. The council reiterates its call on the government to do more to produce tangible results. “The council also observed with worry the massive and forceful takeover of ungoverned spaces by criminals and non-state actors, who obviously seem to be in control in the country vis-à-vis the seeming inability of the government to decisively deal with the menace as well as protect the citizenry from these prowling merchants of death. “More specifically, the council notes the unabated attacks on Christian communities in the Middle Belt, the North, and other parts of the country and the needless destruction of lives and property by Fulani jihadist militia and Boko Haram. The council cautions the government against continuous politicisation of security matters.” Panya also asked the government to ensure the safe return and resettlement of all internally displaced persons to their homes. He further said the church council noted with disquiet the spontaneous agitations for restructuring and secession, saying the calls were borne out of systemic injustice. “We, therefore, call for the implementation of the resolutions of the 2014 National Conference. The non-implementation of these resolutions that were hailed as providing the much-needed remedies for the fault lines in our faltering union nearly a decade after is allowing a bad situation to worsen, thereby causing more harm than whatever good the non-implementation was supposed to serve,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com