The Standards Organisation of Nigeria has announced plans to boost the nation’s manufacturing industry with its newly accredited laboratories. The SON said on Thursday that it was also targeting an increased level of export of locally made goods to the international market. The Director-General, SON, Mallam Farouk Salim, said this during the unveiling of the laboratories accredited by the American Association for Laboratory Accreditation in Ogba, Lagos. He said manufacturers would be encouraged to produce more, adding that products certified and tested in the accredited laboratories would gain acceptance anywhere in the world. He said many manufacturers had said that their products were rejected even by local companies because their products were not certified. “But now, that excuse is out of the way. With the certification, it is easy for them to export to anywhere in the world because an accredited laboratory means that whatever we say is good is good. It gives the nation credibility; it gives our manufacturers credibility.” Salim said the accredited laboratories would help to save foreign exchange as manufacturers ‘do not have to go to neighbouring countries to get their products certified anymore’. He said, “We are allowed to export to the United States; now, with the accreditation showing that our products are up to standard, it means it would be easier for exporters to export to America and every other country in the world. So, it makes things easier because there is legitimacy and authentication. “The consumers abroad will have the confidence to buy goods coming from Nigeria because the certification shows that the goods have been tested and verified okay for consumption.” According to him, there are plans to establish more laboratories in the country in a bid to ensure that goods can be tested anywhere in the country. The SON boss urged stakeholders in the industry to contribute their quota towards its quest to build more world-class laboratories in the country. “Our main plan is that in every state, there should be a minimum of some laboratory activity that can be done because we do not want people travelling from one state to another because of testing,” Salim said.