Soldiers on Sunday allegedly shot and killed a first year student of the Imo State University, Owerri, Divine Nwaneri. Our correspondent learnt on Monday, that Nwaneri was shot dead by the soldiers who were keeping guard at the Government House front gate in Owerri. The President of Student Union Government of IMSU, Arinze Oguike, who spoke to our correspondent, disclosed that the students were saddened by the way the military allegedly killed the undergraduate. Our correspondent’s investigation revealed that Nwaneri, a native of Umukam in Obollo community in the Isiala Mbano council of the state, was born on June 12, 1997. She was a first year student of Soil Science and Biotechnology in the Facility of Agriculture in IMSU. The 24- year- old was shot dead by the soldiers, while riding in Lexus IS 250 with number plate, Lagos KSF 407 GT, with her friends. A source in the university told our correspondent that the she was being driven around 10pm when the soldiers opened fire on the car and shot her and the male driver. They were rushed to the Federal Medical Center, Owerri, where the IMSU undergraduate was confirmed dead, while the driver survived. The SUG president, Arinze Oguike, told our correspondent that his administration had made a formal request to Chancellor of the university, Prof Peter Aka, demanding justice for the slain undergraduate. The student leader said, “We have made a formal demand to VC that the soldiers who killed our student be identified and arrested. We have also asked that the medical personnel on duty be arrested for professional negligence. When contacted, the IMSU Public Relations Officer, Ralph Obinjoku, said the university community was saddened by the Lost of the undergraduate. When contacted, the police spokesperson in the state, Orlando Ikeokwu, said he had not been briefed, officially. The Army Public Relations Officer of 34 artillery brigade, Obinze, Owerri, Capitan Babatunde Zubairu, said he had not been communicated. As of the time of filing this report, the vehicle in which the undergraduate was killed was still parked in front of the state Government House. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com