The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), urged the United States to reconsider relocating the US Africa Command (AFRICOM) from Stuttgart, Germany, to Africa. Buhari made the plea in a virtual meeting with the U.S. Secretary of State, Anthony Blinken, on Tuesday. Since Buhari made the appeal, many Nigerians have expressed different views over the president’s demand. Here are some things you should know about AFRICOM – U.S. Africa Command, with partners, counters transnational threats and malign actors, is created to strengthen security forces and respond to crises in order to advance U.S. national interests and promote regional security, stability, and prosperity. – U.S. Africa Command, headquartered in Stuttgart, Germany, is one of 11 U.S. Department of Defense combatant commands, each with a geographic or functional mission that provides command and control of military forces in peace and war. – AFRICOM employs the broad-reaching diplomacy, development, and defense approach to foster interagency efforts and help negate the drivers of conflict and extremism in Africa. – A full-spectrum combatant command, AFRICOM is responsible for all U.S. Department of Defense operations, exercises, and security cooperation on the African continent, its island nations, and surrounding waters. – The area of responsibility consists of 53 African states, more than 800 ethnic groups, over 1,000 languages, vast natural resources, a landmass of 11.2 million square miles (three-and-a-half times the size of the U.S.), and nearly 19,000 miles of coastland. – AFRICOM began initial operations October 1, 2007, and became fully operational October 1, 2008. – US Africa Command has approximately 2,000 assigned personnel, including military, U.S. federal civilian employees, and U.S. contractor employees. – The command also has liaison officers at key African posts, including the African Union, the Economic Community of West African States, and the Kofi Annan International Peacekeeping and Training Centre in Ghana.