Wife of Ekiti State Governor, Mrs Bisi Fayemi, has described the hostile political climate in Nigeria as a major challenge working against the possibility of having a female president. Fayemi, who spoke on Thursday evening during the first reading of her latest book, ‘Where Is Your Wrapper?’ organised by Above Whispers Media Foundation in collaboration with the Association of Nigerian Authors to mark the 2021 World Book Day, said a Nigerian woman has all it takes to be the country’s president in view of their vast resources. She said, “Nigeria is ripe for a female presidency, but we won’t have one anytime soon because those who are controlling power and are in leadership positions have a way of keeping the female gender away from power. Despite this treatment, we are proud that we have women like Prof Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, who is the Director General of the World Trade Organisation, and others who are faces of respect to women. “So, technically, we are ready for it. We have the people with exposure and education, but we have to build a system that will allow them to realise their full potential within the political space.” The wife of the governor said feminism was gradually gaining traction in Nigeria owing to the widespread belief that women should have rights, should not be battered, should have education, should be economically self-dependent and should be protected. “We must confront those issues that tend to undermine women. Women are entitled to live decent lives and that is why the government of Governor Kayode Fayemi is displaying that political will to support us to defend female gender against abuses,” she added. The governor’s wife urged ANA and writers generally to encourage and mentor young people into writing, saying creative writing in most cases started at a tender age through parents’ conscious efforts on children. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com