The Registrar of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board, Prof. Is’haq Oloyede, has said some parents usually aide candidates to cheat during the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examinations. Oloyede, while monitoring the 2021 UTME registration in Lagos on Wednesday, said many parents did not allow the candidates to take the exam based on their abilities. He added, “In the bid to make sure that their children pass the exam, parents engage in one form of examination malpractice or another.” He, however, said the CBT centres conducting the registration were orderly because parents were not allowed to come there, adding that they would have jumped the queue by paying their way through. Oloyede revealed that the introduction of National Identification Numbers as means of registration would help in reducing examination malpractices, especially impersonation. “With the NIN, we can now identify who is taking our exam, it will reduce impersonation. I have not seen any hitch in registration; what I have seen is a product of indiscipline, particularly on part of parents not allowing candidates to breathe, insisting on choosing the course for them. Parents are difficult to manage when it comes to enforcement of rules and we have seen parents pay someone to sit exam for their children.” While reacting to the complaints of some parents who had not received their ward’s UTME codes on their phone, Oloyede said, “Parents using post-paid phones cannot get the registration done appropriately. Just put N50 on the post-paid phone and you’ll get the code.” Oloyede said the body had created rogue centres to apprehend and disqualify cheating candidates. He said, “We have seen parents pay someone to take exam for their children. To catch a rogue you may need to pretend that you are one too. “We opened the rogue centres where we asked them to pay N15,000 if they want their marks to be upgraded. Once you submit your number, we will collect your N15,000 and disqualify you.” Oloyede also condemned schools who were charging above N4,700 for the purchase and registration fee of UTME. He said, “JAMB is collecting N3,500, but most of these schools charge more. We have informed the ministry. I will write again to the Federal Ministry of Education to sanction these schools. “The president has already reduced the cost of UTME to N3500, N500 for the book and N700 for registration at CBT centres.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com