Police on Friday killed a bandit and rescued a kidnapped victim after a shootout with the hoodlums who stormed Kwana-Kodo village, Kankara Local Government Area of Katsina State. The police also recovered 20 cows and 100 sheep from the bandits in another operation on Thursday. It was learnt that the bandits attacked Kwana-Kono village around 2.30am on Friday during which they kidnapped one Alhaji Sanusi Adamu. The Divisional Police Officer, Kankara, reportedly led the ‘Operation Puff Adder’ men and vigilantes in the area to confront the bandits, leading to a gun duel. The bandit was killed in the process and a victim rescued. The spokesman for the Katsina State Police Command, SP Gambo Isah, confirmed the development. He said, “Today, April 23, 2021 around 2.30am, a distress call was received that bandits in their numbers, riding on motorbikes and shooting continuously, attacked Kwana-Kodo village, and kidnapped one Alhaji Sanusi Adamu, aged 65 years. “Consequently, DPO Kankara Division led “Operation Puff Adder” and a vigilante group to their possible exit route into the forest and blocked it.  Fortunately, the bandits met their waterloo when they passed through the police ambush point and the team engaged the hoodlums in a gun duel, killed one of the bandits and rescued the victim. “The corpse of the killed bandit and a motorcycle were recovered. It is believed that many of the bandits escaped with gunshot wounds as investigation is ongoing.” Meanwhile, the police also repelled attacks by bandits at Abadau village in the Batsari Local Government Area of the state on Thursday during which they recovered many rustled domestic animals. Isah explained ‘’On April 22, a distress call was received that bandits numbering 15, armed with AK-47 rifles, attacked Abadau village and rustled domestic animals. Subsequently, DPO Batsari led operations ‘Puff Adder’ and ‘Sharan-Daji’ to Zamfarawa village. “The hoodlums fled the scene abandoning the rustled animals. Twenty cows and 100 sheep were recovered. Investigation is ongoing.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com