The Delta State Police Command has arrested three kidnappers at the point of collecting ransom and rescued the victim at Nigercat Ekpan in the Uvwie Local Government Area of the state. The acting Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Bright Edafe, stated this on Monday. READ ALSO: Troops kill Imo undergraduate, shoot another He stated, “A complaint was received by DPO, ‘A’ Division, Warri, on April 23 that one Peter Okologo, 26, was kidnapped. “It was gathered that 25-year-old Ejiro John of Ogbori community in Warri led a group of armed men, some of who were alleged to be in military uniform and armed with guns and other weapons. “They stormed the house and whisked away Peter Okologo after firing gunshots and took him to an unknown destination. “On the strength of the report, the DPO, ‘A’ Division, Warri, mobilised the rapid respond team from the division and swung into action immediately and arrested another suspect, one kingsley Omagbemi, 25.” The PPRO added that both suspects led the kidnappers to the victim’s house, where he was kidnapped. He said after thorough investigation and interrogation, the two suspects led the police team to Sapele, where one David Mojo, 32, was arrested at the kidnappers’ den. Edafe added that Mojo had already demanded the sum of N1m and was arrested as he came out to collect the ransom, while the victim was rescued. He noted that one of the kidnappers, simply identified as Alason, escaped with a black Toyota Camry with unknown number plate, adding that efforts were on to arrest the other fleeing members of the gang. Police personnel attached to the Ajaokuta Division have rescued a kidnap victim and recovered two AK-47 rifles with 29 rounds of live ammunition. This was disclosed on Monday by the Public Relations Officer of the Kogi State Police Command, DSP William Ayah, in a statement. He said the police personnel acted on a report received around 3.30am on Sunday that four armed men stopped a vehicle at the PYN junction, Ajaokuta, and abducted a man and led him into the bush. The statement read in part, “Consequent upon the report, the Divisional Police Officer, CSP Shola Night, led a team of officers to the scene and trailed the hoodlums to the bush, stormed their hideout and engaged them in a gun duel, which led the hoodlums to flee with bullet wounds, while the victim was rescued unhurt and two AK-47 rifles with 29 rounds of ammunition were recovered. “The Commissioner of Police, Kogi State Command, Ede Ayuba Ekpeji, calls on members of the public to sharpens their power of observation and be on the lookout for anybody seen with bullet wounds and report to the nearest police station or other security agents. “He assures the law-abiding people of the state that the renewed commitment of the Kogi State Police Command to sustain the tempo of the fight against criminality in the state and guarantee the protection of lives and property remain unequivocal and unwavering.”     ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com