A couple of days back, I bought a flight ticket to Abuja from Arik Air website. Given common opinion that the first flight out of anywhere is your best bet of flying on schedule, I chose the 6:45am flight that was listed as the first service out of Lagos on the particular day and settled it in my mind that my trip to a Abuja was a done deal. I thereafter called the subject of my trip and arranged to have an early morning meeting after which I planned to settle a few other things in the Federal Capital Territory. Morning of the flight, I left my home before 5am and headed to the Domestic Wing of the Murtala Muhammed Airport to board the flight to Abuja. As I hoped, I arrived the airport early enough and could only have had one or two people ahead of me at the time I did. I  walked confidently to the counter, said a warm good morning to the airline’s personnel on the duty and handed over my identification card expecting her to hand over a boarding card to me in a matter of minutes. On the contrary, the lady who looked up at me and asked: “What flight are you booked on?” I found it to be an awkward question since I was sure the computer before her should reflect it; nevertheless, I answered, an obvious look of bewilderment on my face, that it was the 6:45am flight. “Oh, and you didn’t get any text?”, she fired back “No, I didn’t”. “Oh, wow, that flight has been cancelled.” For a moment, the import of what she just said was lost on me. Neither of us said anything for a while and then, I found my voice and I asked: “So, if I got a text, what would it have told me?” “That the flight had been cancelled.” “And then, what?”  I asked this because I was confused as to the essence of a text that told me my flight had been cancelled without providing an alternative. If a 6:45am service was no longer going to operate for any reason, in addition to informing the passenger, the airline should apologise for the inconvenience and then provide an alternative. I mean, I didn’t buy this ticket on credit, so the next information I wanted to hear was something indicating that passengers on the cancelled flight have been transferred unto the 7am flight. I would imagine that anyone who chooses an early morning flight, with all the conceivable inconveniences attending it, must have a reason deserving of respect by all parties concerned, not the least the one who has been paid! The lady broke into my thought: “Do you mind if we put you on the 11am flight?” Now suppressing my anger, I began to wonder whether these guys understand the essence of time at all! Although this issue was eventually admirably resolved when the Arik personnel put me and one or two more persons on the 7am flight, it got me thinking about how much Nigerian airlines take people for granted with examples much worse than what I experienced that Tuesday morning. Wednesday last week, a video where a Dana Air employee was subjected to physical assault by some passengers went viral. According to the Instagram user who posted the video, the airline had rescheduled a 4:10pm flight to 5:40pm. While passengers were waiting to board at 5:40pm, the airline worker came to announce another rescheduling for 7pm and that infuriated their listeners. Violence was only avoided at that scene because the airline staffer could sprint out of the presence of the angry travellers. The day after, Thursday, April 15, 2021, a friend of mine had a worse experience in the hands of the same Dana Air! Their flight, originally scheduled for 4:40pm was moved to 7:40, then 8:10, later to 8:40, and then 9:40pm. They were called to board another flight that eventually brought them to Lagos after departing Abuja just before 10pm, almost six hours after the passenger planned to travel. What is worse is the way these airlines deceive their passengers. On most occasions, they let passengers check in before announcing the delay. At this point, passengers are mostly handicapped. Money paid, luggage checked -they would have no choice than to wait until the airline is ready to fly, no matter how late! So, what are the regulators doing? There could be excuses that passengers do not lodge complaints as they should in instances like this. But does the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority, which should sanction airlines for infractions like this, also have a mechanism to detect these corporate misdemeanours? What do they do when mistreatments of Nigerians by airlines go viral like that one last week? The failure of the agency to mete out appropriate sanctions in the circumstance is harmful in at least two ways: The first is that it encourages the airlines to continue to disrespect Nigerians who are in fact the same customers on whose account their business exists. As it stands with airlines in Nigeria, there is an embarrassing reversal of the very commonly held business axiom that the “customer is king.” It is the opposite with Nigerian airlines who treat their customers shabbily and get away with it. Given the current level of insecurity in the country, air travel has become the safest and most effective way for businesspeople to travel across the country and accomplish their mission; and respect for the time and the dignity of people are important components of this. The second thing is that the situation deepens the perception of Nigeria as a country where there are no consequences for bad behaviour and rubs off on the country’s reputation. A corollary to this is that investors would become wary of doing business in the country. A country where anything goes, where regulators are timid about enforcing the laws for which they were set up even when these laws are only obeyed in breach, is unhealthy for the development of the country. But Nigerians must themselves speak up against this tyranny. This is beyond getting physical with airline staff, who are themselves helpless but testing the NCAA regulations and its provisions on consumer rights on these delays or even going to court if need be. Passengers who have firsthand experiences of treatments like this, are encouraged to file complaints with the NCAA and pursue the same unto logical conclusions as a deterrent for the reign of impunity currently going on. Of course, it is common knowledge that the aviation industry in the country is undercapitalised and that a lot of these airlines are groaning under the strains of the economy, yet this is no excuse for the kind of disrespect and humiliation Nigerians suffer in their hands. Airlines should learn to plan diligently and collaborate as much as possible if that is what it would take to make the industry more efficient and reliable. That industry tells a lot of the society it operates and everyone who has a role to play in making things better organised should know this. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com