The 2021 Oscars is scheduled to take place on Sunday, April 25, and would feature an all-star cast of presenters.
The first round of presenters, which were announced on April 12, are, in alphabetical order: Angela Bassett, Halle Berry, Bong Joon Ho, Don Cheadle, Bryan Cranston, Laura Dern, Harrison Ford, Regina King, Marlee Matlin, Rita Moreno, Joaquin Phoenix, Brad Pitt, Reese Witherspoon, Renée Zellweger and Zendaya. Additional presenter announcements are expected between now and Sunday. This year, the telecast will not have a traditional audience and there will be no acceptance speeches made on Zoom as the producers pressed the nominees to attend in person, with appropriate safety precautions. There would also be a hub for nominees in London, and, as of late last week, about a dozen remote satellite hook-ups. Some material would be pre-taped as every nominee spent 45 minutes with the producers. In addition, instead of the Dolby Theatre, which is the Academy Awards’ usual home, the show would be held at Union Station ― the airy, Art Deco-Mission Revival railway hub in downtown Los Angeles, abc7.com reports. In a shift from years past, the nominations for the best original song would be performed during the Oscars pre-show this year, not during the telecast itself. Topping nominations for the 93rd Academy Awards with 10 nominations is David Fincher’s ‘Mank’ ― a black-and-white period drama about Herman Mankiewicz, who was the screenwriter of ‘Citizen Kane’. The movie got nominations for best picture, best director, acting nods for Gary Oldman and Amanda Seyfried, and a host of others for its lavish craft. Nominations were spread among a wide variety of contenders. The six other films, which also scored six nods and nominated for best picture were Judas and the Black Messiah, Nomadland, Minari, Sound of Metal, The Trial of the Chicago 7 and The Father. Also nominated for best picture was Emerald Fennell’s ‘Promising Young Woman’. History was made in the best director category as only five women have ever been nominated. However, for the first time, two were nominated this year. Chloé Zhao got a nod for her elegiac road-trip drama ‘Nomadland’, alongside first-time feature filmmaker, Emerald Fennell, for her pitch-black #MeToo revenge comedy. For performers, it is the most diverse group of nominees ever. Nine of the 20 acting nominees are people of colour, including a posthumous best-actor nomination for Chadwick Boseman (Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom). Others were Riz Ahmed (Sound of Metal), Steven Yeun (Minari), Viola Davis (Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom) and Andra Day (The People vs. Billie Holiday). Daniel Kaluuya and Lakeith Stanfield (Judas and the Black Messiah), Leslie Odom Jr. (One Night in Miami) and Yuh-Jung Youn (Minari) got supporting nominations. The live Oscar coverage begins on Sunday morning and would run throughout the day.