Members of the Edo State chapter of the Traders’ Welfare Union of Nigeria, on Thursday, protested the hike in the prices of fishes, saying it had become difficult for them to deal in the product. The union also called on Governor Godwin Obaseki and other relevant stakeholders to intervene in what it described as persistent increment in the prices of fishes by owners of cold rooms in the state, who sell on wholesale basis. The fish sellers, mostly women, who staged a peaceful protest on major streets, including at the secretariat of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, Edo State Council, said a carton of fish that they used to buy for N7,000 had skyrocketed to N37,000, stressing that this had made fish to be out of reach for the common man. The traders, who were led by the President, Traders’ Welfare Union of Nigeria, Rufus Okukpe, said due to the incessant increase in prices of fishes, they had stopped selling the commodity at the moment, vowing not to return to the market until the government intervened in the matter. Okukpe stated, “The prices of fishes in our various markets in Edo State have continued to increase on a daily basis such that a carton of fish that we used to buy for N7,000- has skyrocketed to N37,000. This has made the prices of fishes to be way out of the reach of the common man and woman in the state. “At the moment, we the fish sellers have refused to sell fish for now in our markets in Benin City until the Edo State Government intervenes in the matter. “We the fish sellers in Edo State markets humbly appeal to the Edo State Government and every other relevant stakeholders to step into this matter as the ordinary man and woman in Edo can no longer buy fish as a result of the high prices caused by the evil fish union in our markets.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com