The Nigeria Economic Summit Group and the Abuja Chamber of Commerce and Industry have suggested measures that would help address the economic difficulties currently faced by Nigeria and Nigerians. Recently, the Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, declared that the country’s revenues had nosedived and that Nigeria was in a difficult period. In their separate views on how to manage the current situation, the NESG and ACCI explained that it was possible for Nigeria to come out from the current tough economic situation through the implementation of the right policies. The NESG in its latest report containing recommendations from its 26th Nigeria Economic Summit on how to revamp the economy stated that the COVID-19 pandemic had accelerated the need to urgently retool the country’s economic policy. It said this would be to capitalise on the opportunities inherent in the changing dynamics of the local, regional and global economic landscape so that no Nigerian would be left behind and that the world would not leave Nigeria behind. “This requires bold structural reforms to create the necessary conditions for markets to function and a commitment to sustain them,” the group said. It added that governments at all levels should unlock more private sector participation by removing sectoral rigidities that inhibit the potential of businesses to drive economic growth. The group said the government must work to achieve and maintain macroeconomic stability that would ensure economic growth that outpaces population growth, creates jobs, stabilises inflation, reduces poverty and expands external balance of payments. It said government should unify foreign exchange rates into single and market-driven window, improve coordination of fiscal, monetary and structural policies and aggressively attract Foreign Direct Investment. It also asked the government to deregulate oil sector by passing the Petroleum Industry Bill, tighten fiscal coordination and intensify public investments in social sectors and encourage more private participation in the economy. Also speaking on the matter, the President, ACCI, Dr Al-Mujtaba Abubakar, said the Nigerian government must adopt multiple policy actions and muster the political will to arrest the revenue crisis. He noted that the solution did not rest in revenue sourcing alone, as it also had to do with addressing the huge cost of governance which was becoming unsustainable. Abubakar said, “First, we suggest blocking of revenue leakages across government ministries, departments, and agencies through strong institutional framework and processes. “Secondly, the government should demonstrate courage and reduce the cost of governance.” He said there was a need for urgent tax reforms, as the ACCI recommended that government should work with stakeholders to widen the tax base and harmonise the tax rates. “We are convinced that getting more Nigerians within the tax bracket is more fiscally acceptable than present multiple taxations, which has become an albatross to many businesses,” he stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com