A suspected notorious major supplier of illicit drugs in Abia State, Chibuike Apollos, was on Wednesday arrested during an early morning raid on his hideout at Mbausi in the Isialangwa North Local Government Area of the state. The spokesman for the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, Femi Babafemi, said in a statement that Apollos had been on the wanted list of the Abia State Command of the agency since February following the arrest of one Chima Ukeleonu, the suspect behind the viral video in January showing a young man hawking illicit drugs on the street. READ ALSO: We can’t end terrorism without weapons, COAS tells Senate “As a result, 38-year-old Apolos was put on the wanted list. Following his arrest in the early hours of Wednesday, the Abia State Government has already marked his house that serves as his hideout for demolition,” Babafemi stated. The Commander, NDLEA, Abia State Command, Bamidele Akingbade, said, “The command had been on his trail since February this year. Fortunately, we got a tip-off that he just received some quantities of cannabis from Edo State. Notwithstanding the tense security situation in the South-East, especially Abia state, the command still embarked on the operation, which culminated in the arrest of one Chibuike Apolos with 10 bags of cannabis weighing 100kg, 1.6 grams of cocaine, one gram of heroin and five grams of methamphetamine. “The suspect is one of the major suppliers of illicit drugs in Abia State, especially in the Isialangwa communities. The state governor has been notified and the suspect’s building has been marked for demolition.” Meanwhile, the Taraba State Command of the agency has arrested 61-year-old Lawan Gambo Umar for trafficking 58.50kg of cannabis sativa. The state Commander of the NDLEA, Suleiman Ajadi, said, “The suspect was taking the skunk concealed inside sacks of beans chaff used to feed animals to Fune in Yobe State when our men intercepted him.” The Chairman/Chief Executive of the NDLEA, Brig. Gen. Buba Marwa (retd.), commended the Abia and Taraba commands of the agency for the seizures and arrests, and urged them to sustain the current tempo of offensive action to rid the country of illicit substances. “No doubt, the volume that has been seized in these two operations is less the quantum meant for our towns and communities. I, therefore, urge our officers and men across all the commands all over the country to continue to smoke out all the elements involved in this criminal trade of their hiding places,” Marwa was quoted as saying. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com