Microsoft and delivery service DHL led a list of the 10 most-imitated brands in global phishing attempts in the first quarter of 2021, according to findings by cybersecurity research firm Check Point Research. Cybercriminals imitated Microsoft in 39 per cent of all global brand phishing attempts, DHL in 18 per cent, Google in nine per cent, Roblox in six per cent, Amazon in five per cent, Wells Fargo in four per cent, Chase in two per cent, LinkedIn in two per cent, Apple in two per cent and Dropbox in two per cent. Check Point data research manager, Omer Dembinsky, said criminals increased their attempts in Q1 2021 to steal peoples’ personal data by impersonating leading brands. He added that leading banks including Wells Fargo and Chase “have now become prime resources for cyber criminals to lure people into brand phishing.” One example of a DHL phishing email Check Point highlighted appeared as though it was coming from the email address “support@dhl.com” under the subject line “DHL Import Clearance – Consignment : <number>”. The body of the email asked users to download a malicious file titled “DHL-IVN.87463.rar.” “Cyber criminals are looking to capitalize on our activities that involve banks such as filing taxes, fielding stimulus checks and ordering home deliveries,” Dembinsky said. Check Point encouraged users to be cautious when divulging personal data and credentials to business applications. It also advised users to think twice before opening email attachments or links, especially ones that claim to be from companies, such as Microsoft or DHL, that were the most likely to be impersonated. “Review email signatures; be wary of threatening language in a subject line, such as “account has been suspended” or “urgent payment request”; and share as little personal information as possible via email,” it said. The cybersecurity firm recommended users to check for misspellings in emails and to not click on attachments that may contain malware. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com