The former military governor of the Old Western State and former Minister of Police Affairs, Major-General David Jemibewon (retd), and other retired military officers of Kogi extraction have lent their support to the presidential ambition of Governor Yahaya Bello. The Kogi indigenes disclosed this on Friday when they paid the governor a courtesy in Lokoja. They are part of the Kogi West Council of Elders, which had continuously urged the governor to sustain his desire to occupy the nation’s top office come 2023. The council of elders specifically commended the governor for the establishment of the Alape Staple Crops Processing Zone, while appealing for a speedy completion of the project. Speaking on behalf of the council, General AB Momoh expressed admiration for the governor’s “pushing development strides” at a time the country is embroiled in and bleeding from all forms of insecurity. Momoh said, “We are not unaware of your relentless drive to push for a safe corridor for Kogi State; not perturbed by escalating insecurity in the country, you continue to push and embark on aggressive people-oriented projects across the state. “Your approach in dealing with criminal elements is commendable and we enjoin you to maintain the tempo. “We are witnesses to the many calls from different groups, associations and persons calling on Your Excellency to run for the office of president in 2023. This is not a surprise but a welcome development for us and the Kogi people as a whole.” In his response, Bello thanked the council members and commended them on their advisory role, which he said had added more value to every decision made by his administration, adding that he would continue to seek their wisdom and kind advice as his administration remained focused on the provision of the people’s critical needs. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com