Peoples Democratic Party chieftain and former Ekiti State Governor, Ayodele Fayose, on Friday, lambasted the Presidency and the Catholic Priest and Spiritual Director of Adoration Ministry, Enugu, Fr Ejike Mbaka, describing both as “blackmailers”. Fayose also said both the Presidency and the preacher don’t deserve the attention of Nigerians. “The Presidency and Father Mbaka are nothing but blackmailers and scammers. They don’t deserve the attention of Nigerians,” he tweeted. The PUNCH had earlier reported that Mbaka said God asked him to withdraw his support for the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and to prophesy against him. The fiery priest had prophesied that Buhari of the All Progressives Congress would defeat ex-President Goodluck Jonathan of the PDP and become President in 2015 and continued to support him at various times. But Mbaka made a U-turn against the Buhari government recently, saying it had failed to protect lives in the country, describing the situation as devastating. He also called for the President’s resignation. However, in a clapback, the Presidency attributed the recent outing of Mbaka to Buhari’s decision to reject a contract request allegedly made by the cleric. Presidential spokesman, Garba Shehu, said in a statement on Friday that though Mbaka supported Buhari in 2015 and 2019, the cleric “has made a complete U-turn, preposterously asking President Buhari to resign or be impeached”. “Here is the point of departure: Father Mbaka asked for a meeting and to the shock of Presidential Aides, he came accompanied by three contractors. The President graciously allowed them in, and to everyone’s surprise, Father Mbaka asked for contracts as compensation for his support. “Anyone familiar with President Buhari knows that he doesn’t break the laid down rules in dealing with contracts or any other government business for that matter. He requested the appropriate authorities to deal with the matter in accordance with laid down rules,” Shehu said.