Security agents on Thursday evening prevented an attempted jailbreak at the Kurmawa Correctional Centre in Kano metropolis. A reliable source at the prison said the incident happened when some prisoners complained bitterly about the poor quality of food they are served for iftar(breaking of fast) even though a philanthropist, Alhajii Abdussamad Rabiu, had provided adequate food items to cater for the Ramadan needs of the prisoners at the facility. “This reason irked the prisoners, especially those at the condemned site, who attempted to break out and run away,” the source said. READ ALSO: MASSOB rejects asylum offer, says UK plotting to stop Biafra It was gathered that the armed personnel at the facility had to shoot in the air to scare the prisoners who had caused the uproar in the prison yard. When contacted, the Public Relations Officer of the Kano State Correctional Centre, DSC Musbahu Lawal Kofar Nasarawa, confirmed the incident. “Yes, there was an attempt by some condemned prisoners to cause pandemonium in the prison. However, the concerted effort of the prison officials prevented their attempt. ‘’We have about 150 inmates on death row and some of them were caught with more than 20 mobile phones (Andriod inclusive), marijuana and other illicit drugs,” he said. READ ALSO: How CCTV facilitated Nollywood actor, Baba Ijesha’s arrest for defiling minor He, however, explained that the protest was not about lack of food supply or poor quality of the food but rather it was caused by an attempt by the prison officials to collect illicit items found with the prisoners. “The illicit items found were suspected to have been imported into the facility either by some staff of the facility or people who brought food items. He confirmed that normalcy had since been restored and all prisoners are back in their confinement. He said the correctional facility Controller, Mr Suleiman Suleiman has constituted a committee to find how the illegal items got into the facility so as to take necessary action to prevent a recurrence. Lawal said the committee had been mandated to conduct a thorough investigation with a view to finding out those behind taking the illegal items into the facility. READ ALSO: No amount of Buhari’s inducement will stop Biafra, IPOB boasts