Former President Olusegun Obasanjo, Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State, Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun  and Senator Ishaku Abbo (Adamawa North), among other dignitaries on Wednesday attended the farewell service for the retiring President of Baptist Convention, Nigeria and the President, Christian Association of Nigeria, Dr Samson Ayokunle. The event was also the 108th Nigeria Baptist Convention held at the Baptist International Conference Centre, Lufuwape town, Ogun State along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. Abiodun  at the event said he might end up as a pastor after serving eight years in office as governor. The governor said he mention such because he loved reading, studying and sharing the words of God. He said, “I may end up on the pulpit after I have served as governor for eight years.” Abiodun noted that the theme of the convention, ‘Moving Forward: Finishing the race with Joy,’ was a call on Nigerians and the entire humanity to do things with the fear of God in their hearts. He, therefore, charged Nigerians not to lose hope, stressing that “all we need is the fear of God in conducting our affairs.” He said, “We all need to treat our fellow human beings with love and even take care of our environment with care. If we do, we will live a more peaceful and prosperous life.” Abiodun congratulated Ayokunle for a successful tenure as the President of the Nigeria Baptist Convention after 10 years, noting that his roles as the current CAN president had strengthened the unity among the Christians in the country. On his part, former President Olusegun Obasanjo commended Ayokunle for serving meritoriously in his capacity as a leader in the Baptist Church. Obasanjo, who expressed optimism that Nigeria would survive various challenges confronting it presently, prayed that God would give the retiree new energy to continue the work of God. Also speaking, Makinde hailed Ayokunle for his tenacity in carrying out the duties of his office and urged him to continue to lead prayers for Nigeria and the leaders. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com