Two years ago when Chisom suddenly developed dark spots all over her body, the initial thought of her mother, Mrs. Ezinne Oliver, was that she had an allergic reaction to something. She went to the chemist, bought some medication, and treated her at home. Although the spot cleared up, not quite long afterwards, Ezinne observed that Chisom’s legs were getting swollen. Ezinne, who had been widowed, took Chisom to the General Hospital in Sango, Ogun State where they live. After some tests and scans, she was diagnosed with XMA nephrotic syndrome – a condition that causes the kidneys to leak large amounts of protein into the urine. This often leads to a range of problems, including swelling of body tissues. “After the diagnosis in 2019, we were referred to LASUTH and we have been coming for treatment regularly since then. “However, in January this year, we started seeing the symptoms of the nephrotic syndrome again and I initially thought it was just a minor relapse but I never knew that it has gradually damaged Chisom’s kidneys. “We brought her back to the hospital and after some scans and tests, they said her two kidneys are no more functioning the way they should,” Mrs. EzinneOliver said. What is nephrotic syndrome? Speaking with PUNCH Healthwise, Consultant Nephrologist at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Dr. Wale Bello, said nephrotic syndrome is one of the causes of kidney damage. “It is one of the ways injury to the kidneys can manifest. When a nephrotic syndrome is not properly treated, it can ultimately cause kidney failure.So, what I am saying is that nephrotic syndrome can progress to kidney failure. “Therefore, anyone diagnosed with the condition should be properly evaluated and treated to prevent it from damaging the kidney,” Dr. Bello said. According to WebMD – an online health publication, nephrotic syndrome isn’t a disease. It’s a group of symptoms that can appear if the kidneys aren’t working well. WebMD stated further that when the kidneys are not working well, too much protein slips through the filters into the urine. The result is nephrotic syndrome. Nephrotic syndrome can affect both adults and children. It is, however, treatable, it said. “Doctors still don’t know why this condition stops the kidneys from working properly. However, some potential causes of the disease include infections from viruses, allergic reactions, taking certain medications, and using non-steroidal anti-inflammatorydrugs,” WebMD added. 13 dialysis sessions and still counting According to Mrs. Oliver, 12-year-old Chisom who passed her common entrance examination and was to resume in secondary school has been on admission since January as her condition has worsened. “She passed the common entrance examination, but she cannot go to secondary school.Since January, she has been undergoing dialysis. She has already done over 13 sessions of dialysis. It has been tough. “She is also taking some drugs and injections and undergoing further tests.I still don’t know the cause of this condition.We don’t have a record of anybody in the family with thecondition. “Chisom is my second child. She has an older sister and two other younger sisters.It has really been difficult coping with this treatment because it is expensive. In fact, we have been surviving largely through help from people and the grace of God. The need for kidney transplant “The doctor has already told us that we have to find a way to do a kidney transplant to save her.The cost implication obtained from the hospital that can carry out the procedure, Zenith Medical and Kidney Centre, Abuja, is N10.5 million. “That amount is difficult for me to raise. I am a petty trader. Where will I get that money?The N10.5m includes the cost of conducting tests on her and the donor as well as for post-operative care. My bank account details are: Nnadiekwe Joy Ezinne, Fidelity Bank, 6018675620,” she said. To continue reading this story and more, please click here Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com