Nigeria is fast becoming one of Africa’s leading foreign exchange markets with the volume of trades and interest increasing substantially over the last two years. Overall, the forex market is the largest and most liquid in the world with a value exceeding $1.9 quadrillion. For those that don’t know, that’s more than two and a half times the global GDP. The most commonly traded pairs are EUR/USD, USD/JPY, and GBP/USD. Even in Nigeria, the USD remains the most common currency to trade with, accounting for up to 90 per cent of all activity. What is forex trading? Forex trading is an activity whereby individuals with an interest in the currency, exchange different currencies at different times to make a profit. Typically, they make an account to access the market via a site such as Infinox FX trading and then decide which currencies to trade. These decisions are usually taken based on financial and economic news, past performance, and predictions made by financial experts. Trends in forex Research has found that Nigerian traders prefer to trade on the go via mobile apps. It was also noted that over the last 12 months, there was a 46 per cent rise in the number of female traders in the country. Another growing demographic is 25-34-year-olds who are becoming more interested in the world around them and are looking to access it via smartphones and portable devices. There is no doubt that the popularity of forex in Nigeria is linked to the fact it is one of Africa’s biggest economies with one of the largest populations. More people and more money obviously translate to more interest in trading. But Nigeria’s interest in forex started in the 1970s. Being a big producer of crude oil, when prices increased significantly, it provided a big boost to the economy. This sparked interest in trading with dollars (the currency oil is sold in). Since then, the interest has remained, but it peaked in 2020. Following the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, forex trading platforms noted a 300% increase in the number of new accounts being opened. A large chunk of these were from Africa. Some sources said that forex trading on the continent had increased by as much as 477% in just a few months. Much of this traffic is believed to have come from Nigeria. This boom has been driven by several different factors. Interest from the younger generation has led to a big increase in the number of traders, combined with people preferring to trade via mobile. Platforms offering mobile-optimized solutions or apps have then facilitated further growth by meeting customers’ needs. This combined with volatility in the markets means that there are more opportunities to profit. After following economic movement, traders are keen to try and leverage price and value fluctuations. The future While the forex market is growing quickly in Nigeria, this is part of a global trend. Technology and access to information have emancipated a new generation of traders who can trade forex on the go from their mobiles. Easy accessibility to financial information online, has also empowered them to make informed decisions on trades before they make them. We can expect to see the sector going from strength to strength both in Nigeria and beyond in the future.