A cross section of health experts have advised the government at all levels to build systems and structures that will strengthen the country’s health and economic sectors. The experts spoke at a one-week virtual conference on the pandemic organised by the Nigeria Academy of Pharmacy and the Nigerian Guild of Editors held between April 12 and 17. According to a communiqué by the NAPHARM Director of Programmes, Dr Lolu Ojo, the theme of the event was ‘COVID-19: The Lessons of this Pandemic and the Way Forward.’ The Director General of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, who was one of the speakers, expressed sadness over the loss of lives to COVID-19 and global economic impact of the health crisis. Ihekweazu was quoted as saying, “The COVID-19 pandemic has so far taken over two million lives, destroyed livelihoods of hundreds of millions, fractured societies and broken essence of ‘normal life,’ with the cost to the global economy estimated at $28tn by 2025; health, humanitarian and economic crises, unprecedented.” He added that the use of digital surveillance, training and protection of healthcare workers, strengthening risk communication by taking responsibility and establishment of the national COVID-19 research consortium will go a long way in addressing the challenges. Also, the Director General of the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control, Prof Mojisola Adeyeye, stated that COVID-19 posed an unprecedented challenge to global health, triggering the most severe economic shock since World War II. She said, “The escalation of the COVID-19 crisis into a global pandemic highlights the need for collective action across policy fronts to supplement domestic action as well as tackle such trans-boundary challenges in the short and long term. NAFDAC adopted the Business Continuity Plan, a part of an ongoing quality management system. “This ensures continuity of activities at a minimum tolerable level and within identified timelines. The imminent arrival of vaccines has created an urgent demand for a strong coordinated multi-country approach to safety monitoring.” Delivering her keynote address, Founder/CEO of JNC International Ltd, Clare Omatseye, noted that Nigeria was not prepared for COVID-19, despite what the country went through during previous epidemics such as Ebola in 2014. As a result, she said the country has been depending on vaccines from India, China, Russia and Europe, with a huge lack of adequate medical equipment. NAPHARM President, Prince Julius Adelusi-Adeluyi, said the unique collaboration between the academy, NGE and other organisations was to complement efforts of the government to mitigate the impact of the pandemic on the people. The President of the NGE, Mr Mustapha Isah, noted that journalists had an important role to play in helping citizens respond in safe, science-led ways to the pandemic, and promised more collaboration in future. The speakers at the programme included former CEO, National Orientation Agency, Prof Tonnie Iredia; President, Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria, Sam Ohuabunwa; former PSN President, Azubuike Okwor; Editor-in-Chief, LEADERSHIP Group Ltd, Mr Azubuike Ishiekwene. Others were Vice Chancellor, Prince University, Abeokuta, Prof Peace Babalola; Prof Ike Uzochukwu of Nnamdi Azikwe University, Awka; and Emir of Bungudu, Alhaji Hassan Bungudu. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com