Dignitaries from the Nigerian political space, as well as members of various civil societies on Thursday paid tribute to the late spokesman of Afenifere, Yinka Odumakin. Speaker of the House of Representatives, Mr Femi Gbajabiamila; Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu; acting leader of the Afenifere, Pa Ayo Adebanjo; were among the prominent personalities that attended the lying-in-state of the late activist at the Police College, Ikeja, Lagos. Odumakin, 54, died on April 2 in Lagos. Gbajabiamila described the late Odumakin as a man of courage and a true democrat. He said, “I came to know from the distance a man who has been through so much twist and turns of life but who in all of it stood straight. When you talk of profile in courage, I’m not sure that you can count on one hand whose name will come before Yinka Odumakin. Here lies a man of courage, a man of integrity, a true democrat, a man who stood for truth and nothing else.” Sanwo-Olu described the late Odumakin as a man who meant different things to different people. “Different people knew him along the life differently; some people will remember him as a radical student union leader at the Obafemi Awolowo University; some will remember him as a fearless upright journalist that was reporting for national newspapers; there were those who will also remember him during the fierce pro-democracy time as a strong activist, organiser and as someone that stood firm even during the military era,” Sanwo-Olu said. In the same vein, Adebanjo said it would be difficult to get a replacement for the late Odumakin in Afenifere. The Yourba leader said, “He was not a fake activist, but a true activist who believed in a good cause and true democracy. We are not gathered to mourn his age, but to celebrate what Yinka stood for.” The Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland, Aare Gani Adams, also described Odumakin as an irreplaceable great man, saying he had lost a friend in him. Human rights activist, Femi Falana, SAN, said “As a matter of fact, as a student leader, he was dismissed by the authorities of the Obafemi Awolowo University and I was dispatched to his school by my chamber, the Aka-Bashorun chambers. I was able to win the case, challenging his expulsion and the dismissal of his colleagues. He was reinstated and that was how he was able to complete his study.” The wife of the deceased, Joe-Okei Odumakin, in her tribute said she would love to go through life with Odumakin if there was reincarnation. “He is an encyclopaedia of positive activism. He was a great live wire. We spent 24 years together; comrade was very selfless. The week before going to the hospital, he told me his itinerary but the physiotherapist said his oxygen was low. But, he still went ahead with his itinerary for the Nigerian course,” she said. Other dignitaries present at the lying-in-state included  former governors Peter Obi of Anambra, Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun, Olusegun Mimiko of Ondo, Senators Opeyemi Bamiidele, and Basir Ajibola. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com