The Association of National Accountants of Nigeria has inaugurated Prof. Benjamin Osisioma as its 12th President and Chairman of Governing Council. In his inaugural speech on Saturday, Osisioma stated that the current administration would make extensive moves to improve corporate governance in ANAN and overhaul the entire administrative machinery. According to him, one of the immediate tasks of his administration will be to build additional structures and work out existing arrangements for the ANAN University and the Nigerian College of Accountancy, Jos, to co-exist. He challenged the NCA to rise to the occasion of expanding, extending and enlarging student enrolment to attain at least 10,000 per annum within the next five years. On fiscal control and fund mobilisation, Osisioma also said with the approval of the council, it would offer a hefty discount to all members who would clear subscription arrears within the next six months. He added that the administration would seek the support of council to introduce regional offices for the regular operations of the association. Osisioma said, “As a first step, Lagos shall be used as the regional office for the South-West. Additional offices will be opened in Enugu and Kano and we shall create a small administrative unit in the presidency to improve the efficiency and response time of the presidency. “Also, an advisory committee will be appointed to work with the president throughout the two-year term of this presidency to ensure sound decisions, efficient implementation and effective outcome on all policy matters.” He further stated that there was the need for an upswing for a digitised environment as one of the unintended effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com