BARELY 24 hours after his sacking by the Governing Council, the embattled former registrar of the Federal University, Oye-Ekiti, Olatunbosun Odusanya, on Thursday faulted his removal, saying they had not communicated to him. Odusanya said he learnt of his sacking through privilege information and the media. The former registrar explained that he would not be bothered if he was punished for committing an infraction or an offence and found guilty. Odusanya was sacked following the approval by the University Governing Council of the report of the Disciplinary Committee. The Council, headed by Dr. Mohammed Yahuza, had on April 20, 2021, suspended Odusanya from office to pave the way for investigation into allegations of misconduct leveled against him over irregularities in appointments between August 1 2020 and February 10 2021. But Odusanya in an interview with The PUNCH on Thursday blamed his predicament on the Vice Chancellor of FUOYE, Prof Abayomi Fasina. The sacked registrar described his removal as illegal but was however silent on whether he would challenge the decision in court. He said, “Of course, they have not communicated to me but by way of privilege, I got to know that they have terminated my appointment and they also said that this is a soft landing; if I approach the council, if I did not go to court, that they would allow me to withdraw my service. “My fear is that if this kind of thing is allowed to just go away like that, it shows that FUOYE is in serious trouble. Ideally, this is an offence I did not commit; it is not my responsibility to employ, it is my responsibility to carry out the directives of the chief executive. “So, I don’t know why they are finding me guilty on this matter because the only place where the registrar can err in this kind of thing is if you employ somebody without the approval of the Vice Chancellor; the Vice Chancellor approves all the appointments.” “If Prof. Fasina could manoeuvre his way to remove the names of registrar within 10 days, I don’t know what is likely going to be the state or future of all staff in FUOYE. Several calls and SMS to Fasina were neither answered nor replied. Earlier when contacted, Yahuza told The PUNCH that he would not want to go into speculations over the matter because he was in a fasting mood. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com