Mixta Africa presents New Town Plots, a series of serviced commercial plots created to service light industrial, assembly and warehouse & logistics organisations/bodies . The plots are surrounded by notable residential estates like the exclusive Lakowe Lakes Golf and Country Estate, Beechwood Park, Beechwood Estate and Adiva. The plots are centrally located within the Lagos New Town (LNT), a Mixta Africa development and community that has experienced immense growth over the years as a result of consistent infrastructural investments and strong value appreciation. It is the fastest-growing corridor in Lagos, covering a total of 1561 hectares of land. With over 5000 development units sold, LNT is estimated to host over 50,000 people with an array of residential homes, malls, parks, religious houses, schools, community centres and more when fully developed.  It is a prime area of interest and opportunity for both residential and commercial real estate investors. Advantages of owning a New Town commercial plot includes proximity to Lekki FTZ (Free Trade Zone), uncontested title to land, zero corporate income tax, withholding tax, zero VAT on purchases made within the zone, no custom duties on imports, proximity to the Lekki Epe expressway. As an investor in LNT, you also enjoy durable concrete road networks, 24/7 electricity, sewage treatment and regular water. Mixta Africa has made substantial infrastructure investments within the area which includes the construction of a 4.3km access road of first-class standard to be constructed by Grade A contractors. The project, upon completion, will reduce commute time from the New Town Plots to and from FTZ (Free Trade Zone) to just 20 minutes and less than 5 minutes to and from Lakowe Lakes Golf and Country Estate. Lagos New Town is an investor’s dream! ABOUT MIXTA Mixta Africa, a subsidiary of ARM, is a leading infrastructure developer and real estate company focused on creating affordable housing solutions for the average African. Founded in April 2015, Mixta Africa is an active player in the fast-growing African real estate sector. With offices in Morocco, Senegal, Tunisia, Cote d’Ivoire, Nigeria and past projects in Algeria, Mauritania and Egypt, we have successfully developed about 12,500 residential and retail units across the continent. For further information, please visit our website via www.mixtafrica.com, call us on +234 (1) 270 1653 or +234 (0) 809 952 4041 or send an email to sales.nigeria@mixtafrica.com You can also reach out to us through our Social Media channels; on Facebook @mixta.africa, Instagram @mixtaafrica, LinkedIn @mixta-africa.