The National Broadcasting Commission on Monday ordered the stoppage of Politics Today on Channels Television. The commission said it took the decision following the interview the station had with the spokesperson of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Emma Powerful. READ ALSO: Usman, McGregor in war of words The acting Director-General of NCC, Prof. Armstrong Idachaba, said this in a letter to the Managing Director of Channels TV titled, ‘Inciting comments by proscribes group: Politics Today.’ According to him, the IPOB leader made several secessionist and inciting declarations on air without caution or reprimand by Channels TV. Idachaba said, “He also made derogatory, false or misleading statements about the Nigerian Army. This is reprehensible; especially that IPOB remains a proscribed organisation as pronounced by the courts of the land. This much Channels TV ought to know and respect.” The NBC DG referred to Section 5.4.3 which provided that, ‘In reporting conflict situations, the broadcaster shall perform the role of a peace agent by adhering to the principle of responsibility, accuracy and neutrality.’ Idachaba said, “For obviously breaching the above provisions of the law, your station remains liable to sanctions provided in Section 15 of the code which prescribes, among others – suspension of broadcast license and a fine of N5m. “Please be reminded that your station owes the country the responsibility for a truly professional and ethical guided broadcast station especially at times of crisis. Please ensure an immediate stop to the programme.” However, the Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project on Monday threatened to sue the Federal Government if it failed to reverse its decision to suspend Politics Today. SERAP in a statement on Monday by its Deputy Director, Kolawole Oluwadare, urged the Federal Government to reverse the suspension within 48 hours or face legal action. The statement read in part, “This is a new low in Nigeria’s protection of freedom of expression, and the ability of independent media to function in the country. The suspension of Channels Television is detrimental to media freedom, and access to information, and the Federal Government and NBC must immediately reverse the decision.” Also, the Nigerian Guild of Editors condemned the threat to Channels Television by the NBC. The NGE in a statement by its president, Mustapha Isah, and Secretary, Mary Atolagbe, said the Guild stands with Channels TV and would go to any length to defend press freedom in the country. “The body of editors believes that the NBC is guilty of double standards because stations that carried Sheikh Gumi’s parley with terrorists in their camps were not sanctioned by the commission. “The NBC should jettison the practice of issuing threats to broadcast stations over matters that could easily be dealt with through dialogue,” the statement partly reads. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com