Residents of Igbokofin and Asaga in the Yewa-North Local Government Area of Ogun State have kicked against alleged encroachment into the communities by government of Benin Republic . The residents said the encroachment by Benin Republic into communities in Nigeria was wrong. They said the neighbouring country had been making the attempt for a while without any serious response from Nigerian government. Our correspondent, who watched a video clip, gathered that Benin Republic graded a road from that country to Nigeria. A man, who later identified himself simply as Henry to The PUNCH, spoke in the video. He berated the government for its nonchalant attitude towards the plight of the residents. He said, “The is no presence of government in this area.” The President, Yewa-North Patriotic Forum,  Omobolaji  Sanni, who spoke with our correspondent, said Benin Republic had been playing “the game” for 50 years. He said, “This issue of encroachment has been on for over 50 years and Nigerian government is not doing anything. For instance, the market that belongs to Yewa-North, Igbokofin Market  in Ogun State, Nigeria, has been taken over by Benin Republic since about  five years ago.” Sanni also said the Benin Republic government had demolished the Yewa North Primary School built on Nigeria land. He added, “They (Benin Republic government)  have encroached over 40 miles into of our land. “There were some pillars that were used to demarcate the  boundary, but all these pillars have been removed. “The last one which is 78th pillar, is the one that  prompted our people that are  living in Igbokofin and Asaga  to cry out. “Recently, Benin Republic graded its road into Nigeria, and our people challenged them, but one of was beaten up. That day, Benin Republic police took away Nigerian flag. “We are calling on the international boundary commission  to come to our rescue.” Attempts to get the state Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, failed. He did not respond to the message send to his mobile phone, just as calls put to him rang out. But the Chairman, Ogun State Peace Keeping Committee on Farmers/Herders Conflict, Kayode Oladele, said the state government was aware of the matter. He said, “As a matter of fact, our security agencies have been there in few times. I am sure that you know that it is a Federal Government thing because it is an international border between Nigeria and Benin Republic. From my information, the DG International Border has been there. This incursion did not just start today; it is something that had been happening. “We sent our security operatives there about two weeks and a week before the last. At some point they also met with their counterpart from the Republic. The state government is also planning to go for an assessment of the area. I believe that the Federal Government needs to assist because it is a  National Boundary Commission mandate.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com