One Inspector Jonathan Kampani has been dismissed from the Nigeria Police Force for allegedly shooting one Jelili Bakare to death at Quinox Lounge in the Sangotedo area of Lagos State. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi, said in a statement on Sunday that the command had conveyed Bakare’s dismissal to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, Panti, Yaba, for his prosecution. READ ALSO: Why I approached Keyamo for assistance in 2018 — Eedris Abdulkareem He said, “The Lagos State Police Command has dismissed one AP No. 278055 Inspector Jonathan Kampani attached to the Mounted Troop of the Nigeria Police Force for firing at and killing one Jelili Bakare at the Quinox Lounge, Sangotedo area of Lagos State, on March 18, 2021. “The command has conveyed the dismissal of the errant Inspector from the Nigeria Police to the Deputy Commissioner of Police, SCIID, Panti, Yaba, via letter numbered AR. 3100/LS/SPM/vol. 2/321 dated April 16, 2021, for prosecution as advised by the Department of Public Prosecutions of Lagos State. “The state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, had ordered for the arrest and orderly room trial of the inspector after the incident. “He also led a team of senior officers in the command to pay a condolence visit to the family of the deceased at Chief Bakare’s House, Ajiranland, Eti-Osa Local Government Area of Lagos State on Saturday, March 27, 2021, where he promised that justice would be done in the matter.” Adejobi said the CP urged members of the general public, especially the family members of the deceased, to be patient and have trust in the police and the judiciary, adding that the matter would be given necessary attention and commitment. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com