French police arrested three people Friday after a female police employee was stabbed to death at her workplace southwest of Paris by a suspected Islamist extremist from Tunisia who was then shot dead by the security forces. A judicial source said the three were part of the suspect’s “entourage”. President Emmanuel Macron said France would never give in to “Islamist terrorism” after the attack at a police station in Rambouillet, a tranquil commuter town about 60 kilometres (40 miles) from Paris, which revived the trauma of a spate of deadly attacks last year. France’s national anti-terrorism prosecutors said they had opened a terror investigation, also involving the DGSI domestic intelligence service, into the murder of a person holding public authority. A source close to the inquiry told AFP the attacker shouted “Allahu Akbar” (God is Greatest) during the attack. Chief anti-terror prosecutor Jean-Francois Ricard, who spoke outside the station along with Prime Minister Jean Castex, confirmed “comments made by the assailant” indicated a terror motive. – ‘By her side’ –
The 49-year-old woman, an administrative assistant and mother-of-two who was returning from a lunch break, was stabbed in the throat twice and died of her wounds shortly afterwards, the source said. The attacker, 36, identified only as Jamel G., was fatally wounded when an officer opened fire on him. He arrived in France illegally in 2009 but had since obtained residency papers, a police source said, adding that he was unknown to security services. He had just moved to Rambouillet. About 30 police officers wearing balaclavas raided the suspect’s home in Rambouillet on Friday evening, AFP reporters at the scene said. At the same time police searched the home of the person who sheltered Jamel G when he first arrived in France, sources close to the inquiry said. Macron vowed on Twitter that “in our fight against Islamist terrorism, we will never give in”, identifying the murdered woman as Stephanie. “The nation is by the side of her family, her colleagues and security forces,” he said. Interior Minister Gerald Darmanin, who also visited officers in Rambouillet, said security would be stepped up at stations nationwide. (AFP)