Again, bandits who abducted the 39 students of the Federal College of Forestry Mechanisation, Afaka, Kaduna, have released another video of  the students, including a pregnant one among them. The bandits had shortly after the abduction of the students in March 11, 2021, released some students. Out of the 39 students, 10  had so far been released, remaining 29 of them. Governor Nasir El-Rufai had ruled out the option of negotiating with or paying ransom to the bandits, saying that bandits should be “wiped out.” The development forced the bandits to negotiate with the parents directly. However, it the less than five-minute video, the students were in their night and  the bandits demanded that they plead with the government to pay a ransom of N500m. Some of the abductees were mandated by the bandits to come out and plead with their parents to pay the ransom and rescue them. Some of the students spoke in English while others spoke in Hausa. About four of the students who, were ordered to come out and speak, pleaded with their parents to hasten up to pay up the ransom. They talked about the unfriendly atmosphere they found themselves, adding that  they were not been fed and had to sleep in open field and  inside rain. In the latest video, a pregnant student among those kidnapped, who was identified as Hajiya, by the bandits, pleaded for  their rescue. In Hausa language, she pleaded that the parents come and rescue them because of what they were passing through. When asked by one of the bandits of how many day they had spent in captivity, she said they had spent 47 days. Hajiya said, “We are appealing to our parents to help us. We are tired and there is no food. They should do their best to get us out of this place. We have spent 47 days. We sleep in the open even when it rains.” Also, another woman abducted by the same gang of bandits but from Trikaniya in the Chikun Local Government Area of the state, also featured in the video. She was also asked by one of the bandits of her husband profession and the woman that her husband is a military officer based in Warri, Delta State. She called on the Federal Government to come for their rescue, saying the bandits had agreed on N30m ransom. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com