As a former military governor of Ogun State and a retired military officer, what do you think is responsible for the problem of insecurity in Nigeria? Insecurity in this country can truthfully be attributed to bad handling of the security apparatus. When we are ready to fight insecurity, we will overcome it. That is the truth. Another thing responsible for insecurity is lack of employment and the youths feel they don’t have a future. As it is in the Bible, when God told the Israelites, even when he gave the prophecy through Elijah that ‘by this time tomorrow, there will be food,’ they did not believe him until the lepers organised themselves and said, ‘Let us go and see.’ The problem is that they don’t have confidence in the government because of the poor handling of the security situation and all the things that have been mentioned. Are you saying government is not serious about tackling insecurity? I cannot say government is not serious; I believe (the president, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd)) is serious but the people that are handling the matter for him are the problem. They don’t tell him the truth and they don’t have courage to sit down and plan. Every security situation requires planning. There must be good intelligence. You depend on that intelligence and work on it intelligence. What intelligence do we have? How much do we depend on that intelligence and how do we work towards it? What do you think should be done to address the security challenges? It requires comprehensive (planning) and selflessness without thinking about where I come from and who is affected; sitting down to plan on how to overcome this. This government inherited the Boko Haram insurgency, but today, the menace is worse. Is this government serious or incapable of tackling insurgency? I will not accept the fact that insurgency is getting worse. The only thing that appears is getting worse is that there are multiples facets of insecurity. It comes in different names and on several fronts. It’s not Boko Haram now because Boko Haram, to a large extent, has been contained and, with serious commitment, we can erase Boko Haram. The problem becomes kidnapping, banditry and all that. How can we tackle these problems? To tackle these problems, we must go back to the planning table and look at the problems again. Look at what is happening in the South-East; we have to take that very seriously. We must sit down and say, ‘If we have this amount of security access – the police and the military all over the place – and yet some civilians can go and enter the correctional centre and do what they did, not once, twice or thrice, then there is something wrong.’ Why were they not caught or discovered? What arrangements have we put on the ground since it happened one, two or three times, to make sure that we can protect schoolchildren and university students? What have we done? I don’t think they have appropriate plans. I also feel that the military and the police of today are not really what we used to have. I’m not indicting them because I understand their plights. We must return to the basics and look at whether our conversion of the National Defence Academy has really brought us any advantage, except for individual’s persons. But for corporate Nigeria, it has not really given us what we expected. Otherwise, we go back to the basics because I know how Britain converted; I know how America converted from ‘we are not a university’ into offering university courses. People still went to India to have their degrees. Even if we want that, we must stop ‘executive cadets’; children of generals must be ready to subject themselves. If we do this, we are going to train good officers. Also, the issue of discipline must be number one. From the statistics of the National Bureau of Statistics, unemployment is getting worse. Is this government serious about tackling unemployment or incapable? I think the government is serious. The only problem is what we considered should be our employment process or style, which has not really served employment, because what the average youth needs is where to make a worthwhile living, not giving them three months’ salary. With that three months’ salary, the man who is supposed to come will go and take N700 from the N20,000 per month. Things are getting worse every day. What do you think is the problem with Nigeria? Nigeria’s problem is that of leadership. You don’t need to be a professor to lead this country. If you must lead this country, you must be committed to her and her people. You must be committed to ensuring that you address the issues such as poverty and unemployment. These key issues must be addressed and there are processes. It’s not an issue of temporary relief. One thing we must understand is that when a child finishes from school, he begins to lead a life and get married, whether a man or a woman. No matter how much you preach in the church or mosque, the end result will be parents having children that they are not capable of taking care of. And these ones grow to an extent and eventually grow into the situation again. That is what is happening in Nigeria and that is why we can have 59 or 60-year-olds who still call themselves youths because, as far as they are concerned, their situation has not changed. The Federal Government must do a comprehensive planning and fast because about two generations are there in this situation and it is getting worse because you are now producing a cycle of children who have no proper maintenance and will become parents in poverty. What’s your assessment of Buhari since he came into power in 2015? Has he been able to provide leadership? Everybody has his or her own capacity and capabilities. It’s not a question of age and experience; experience should help but you must have your own capacities. You cannot give what you don’t have. Buhari has been depending on people and delegating responsibilities but let me tell you: in a nation such as ours, it’s not everything that you delegate. What we need is for people to actually look at the person they want as President of Nigeria. Look at him individually and in his totality. No one is God to know everything, but at least, he should be capable of identifying things which he wants to do himself and which to delegate and not delegating everything. That is not to say Buhari is not doing well; he is doing well. He trusts people and gives them the mandate to carry out certain things and that is why some people say he is a failure. Buhari is not a failure. 2023 is just around the corner. Which region do you think should produce the next president of this country? I don’t believe in rotation. I believe in quality, and when I talk of quality, I mean commitment to Nigeria and everyone. The president can come from a minority and not necessarily from a bigger tribe. He should be somebody that has the courage, wisdom, knowledge and fear of God; somebody that is committed to everything. Someone who loves Nigeria. We have very good people but when most of them get there, they become something else. It’s not a function of how religious they are. Another thing is that Nigeria must not depend on the rich. How does the rich get their money? As a former military governor of Ogun State, what do you think is responsible for the incessant kidnapping and banditry in that state? Ogun State has always had the tendencies of such issues. I remember when I was in Ogun. After studying the ground, the structure of the state, and the hideouts of armed robbers, those of us who were governors in the South-West sat down and planned a comprehensive security network. I remember we gave different names to the security outfits but they meant the same thing and we had plans for the entire states. When we identified an area where there was a serious problem, we would concentrate on all sides and make sure we closed in on them. There must be a comprehensive arrangement. After Ogun, it is Lagos. Ogun is one place that people will run to, whether from Ibadan, Lagos, Benin Republic or Ondo. If you are the governor there, you must know this and be prepared to identify their hideouts and that is what I did. Now that the security situation in Ogun has degenerated, how can be remedied? I have known the present governor, Dapo Abiodun, right from the time I was there. He is concerned about security and I also know what efforts he has put in. I also know the troubles he has. One thing I would advise him to do is call a meeting of all stakeholders, including traditional rulers, and that will help him. Talking about Akwa Ibom State, what is the problem with the APC in the state? The problems with the APC in Akwa Ibom is simply that the major players are servants of somebody, an outsider who wants to be in charge of the South-South and also Nigeria and these players have become servants to him because they have been bought and pocketed. They want to ensure that the entire Akwa Ibom people are also subjects to him. And as a result, they believe that same master of theirs is an enemy to (Godswill) Akpabio because Akpabio will always say no to what their master wants. That is the whole problem of the APC in Akwa Ibom State. Unfortunately, these are people who have not wished Akwa Ibom people well. They are always interested in appointments and that is what they’re trading (integrity) for. Even the party chairman has been promised that appointment; that is why you see him doing what he is doing, but the issue is ignorance. I am only pleading with them to allow Akwa Ibom people be. Akpabio is the leader of the party and none of them can stop him from leading the party. Before I went to call Akpabio, they knew about it. They agreed but they never believed that I would be able to bring him because he was looking at them. He was financing the party until April last year, when (John) Udoedeghe began to sing songs that he is the leader of the party. How can he be? This is the crux of the matter. Somebody has put him (Udoedehe) in that office; somebody puts Umana Umana (in office) and they are ready to subject themselves to that man. They think Akwa Ibom must not exist; that Akwa Ibom people must be subjected to that man. But I’m saying no. That is the problem, and as a matter of fact, it’s not a crisis because we have overcome. Akpabio is the leader of the party and we are all subjected to him. Why did your group pick Akpabio as leader of the party? I don’t have a group that picked Akpabio as leader of the party. The constitution of the party does not know who the leader of the party is. But conventionally, the leader of the party is the man who holds the highest political office or a former governor, if you don’t have a governor in power. But right now, these other people, like Udoedehe, Umana Umana and Ita Enang, sold themselves out and they don’t want to come under Akpabio because that is what they’re told by their master and I am saying no, we are not going to honour that. Akwa Ibom is Akwa Ibom. Let him go and control his territory and leave Akwa Ibom for Akwa Ibom people. Akpabio is the leader of the party; there are various other leaders like Udoedehe; he is a leader in his own right. Umana Umana is a leader. Everybody is a stakeholder; even those that have sympathy for the party are stakeholders and I have the right to call a stakeholders meeting. Some people are insinuating that the reason you are supporting Akpabio to be the leader of the party is that he has enough money to go round…. No, that is not the issue. If they don’t know, let them ask. Go anywhere, President Buhari is the leader of the party in the nation. All governors where the APC is ruling are leaders of the party. For example, when Odigie Oyegun was the national chairman of the party, Adams Oshiomhole was the governor; Oshiomhole was the leader. When Oshiomhole became the national chairman of the party, the governor then took over as leader of the party. Why is Udoedehe claiming to be the leader of the party and now saying it is either him or nobody and that he has everybody in his pocket? That is the real problem of Akwa Ibom State, and we want that to change. Udoedeghe must stop saying he is going to put a structure in place himself so that he will become the governor. If he believes he is popular enough to go for governorship of Akwa Ibom, let him leave everybody alone and all of us will be happy to vote for him. But when he thinks he is not capable of running for election and he wants to go behind the bar, he will never make it. I can assure that if he insists, what is going to happen in the end is that this party will scatter. Why is the Secretary of the APC National Caretaker Committee against Akpabio? Don’t you think he may have his points? It is because he wants to keep doing what he is doing. He has deceived people that he is the leader of the party,  that he has everybody in his pocket and many people are supporting him. Umana Umana has agreed with him. Ita Enang has agreed with him. That is why I left their meeting that day, and when I left, the meeting ended. People moved out with me and he quickly called for a national anthem and closed the meeting. Before Akpabio defected to the APC, he was quoted as saying the President, Major Gen Muhammadu Buhari (retd) is incompetent. Do you think this same person can be trusted? This is politics. There is no permanent friend or permanent enemy. He was on the other side, but today, he is on this side, and even Buhari knows that he cannot say that again. Why are elders of the party against Akpabio being the leader of the party? I don’t believe elders of the party are against Akpabio, and let me say this loud and clear that the elders of the party are not against Akpabio. It’s only people who have been bought over. Somebody gave Udoedehe that appointment. Somebody gave Umana Umana (his appointment) and they also believe that in subsequent governments, that same person will have a place. So, they want to fight for that person. It doesn’t matter what happens to the people. Is it these people you think are interested in Akwa Ibom people? They cannot be. All I am saying is leave our people alone. We cannot be protected because you have been pocketed. What makes the APC unpopular in the South-South? It’s the problem of our people because I can tell you that my late father used to tell me that life is all about forgiveness and forgetfulness of the past; you forget the past and live. If you get to a place where you don’t forgive, people will not forgive you either. Look at what is happening in Rivers. Why is the crisis so persistent? Because someone has refused to forgive and he cannot be forgiven. Somebody believes that others are rubbish; he is the only cock that wants to crow. That is the problem of the South-South and that is the problem I am trying to cure; that it cannot happen. Let them come under one person because in the committee of periwinkles, there is a leader. Given the situation the APC finds itself in, what is going to be the fate of the party in 2023? In Akwa Ibom State, this problem is going to phase out, which is why I brought Akpabio. We have to sit down together and plan for 2023, that I can assure you will be done. Do you see any ethnic colouration to the question of Akpabio being leader of the party? There is no ethnic colouration because there is no ethnic difference in Akwa Ibom and I would not accept anything like that. I don’t have anybody as an enemy. If you offend me, I look at how you have offended me because I cannot be your judge, and I leave you to God. I don’t owe you friendship; I owe you love. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com