The House of Representatives has threatened ministries, departments and agencies of the Federal Government who duplicate subheads in their budgets for the purpose of defrauding the government as well as those who fail to show up at the ongoing investigative hearings on the House. The Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, issued the warning in Abuja on Tuesday while declaring open the hearing organised by the ‘ad hoc committee to probe capital projects executed and funds repeated in Appropriation Acts from 2015 till date by MDAs of government across the nation’. Gbajabiamila, who was represented by the Majority Leader, Alhassan Ado-Doguwa, condemned the low turnout of invited government officials whose MDAs had been accused of capital projects duplication in successive budgets. He said, “I am concerned by the low turnout of relevant government officials to engage the legislature on this very critical assignment. I would have expected to come across on the floor of this hearing, a minimum of permanent secretaries and perhaps all the procurement directors in various ministries and agencies of government. “But what I am seeing, except if you have some problems in terms of communication; I want to believe that there is laxity on the part of these agencies to come and engage the committee on this critical assignment.” He added, “This institution, the House of Representatives, and by extension the National Assembly, will not take lightly any agency of government that will for no reason take for granted the cordial working relationship between the legislature and the executive arm of government.” Chairman of the committee, Abubakar Yalleman, and members of the panel later at the technical session, grilled officials of the National Universities Commission led by the Director Finance and Account, Sam Onazi. Yalleman noted that the approved budgets of the NUC were seen but details of Appropriation Acts from 2015 to date were not supplied. He noted that the details of funds released were not provided by the commission, even though the panel had obtained the same from the Budget Office of the Federation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com