The body of the late spokesperson for Yoruba sociocultural group, Afenifere, Yinka Odumakin, arrived in his Moro hometown, Osun State, on Friday for the final burial rites. The body arrived the town in a long convoy and was taken to the deceased’s residence at Annex Royal Hotel Area, Moro. READ ALSO: Presidency bashed for backing Pantami, Reps caucus seeks minister’s exit Earlier, the body was received at Asejire, an Osun/Oyo boundary community, by officials of the state government. Receiving the body on behalf of the state government, the Chief of Staff to the governor, Dr Charles Akinola, described Odumakin as an illustrious son of the state. Akinola said, “Mr Yinka Odumakin was not just a leader of conscience, a finest human rights leader in this country, but a nationalist, as he was such a first-class Yoruba nationalist as well.” Responding, the deceased’s wife, Dr Joe Okei-Odumakin, thanked the state government, saying the consolation of the family was that the legacy of her husband would remain forever. She said, “Here is Yinka’s corpse. He was my friend, comrade, soulmate, and husband. If I came back to this world over and over, I would get married to him again and again. “We are grateful to the State of Osun, for the great reception at this sober moment. When a spokesperson stops speaking, you know how heavy it is, but our consolation is that Yinka’s ideals and legacy live forever.” Okei-Odumakin urged Nigerians to rededicate their lives to a better Nigeria. Speaking with newsmen at the Moro country home of the late right activist shortly after the body arrived on the premises located on Ewuru Street, Moro, the widow said her late husband was against massive killings and was for true federalism and a restructured Nigeria. She said, “He was against massive killings, he was for true federalism and a restructured Nigeria. He was for a Nigeria that works, he was for the protection of human rights, he was after doing things right. “This is the heaviest part of my life, to speak about this comrade after knowing him for over three decades. One thing is certain, that his ideals are going to live forever. “What he stood for will never die and the moment that his physical body will be interred, we want to plead that people should rededicate their lives to a better Nigeria for a race that works.” Commenting on the programme for the internment, she said the activities would commence with lying-in-state from 8am and will end by 10am on Saturday at the playground of Origbo Grammar School. Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, is expected to lead other eminent Nigerians to the burial service for the deceased, holding at the playground of Origbo Grammar School, Moro. The Chief of Staff to the governor, Dr Charles Akinola, told newsmen at the residence of the late Afenifere spokesperson that Oyetola would attend the event in person. Dr Akinola, who had earlier led the state government delegation that received the remains of the late Odumakin at Asejire, said the deceased lived a life of service. He said, “Mr Governor will be here tomorrow (Saturday) to demonstrate how important, how valued Mr Yinka Odumakin is. He sent his condolences to the family.” Akinola described Odumakin as an illustrious son of the state. He said, “Mr Yinka Odumakin was not just a leader of conscience, a finest human rights leader in this country, but also a nationalist, as he was a first-class Yoruba nationalist as well.” Responding, the widow thanked the state government, saying the family’s consolation was that the legacies of the deceased would live forever. She said, “Here is Yinka’s corpse, he is my friend, comrade, my soul mate and husband.  If I come back to this world over and over, I will get married to him. “We are grateful to the state of Osun, for the great reception at this sober moment. When a spokesperson stops speaking, you know how heavy it is, but our consolation is that Yinka’s ideals and legacies live forever.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com