Nipple discharge refers to any kind of fluid that flows out of the breast through the nipple. Occasionally, a firm squeeze delivered on the nipple is what is needed to produce the fluid. Sometimes, and much more commonly, the fluid would flow out on its own. Of course, nipple discharge occurs less commonly amongst women who are neither breastfeeding nor pregnant than in those who are in these states. However, when it occurs in the absence of pregnancy or breastfeeding, it is advisable to let a doctor check it properly. This is doubly important when there is also a lump felt within that breast. When there is this combination of circumstances, the breast will have to be physically examined, scanned, and biopsied. Often, a mammogram is requested and the result obtained from the biopsy is taken with all seriousness because it can turn out to be a life-changing problem that can lead to bankruptcy and death. In consideration of these consequences, there is no best time to see a doctor other especially when it does not seem right. If there is no reason for the discharge, it is likely that there is a problem. The spectacle of nipple discharge is one that is usually seen amongst women of reproductive age, and should cause no undue anxiety. That is because nipple discharge is a normal part of the functions of the breast during pregnancy and breastfeeding. The expression of milk after breastfeeding should affect both breasts normally and can be viewed as being the norm. This is a feature that can continue even up to between two and three years after breastfeeding has been stopped. This property of the breasts can also be seen when there are fibrocystic changes in it and also when there are changes in the blood levels of the various hormones during the menstrual cycle. While many different factors can be responsible for the onset of nipple discharge in women, it often can be a response to certain hormones whose changing patterns in the body can precipitate it. Therefore, the onset of clear or milky-white, or even yellow nipple discharge, are features associated with early and late pregnancy, but may even persist well beyond this period. Nipple discharge can be caused by a host of factors. It is possible for this event to occur in women who are not pregnant and even in some men. Women who have never been pregnant can similarly be affected in a scenario known as galactorrhea. This occurrence is seen in about one-quarter of all women. It can also be seen in men as we have said before and in newborns as well. Generally, it may also be accompanied by some other health conditions which we shall talk about here. The most common feature of this condition in women is the production of excessive milk. The other feature is the increase in the size of the breasts with the result that they become heavier as well. The woman concerned may also begin to miss her monthly periods or the periods may become irregular. She may also develop acne affecting mainly the face and shoulders. There may also be the development of an abnormal hair pattern with some women growing beards, sideburns, and leg hairs. Nausea and headaches may also be added problems these women may experience. The advent of nipple discharge in men is not exactly a rare event. It is often seen in a lot of young teenagers just going into puberty, and in this phase of growth, the breast tissue enlarges somewhat with some mild pain. This is a normal physiological development and should resolve within several months if the breasts are not massaged and squeezed by the patient or their mothers. When they are stimulated abnormally in this way, the discharge can change appearance from a clear fluid to milky-white. This is often mediated by a hormone produced in the brain and known as prolactin. In addition, prolactin production may be further enhanced by the intake of certain medications which contain hormones, drugs used in the treatment of depression, and high blood pressure. Birth control medications are also implicated in this problem just as it is for some medications which are commonly in use for the treatment of peptic ulcer diseases. In men, the additional problem caused by nipple discharge is a reduced sex drive and also reduced libido. That is why it is often not enough to just buy Viagra or Cialis and proceed to use them without investigating why libido has diminished. Nipple discharge can also be caused by an infection within the breast. Cellulitis of the breast may also cause an abnormal nipple discharge in just the same way a breast abscess may be responsible for it. When the discharge is white, or cloudy, or yellowish, and filled with pus an infection of the breast tissue or an abscess is likely to be responsible. So also can an infection of the nipple be the cause. But when the discharge is clear or bloody, especially when it is coming out of one nipple, cancer in that breast should be feared and everything should be done to try and identify the presence of a tumour. A dark brown discharge or one that is cheesy may also indicate the presence of a breast duct ectasia which can be confirmed when a breast biopsy is conducted. That usually means that the milk duct is blocked thereby causing pressure to back up within the breast thereby causing a dilatation. Lastly, such breast discharge could be greenish in appearance which is seen when there are cysts within the breasts. When a nipple discharge occurs in the absence of being squeezed, it is an issue that requires resolution. A complaint must be laid at a hospital so that the appropriate steps can be taken to solve the mystery. Mostly, if the discharge occurs only when the breast or nipple is squeezed, it is advisable to stop such squeezing and leave the affected breast alone. When you are uncertain whether this happens, you can make it a habit to examine your bra or nightgown for any signs of discharge occurring during the night. If any such signs are uncovered, you must save the clothing and show it to the doctor when you do go to complain. If on the other hand, you are neither breastfeeding nor pregnant and you observe a nipple discharge, it is advisable to stop squeezing the breast otherwise the discharge can then continue for months. Dear doctor, I read your articles frequently and I just want to appreciate you for the work you are doing sir, I have hair on my legs and arms in unusual amounts and as a 26-year-old woman who has yet been married and not even in a relationship, I feel this is contributing to my problems. I have used shaving sticks before with and without a shaving cream but the legs especially remain rough and pimples develop after a few days. What can I do to at least look like other women? Thank you.  0806xxxxxxx Well, the difficulties you have are with respect to deploying an appropriate shaving kit that would serve you well. You could use any of several depilatory creams available on the market and they are effective for this purpose. There is Veet, Fem, Nair, and One. All of them come in various sizes with different formulations as well for normal skin and sensitive skin. They leave smooth skin behind and there is little risk of having any blemish. Dear doctor, please I need to see you sir. I am 28 years old. I don’t have sexual feelings let alone orgasms. Please I need a solution so that I can feel like a woman too. I got married almost two years ago and I believe my inability to connect with my husband is driving him away. He didn’t tell me but I can feel it. I have not been able to get pregnant either and all of these things are weighing me down. Am I just different or there’s something wrong? Please help me. 0702xxxxxxx Well, you do not have to see me actually. You can see your regular family doctor who could link you up with a gynaecologist or a psychologist or both depending on what he or she thinks the problem to be. When that is done, it is likely that a solution will be found for your problem. You need to know that treatment could last for some time and you can generally expect to do well as long as you keep an open mind. There must be forces that keep you from fully expressing your sexual desires and these probably play a huge role in making you suffer like this. Dear doctor, I recently observed that my vagina was still discharging blood with clots nearly five days after I had an evacuation done for a missed abortion. Sometimes, my tummy will pain me and twist me so badly and then relieve me. The doctor who did the procedure did not really tell me much except a clinic appointment after one week but is this normal? Am I supposed to still be bleeding this much?  0802xxxxxxx Thank you very much for your question. What you are experiencing now could be due to some retained products of conception as it is often described. That means the evacuation has not been completed. That is one reason why you would be bleeding like this and have associated pain. An infection can also be the problem. The best thing is to return to the hospital where this service was provided and make a complaint (this patient was directed to that hospital as an emergency and she had a repeat procedure). That will solve this problem and in this case, all bleeding stopped afterwards. Dear doctor, my Sunday will not be complete without going through your column; thank you for your response to people’s ill-health that I read in the Sunday PUNCH. I have rheumatism and under my foot, it appears there is a fire burning there and movement is becoming difficult. Sometimes, it seems as if there is no blood in my legs. Can rheumatism be responsible for such? What do you recommend? Thank you and May God continue to guide you. 0905xxxxxxx You are most appreciated for all your support. What you need to do is see your physician and table this complaint. He may also want an orthopaedic surgeon to review you as well depending on what they find. The problem you have is due to a nerve injury most probably rather than rheumatism. The term rheumatism is an umbrella of symptoms marked by inflammation in the muscles, joints, and fibrous tissues. It does not bear any resemblance to what you have complained about. However, it is a problem that can be treated and you will be at peace again. Dear doctor, I am a 48-year-old woman and I live in Yola, Adamawa State. I have a strange and terrible stomach pain whenever it is in the hot season like this. It has been happening to me since when I was small and my mother recently reminded me of it when she came visiting and I was going to the toilet often after having the pain. Initially, I thought that it was the rice I ate with vegetables but when she reminded me I decided to be calm but is this possible?  Sometimes, I even feel like fainting and the pain will be so much that one would think it is something. else. 0803xxxxxxx Well, you can suffer from some strong adverse stimuli depending on your mental constitution. People can experience similar discomfort and vomit or have the urge to use the toilet like you experienced when they sight human blood as it flows from a wound. Some people can have this kind of reaction when they enter a hospital. Others can do so when they come upon an accident scene or some other scenario of human suffering. If intense temperatures make you truly uncomfortable, you can suffer similar effects and throw up or pass stool as well as experience abdominal pain. Dear doctor, I have some health challenges. In the last six months, I noticed I have a dull pain in my right arm. I also have a swelling at the back of that arm close to the shoulder that I have been told about five or six years ago is a lipoma. The pain is much. But now, there is numbness and tingling sensation in that forearm. I do not have diabetes but I am hypertensive with good control due to the drugs I take. I am also on Aspirin and I am 52 years old. I saw a doctor at my office clinic who told me that the lipoma has probably grown to a size whereby it is now compressing the nerve and that is why I have so much pain. What do you advise me to do?  0813xxxxxxx You need to see a plastic surgeon to properly assess the problem you have and also determine if you do have a lipoma. It is not common to find a lipoma causing all these effects and whatever it may be shows evidence that it could be growing rather faster than a lipoma normally would. Other growths are therefore possible and that is why a thorough evaluation is vital. That way, the path forward can be made clear, and you will be able to have the proper treatment you need for this problem in a safe and timely manner. Dear doctor, I am 52 years old with three children. I recently did a comprehensive health check on the advice of my doctor and he told me that one of the scans detected a cyst in one of my kidneys. I have high blood pressure and I am on medications for that but now I am wondering if it may have been caused by the cyst. It is well controlled and I sleep well. Although he has told me not to bother about this cyst because of the small size, I am curious to know what implication it has for my health from now on. 0902xxxxxxx I believe you may have had that kidney cyst for many years. A single cyst cannot be the cause of your raised blood pressure. A polycystic kidney that has numerous cysts much larger than yours may be responsible for such a problem.  And their presence would have been identified before this time because of the way in which they will deform your kidney causing it to swell and making it possible to feel it. This one was picked up incidentally, I would say while searching for some other problem. You can rest your mind; this is not an issue. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com