Agnosys Health, Nigeria’s leading nursing service provider has announced the relaunch of its on-Demand Vaccination service – Immunehome. Immunehome facilitates convenient vaccinations from home by qualified and experienced nurses for infants, children, and adults. Ultimately the service promotes the reduction of vaccine preventable diseases – these accounts for 20% of morbidity and mortality in children below five. In Adults, getting immunized against vaccine preventable diseases such as Cervical cancer and Hepatitis B helps stimulate the body’s adaptive immunity and reduces those diseases’ chances. Commenting on the launch, Mrs Taiwo Alade, Co-Founder Agnosys Health said “Immunehome is a fantastic innovation especially in the current pandemic where people have had to adjust their lifestyle drastically. It also helps bridge the enormous gap of under-vaccinated infants in Nigeria”. She stated further “that the novel application eliminates the inconvenience of waiting in line at the hospital for a shot when it can be delivered seamlessly in the client’s home”. On Partnerships, she added that, “there’s a robust relationship with the National Program for Immunization (NPI) for the compulsory vaccines and Pharma accredited vaccination vendors for non-NPI vaccines. We take quality assurance and customer satisfaction seriously, and this is evident in our storage facilities and medical assessments overseen by our in-house pediatrician, Dr. Ayodele Renner and qualified registered nurses”. The service commenced last year March and Agnosys health will be launching an awareness campaign “Get Protected” during the world immunization week celebrated from 24th – 30th April 2021. For more information, please contact us via our helpline +2348181579000, Facebook, Instagram & Twitter: @agnosyscod, email: clientservice@agnosyshealth.com, or Agnosys health website: www.agnosyshealth.com/immunehealth/ About Agnosys Health Agnosys Health is a leading digital healthcare platform which serves infants, children, and adults for easy access to vaccinations.