the Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria had last week embarked on an indefinite nationwide strike in protest against the denial of the judiciary its constitutionally guaranteed financial autonomy which was also affirmed by a Federal High Court judgement in January 2014. Part of the effects of the strike is that suspects who ordinarily should not spend more than 48 hours in custody are being detained indefinitely. Last year, the COVID-19 pandemic paralysed the judicial system as courts were shut for months. That already caused a serious setback, with a backlog of cases needing urgent attention. With this ongoing strike, courts have been shut again. That means certain cases would be adjourned indefinitely and people would be unjustly detained for longer than expected. Personally, I feel that this strike action is unavoidable, particularly because of certain actions of the government that have had a negative effect on the country’s judicial system. The way out of this quagmire is for state governors to observe the rule of law to the letter and obey judgments of the court. After all, sections 81 (3) and 121 (3) of Nigeria’s Constitution grant financial autonomy to both federal and state judiciaries. This has been further confirmed by courts in the following cases― Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria vs National Judiciary Council and Governors of the 36 States in the Suit No: FHC/Abj/Cs/667/13; Olisa Agbakoba Vs FG, The NJC and National Assembly in the Suit No. FHC/Abj/CS/63/2013; and Olisa Agbkaoba Vs Ag, Ekiti State and two others in the Suit No. Nad/56/2013. The acts of some state governors to frustrate and paralyse the judicial system will further deepen the crisis of insecurity and crimes such as armed robbery, banditry, kidnapping, jail breaking and attack on law enforcement offices. Meanwhile, this would make people lose interest in the judicial system and more Nigerians would take laws into their hands. Needless to say, that is not a scenario that would be favourable to anybody. I hereby urge state governors to urgently and holistically enforce the decisions of the courts and save the country from this needless chaos. I am of the opinion that JUSUN is within its right to ‘agitate’ for a policy of financial independence of the courts, which is guaranteed by the Constitution. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com