Earlier today, American singer, Willow Smith, revealed that she is polyamorous. The singer and daughter of Hollywood iconic stars ― Will Smith and Jada Pinkett ― made this known during the Wednesday episode of the ‘Red Table Talk’ ― an original Facebook watch show hosted by her mother and grandmother. Polyamory is the act of having romantic relationships with multiple partners, with the consent of all parties involved.
However, Willow’s viewpoint is not farfetched as her parents once subscribed to polyamory in their marriage. Since walking down the aisle in 1997, Will Smith and Jada Pinkett have acknowledged that their union is a bit unconventional. Back in February 2005, Will spoke to the Daily Mail about how he and his wife communicate their sexual desires. “Our perspective is, you don’t avoid what’s natural,” he said. “You’re going to be attracted to people. In our marriage vows, we didn’t say ‘forsaking all others.’ The vow that we made was that you would never hear that I did something after the fact. If it came down to it, then one can say to the other, ‘Look, I need to have sex with somebody. I’m not going to if you don’t approve of it — but please approve of it.'” More so, During an April 2013 interview with HuffPost Live, Jada offered more insight into their marriage. She said, “I’ve always told Will, ‘You can do whatever you want as long as you can look at yourself in the mirror and be OK,’ because, at the end of the day, Will is his own man. “I’m here as his partner, but he is his own man. He has to decide who he wants to be and that’s not for me to do for him. Or vice versa.” However, she clarified her statements on Facebook, writing, “Open marriage? The statement I made in regard to, ‘Will can do whatever he wants,’ has illuminated the need to discuss the relationship between trust and love and how they co-exist.” Meanwhile, last year, it was revealed that Jada had an affair with a rapper from New Orleans, August Alsina.
In an interview with The Breakfast Club, August addressed the rumours that he was once involved with Jada.
He claimed that Will gave him permission to hook up with Jada after his marriage to her “transformed” into what he described as a non-romantic “life partnership.” Reports of a potential romance between August and Jada came to light after one of his music videos featured the name Koren, which happens to be Jada’s middle name. The rapper claims he has been with Jada for “years” during her marriage to Will.
Reacting to the allegation on July 10, 2020, during an episode of the Red Table Talk, Jada faced her husband and spilled the beans as she seized the moment to clear the air on the falsehood that has been making rounds. She said, “About four years ago, [I] started a friendship with August. And we actually became really, really good friends. And it all started with him just needing some help.” She further debunked the myth about her husband granting August Alsina permission to have a relationship with her before calling what the two had by another name. “I got into an entanglement with August. I was in a lot of pain, and I was very broken. In the process of that relationship, I definitely realized that you can’t find happiness outside of yourself,” Jada stated.