what is your educational background? I attended St Rapheals Kiddies School for my primary education. For my secondary education, I went to Winners College. I latter proceeded to the Obafemi Awolowo University where I bagged a degree in Biology. I wanted to pursue a Master’s degree at OAU but I dropped out to take over my dad’s business after his demise. Give us some insights into your career trajectory. There is that saying that, ‘Never despise your little beginning’. I started this (entrepreneurial) journey after the demise of my father, Chief Sunday Obi. Few months into the business, I got a job offer from a bank, and it was not easy running a business alongside a banking job. The job exposed me to many opportunities. One of those opportunities was Megvers Microfinance Bank, which is presently one of the leading microfinance banks in Ondo State. At the moment, we are into farming, poultry and piggery. We also distribute drinks and operate a microfinance bank, as well as a real estate and business consultancy firm. This is in addition to a betting outlet also in Ondo State. Why did you decide to combine a job in banking with running a business? I once read an article where it was stated that in every developing country, if one wants to live above average, one must have more than one job. Since then, I resolved to have multiple streams of income, aside from banking. What were the challenges you faced when you first took over the running of the company? Challenges include cash flow management, hiring of employees, time management with my banking job, delegating tasks, choosing what to sell, capital, strapped budget and getting people to see the vision of the company and buying into it. What type of corporate culture do you aim to promote in your company? Firstly, it is important to always acknowledge God. We aim to maintain good relationships with people (relationship capital). We also intend to use our brains more than our hands by working smartly. This is in addition to being honest, disciplined and unique. Also, we aim to acquire the right competence needed for our growth as talent is not enough. How have you been able to surmount the challenges you are confronted with in the course of running the company? You don’t judge a general by his conduct in times of peace; you judge a general by his conduct in times of war. By the special grace of God, we have built the company to be one of the most vibrant brands in Ondo State. We have survived several challenges including a boycott, a pandemic and one of the worst seasons in business. God has given me the gift to create what others can only imagine. He also ‘called’ me to be a ‘financial deliverer’. Since the inception of the company, not a day has passed without someone making money because of this business. What sets you apart from your competitors? That would be passion. We are never satisfied with current results and that is the fuel the company runs on. We believe we can always get better. Focus and zero complacency guarantees lasting competitive advantage. How does your company aim to contribute its quota towards improving the housing deficit in Nigeria? I have a saying that, ‘If one’s neighbour is hungry, one’s chicken is not safe’. Many people buy lands, erect buildings and sell to make profit. But, we don’t do that. We do what is called ‘addictive project development’. We research to get the best and create a story around it. What are the peculiar challenges you face in the real estate sector of your business? Despite the encouraging and evolving trends the real estate market is experiencing, it is still burdened by several issues that are hindering its growth. Some of the issues are high cost of real estate development, limited source of funding, devaluation of the naira, the ‘omo onile’ (land grabbers) menace, bribery and corruption, and multiple taxation. Where do you see the company in the next five years? To become a brand that people trust and to be able to solve every household problem. I also hope to have grown it to a multi-billion naira firm. How do you pamper yourself? I do that by listening to my mentors, reading, and spending time with family and likeminded people. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com