Oando Foundation and the Nigerian Conservation Foundation through a project tagged ‘Clean Our World’ have expressed their commitment to environmental education and cleaner community. A statement titled ‘Oando Foundation, NCF, others engaged in community cleanup’ said they engaged in the cleanup of a community in Ilasamaja area of Lagos State recently. The statement said their activities were also supported by Lagos-Isolo Lions Club 404 B-1 led by its President, Mrs Deola Olatunbosun; African Clean-up Initiative; and members of the community on Baale Street. “Oando Foundation and Sumitomo Chemical have expanded the scope of partnership by initiating this project aimed at promoting environmental education and sustainable action for pupils in target schools and host communities in Lagos State with the NCF as the implementing partner,” It stated. The COW project, it said, created awareness about environmental issues and responsible practices, empowered children and teachers in seven public primary schools and their host communities with the knowledge of plastic recycling and waste management, while encouraging the adoption of eco-conscious lifestyles. Benefitting schools and communities included Dele Ajomale Schools Complex (I–IV) Ilasamaja, Metropolitan Primary School, Orile-Iganmu, Olisa Primary School and Methodist Primary School, Mushin. According to the statement, it is estimated that Nigeria generated over 32 million tons of solid waste annually of which 30 per cent was plastic. The statement said, “There is increased flooding across cities during the rainy season due to clogged drainage systems, directly attributable to poor waste disposal techniques. “Education is an essential element of the global response to environmental sustainability. “It helps young people understand and address environmental issues, encourages changes in their attitudes and behaviour, and helps them adapt to climate change-related trends.” When environmental education was integrated into the curriculum, it stated, pupils were more enthusiastic and engaged in learning, which improved learner achievement in core academic areas. Creating awareness on recycling, environmental responsibility and sustainability would help explain, inform, motivate, persuade, and encourage beneficiaries in target schools and communities to embrace behavioral changes necessary for long-term impact, it stated. The statement said since the COW project was launched in October 2020, it had achieved a lot including reaching over 7994 children, teachers, government representatives and community members with the knowledge of climate change, sustainable environmental practices and proper waste management approaches and upcycling. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com