A faction of the Peoples Democratic Party in Kano State has suspended a former governor of the state, Rabiu Kwankwaso, over the crisis that erupted at the party’s North- West Zonal Congress in Kaduna last week. Kwankwaso’s suspension was contained in a letter signed by the secretary of a faction of the party in the state, H. A. Tsanyawa. Recall that the PDP in the state has two factions with Kwankwaso leading one and a former Minister of Foreign Affairs, Aminu Wali, leading the other. The Wali-led faction, in the letter dated April 16,2021, said Kwankwaso has been suspended on three-count charge. According to the letter, the faction, at a meeting held on April 15, 2021, resolved to suspend Kwankwaso and his supporters for three months in accordance with the provisions of section 58(1) of the PDP constitution. The former governor was accused of leading his supporters to disrupt the congress held in Kaduna. The faction, in the letter alleged that “You are also charged with abusing our two serving governors and major North-West stakeholders present during the convention. ‘’That your supporters destroyed election materials on your directives and in your presence.” But the secretary of the other faction of the party, Jamilu Danbatta, in a statement said the Wali-led faction of the PDP lacked any legal backing to query or suspend any member of the party. Danbatta said no query was issued to Kwankwaso. The statement read, “The general public may recall that this same group of impostors earlier issued a fake dismissal letter to Senator Kwankwaso in December last year. “It should be noted that they lacked any legal backing to issue any query or suspend any member of the party. “The PDP Kano State chapter under the able leadership of Alhaji Shehu Sagagi wishes to inform all stakeholders and security agencies that the atrocities of these bad elements will no longer be tolerated and that legal action will soon be instituted against them for impersonation.’’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com