The Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, on Friday said state governors on the platform of the Nigeria Governors Forum altered some parts of the agreement they reached on Monday with other stakeholders on the implementation of financial autonomy for state legislature and the judiciary, hence the lingering industrial action by members of the Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria. He said the affected areas of the agreement were fundamental in terms of the execution of Sections 83 and 162 of the Executive Order 10. Ngige disclosed this in an interview with State House correspondents after a meeting he had with the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The chairman of the NGF, Kayode Fayemi, had after a meeting of the technical committee on the matter chaired by the Chief of Staff to the President, Prof Ibrahim Gambari, on Monday disclosed that state governors and other stakeholders had reached an agreement on the implementation. Although he did not disclose the details of the agreement reached, Fayemi assured the nation that the implementation will start in May. But Ngige said on Friday that some parts of the agreement were altered by the NGF. He said, “We reviewed what has been done. The Chief of Staff did what we call in labour parlance tripartite plus arrangement by engaging them, both parties conceded; the Nigeria Governors’ Forum, the heads of courts, state judges, the unions and the Presidential Implementation Committee for Executive Order 10 led by the Attorney General, represented by the Solicitor-General of the Federation and Permanent Secretary. “So, we reviewed where they are. We had a twist two days ago because the arrangement they had with the Chief of Staff had to be altered when the governors got back to their forum. “As the conciliator, when they presented the two papers, one from the Solicitor-General and another one from the Director-General of the NGF, I had to tell them that we have to reconcile those papers, because the areas where they differ are very fundamental areas in terms of the execution of Sections 83 and 162. “We need the governors to touch this among themselves and come back, because in consultation, I receive documents, issues from the unions, and the NBA, and even the representative of the heads of courts on one side, and then from these government people of NGF, and the Solicitor-General of the Federation representing Attorney-General. “So, if the government’s papers are not on the same page, then the discussion will be very difficult and fruitless. So, that is where we are. “As I finish from here, I am going to have another meeting with the Chief of Staff so that we can make a move. The President has directed that we meet and study the situation so that we can advise the government’s side on what is best in the situation.” The minister said it was not in the interest of the country that courts remain closed. He said there were grievous implications for the country when suspects could not be taken to court. The minister added, “Nobody is happy that the courts are closed. There are grievous implications for the country if suspects cannot be taken to court for them to be remanded or put on bail. “So, it is a very ugly situation for us. So, this is the main issue I briefed the President on apart from some assignments.” The minister also described the ongoing strike by members of the Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics as one that has gone out of hand. “On ASUP, as a matter of fact, by our mandate, we apprehend and mediate issues that have gone out of hand. Yes, this one has gone out of hand,” he said. Ngige said he had met with the striking union members twice since the strike action started. He said he was giving the Ministry of Education till weekend to resolve the matter, failure of which his ministry would take over. He said a lot of their demands that also concern universities had been tackled, while he believed that the Ministry of Education was capable of tackling the ones that are peculiar to the polytechnics like appointment of rectors, principal officers, and some other minor issues. “But by next week, if they are not able to do so, we will have no other choice but to invite them to the table. And of course, we will first ask them to call off the strike,” the minister said. While saying the nation is in a season of strike, he said some agreements were also reached in the health sector. He said, “We have the strike baton by the resident doctors actively supported by the Nigerian Medical Association and we held certain meetings at which we reached some agreements in a conciliation. “I had to brief the President ahead of the efforts we are making in those areas, like we agreed that the hazard allowance should be reviewed. And as a matter of fact, before they embarked on the strike, my ministry and the Presidential Committee on Salaries had initiated what we can call a pre-emptive arrangement to make for further discussion by all the stakeholders; Federal Ministry of Health, Salary, Income and Wages Commission, the health unions, the NMA that is leading National Association of Resident Doctors, Association of Dental and Medical consultants, Association of General Duty Doctors, and others, while JOHESU will lead Nurses and Midwife Association, pharmacists, lab technologists, and other people working in the health sector under the big umbrella of Medical and Health Workers Union. “So, that meeting has kick-started. And we know from our initial meetings and the data we have, we have an idea of the amount of money that will be consumed or utilised to effect this change, which is going to be a permanent change, unlike what we had last year when we did a special COVID-19 allowance, which all of you know the government budgeted N20 billion for. “When we started the payment, it gulped a whopping N32 billion. So, we are working now to make the health workers feel that they are appreciated, and that the efforts are appreciated by government.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com