Spotify founder and CEO, Daniel Ek, has revealed why he intends to buy London-based football club, Arsenal, from its current American owners, Kroenke Sports & Entertainment. According to Ek, ownership of Arsenal would present a “tremendous opportunity to set a real ambition for the club to bring it back to its glory.” The 38-year-old Swedish entrepreneur made the revelation during an interview on Wednesday on the CNBC show, “Squawk on the Street”. “I want to establish trust with fans and I want to engage with fans again,” said Ek. He added: “I’ve secured the funds for it and I want to bring what I think is a very compelling offer to the owners. I hope they hear me out.” Reminded that Kroenke has said that the club isn’t up for sale, Ek affirms that he is prepared for “a long journey,” saying that “All I can do is prepare what I think is a very thoughtful offer and bring it to them and hope they hear me out.” Ek’s interest in buying the club comes in the middle of the club fanbase’s dissatisfaction with the club owner, Stan Kroenke. Last week Friday, Arsenal fans had gathered in protest outside the Emirates Stadium ahead of their Premier League game with Everton, demanding that Kroenke surrenders his ownership of the club. The protest was a reaction to the club owners signing up to the now nearly disbanded European Super League without first consulting the fans. Ek had tweeted earlier that he has been a lifelong Arsenal fan: “As a kid growing up, I’ve cheered for Arsenal as long as I can remember. If KSE would like to sell Arsenal I’d be happy to throw my hat in the ring.” Since announcing his interest to buy the club, Ek has teamed up with club legends, Thierry Henry, Dennis Bergkamp, and Patrick Vieira. The Guardian reports that Kroenke is will want at least £2 billion if he is to consider selling the club he has run since April 2011. Forbes estimated Ek’s net worth to be in the region of $4.8 billion (£3.4bn) in early 2021, with the Swedish entrepreneur amassing wealth through his popular music streaming service.