The Prime Minister of the Warri Kingdom in Delta State, Chief Ayiri Emami, denied his involvement and distanced himself from the invasion of the palace of the Olu of Warri in December, 2020, after he was quizzed on Friday by the Zone 5 Command of the Nigeria Police in Benin, Edo State. Following the demise of the immediate past Olu of Warri, Ogiame Ikenwoli, in December, 2020, the palace was reportedly invaded and the 400-year-old crown and symbol of the Itsekiri monarchy were declared missing. The demise of Ikenwoli had created a succession tussle which eventually produced Prince Tsola Emiko as the chosen Olu-elect (Omoba). The police had in their letter of invitation, with reference number CR3000/2N.5/X/AV/Vol/83/41 and dated Wednesday, April 21, 2021, said the questioning became imperative over the kingship crisis and the tension created The letter was titled, ‘Police Invitation Letter. Re: Case of burglary, stealing, and conduct likely to cause a breach of peace.’ Ayiri, who is the embattled Ologbotsere of Warri Kingdom, was questioned alongside another chief, Macgrey Richmond, for almost two hours at the zonal headquarters before they were allowed to leave at about 1:45pm. Ayiri told journalists in Benin after the questioning that he informed the police that he knew nothing about the invasion of the palace. He said, “I was invited based on the invasion of the Olu palace and I told them I know nothing about that because I was not in town when that incident happened. It is about that laid-down procedure, which is one of the reasons why I am here and I have told the police. The police have questioned me on that issue, what led to the invasion; I have answered that and other issues I can’t divulge. “I did not sign any undertaking; all they asked was who invaded the palace and that certain things are missing in the palace. They want to know the whereabouts of those things and I told them what I know. “I cannot say that I am in support or not of what is happening. We have laid-down rules and procedures that the Itsekiri normally follow. So, the issue has nothing to do with me. The person in question (Olu designate) is my brother; he is my friend, so I have no personal issues with him.” “Whatever we are doing as Itsekiri, there are laid down procedures and that is what I am trying to do so it is not that I am not in support of whatever they are doing. I am not the one that reported this issue here. They reported, I have been invited, I came here and I have made my statement so it is left for the police to act. I don’t have any issue with anybody, it is not about Ayiri; it is about the people of Warri kingdom, if they are happy, I am happy and that is why I am the custodian.” Speaking on his suspension, Emami said, “I don’t know where the ruling house derived that power from. I was summoned based on an edict. But you can’t take some part of the law and you want to do away with the other part so I don’t know where they derive their powers from. So, I won’t talk about my suspension. There are talks ongoing and all that I pray for is for peace to come back to my kingdom.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com