Mary Daniel, the 27-year-old amputee hawker, has received over N25m in donations from kind-hearted individuals from within and outside Nigeria. The single mother, who used to hawk bottled water in traffic in the Oshodi area of Lagos, is now set to have a new lease of life with plans to establish her business being finalised by a committee comprising a non-governmental organisation, Irede Foundation, a lawyer from the state Ministry of Justice and a social worker from the Ministry of Youth and Social Services. The Kogi-born woman had told our correspondent during her 27th birthday on Friday about her intention to establish a supermarket and employ two workers. Daniel’s status took a dramatic turnaround after her moving story was reported by Saturday PUNCH. For fear that she might fall prey to fraudsters due to huge donations pouring into her bank account, the Lagos State Government took over her welfare and put her in protective custody. On Wednesday, the Special Adviser to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Civic Engagement, Aderemi Adebowale, handed her over to a committee, including Irede Foundation and Onu (King) of Igala in Lagos, Mr Sanni Yakubu, to assist her in setting up a business. The handing over was done in the presence of a senior police officer who represented the Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu. Adebowale said, “When Mary Daniel came here on April 13, for safety and security because of the donations she got, she had over N14m in her account. But today (Wednesday), she has over N25m. We still want to protect her even though she is not from this state. Today, Civic Engagement has handed her over to a special worker in the Ministry of Youth and Social Services, a lawyer in the Ministry of Justice and an NGO, the Irede Foundation.” The SA stated that Daniel would be residing with Yakubu until she gets her own accommodation and starts a business. She added, “We have protected her and handed her over to people that will help her plan her life going forward.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com