A 24-year-old former Nigerian beauty queen, Najeebat Sule, has been found shot dead inside her car parked close to her residence at 8800 block of Frankford Avenue on March 12, Daily Mail reports. Nearly three weeks later, police have not found a motive and have made no arrests, leaving Sule’s family and friends searching for answers. ‘I can’t think of anything that would make anyone want to kill her,’ Sule’s close friend Habibat Magaji, told the Philadelphia Inquirer. READ ALSO: The anti-corruption fight starring Tinubu and Ganduje Magaji was among the last people to have seen Sule alive before she was gunned down. The two women had spent the night before at Magaji’s home, eating snacks and watching Netflix together. Less than 24 hours later, Sule was sitting in her grey Toyota Corolla, exchanging text messages with Magaji, when an unidentified man walked up to the vehicle with a gun drawn and shot her several times. Sule’s father, Adewale Sule, heard the gunfire and emerged from the house just in time to see the suspect fire the last of the shots at his daughter. ‘I saw the guy shooting my daughter. He shot the last round and I pursued him,’ said the father. ‘He ran back to his car.’ YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: NAF fighter jet loses radar contact in Borno, whereabouts unknown Najeet was rushed to Jefferson Torresdale Hospital, where she was pronounced dead about 30 minutes later. Her mother, Tawakalitu Sule, said she last heard from Najeet less than two hours before the shooting when her daughter asked her when she was going to be home. ‘All of my children have been crying every day because of their big sister. They really miss her. I miss my daughter,’ she said. Najeet is survived by her parents and two sisters. ‘She was very talented, smart and funny,’ one of her siblings told 6abc. The family are currently staying at an undisclosed location over unspecified concerns for their safety. Sule and her family immigrated to Philadelphia from their native Nigeria in the early 2000s. Sule had only recently earned a Master’s degree in public health from West Chester University and was pursuing a doctorate. READ ALSO: UK expresses concern over insecurity in Nigeria In 2019, she was crowned a second runner-up at the Miss Nigeria International pageant. ‘Queen Najibat was an amazing young lady whose presence at the Miss Nigerian beauty pageant left a great ripple that continues to resonate,’ pageant organisers wrote on Facebook. ‘She was a breath of fresh air and her presence added a distinct touch that made the event memorable. She carried herself with great dignity and grace and her strength of character and approachability made her such a joy to work with.’