As the online advertising industry counts down to the total extinction of third-party cookies, online advertisers and digital marketers have been urged to start testing new solutions. This was a consensus call at a webinar organised by Terragon Limited in conjunction with Facebook attended by industry leaders and practitioners from fast-moving consumer goods, telcos, banks and e-commerce brands across Africa. Speaking during the webinar, a marketing strategy and tech consultant at PwC, Chris Humphery, said that brands must invest in data and technology to prepare adequately for the post-cookie world. “To test and learn is not to move fast and fail; it is about moving fast and building things. It is understanding what data and technology can expand into the marketing technology space and potentially add to drive through the greater ability to execution,” he said. Likewise, Head Digital Marketing, Africa, at PZ Cussons, Dayo Adefila, advised against a fire-brigade approach to online advertising in a post-cookie world. He encouraged attendees to take advantage of Facebook’s Conversions API and look at the right Customer Data Platform, also noting that Terragon had one customised for Africa with mobile reach. Acknowledging the potential disruptions to online advertising that the extinction of third-party cookies would cause, the speakers called for re-strategising and investment in customer data. Humphrey said, “What advertisers really need to do is to rethink their approach to customer data. Ultimately, by doing that, they will reduce their reliance on the third-party cookies.” “The role of a CDP will become very important in a post-cookie world and particularly API into each of the Walled Gardens. The challenge that we as advertisers will have is getting the level of data back from those Walled Gardens.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com