The Nigeria Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative and the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission have established a joint cooperation arrangement on anti-corruption issues in the extractive industries. Under the joint cooperation arrangement, the ICPC would set up a special extractive industry desk, while NEITI would feed the desk with information and data on extractive industry revenue process abuses, lapses and corruption issues. These were part of the resolutions reached at a meeting of the two organisations led by the Executive Secretary of NEITI, Orji Ogbonnaya-Orji and the Chairman of ICPC, Bolaji Owasanoye. Ogbonnaya-Orji, in a statement issued in Abuja on Wednesday by the Head, Communications and Advocacy, NEITI, Obiageli Onuorah, said the joint cooperation arrangement had become necessary. He said the partnership would strengthen NEITI’s capacity to hold accountable, entities that fail to address issues or respond positively and timely to remedial issues contained in NEITI reports. He welcomed the offer by ICPC to support NEITI operations with enforcements to ensure adequate sanctions and consequences on erring firms for financial misconduct in the extractive industries. On his part, Owasanoye commended NEITI’s initiative to seek partnership and collaboration in areas where NEITI required support. “I pledge the support of the commission under this joint cooperation arrangement. We will offer our support in the areas of investigation and prosecution which we consider important steps towards checking corruption in the oil, gas and mining sectors,” he said. The ICPC boss expressed satisfaction with the job of NEITI, especially in collaborating with the National Assembly and leading civil society advocacy actors for the early passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com