The Abia State Police Command has confirmed the assassination of a retired nurse with the Federal Medical Centre, Umuahia, Mrs Queeneth Alozie. The victim was killed last Sunday in Umuahia. According to the command’s Public Relations Officer, Jeoffrey Ogbonna, investigation is on to unravel the circumstances that led to the death of the widow. Until her death, Queeneth was the widow of one Dr Alozie from Umuda Isingwu, who owned the Obioma Hospital in Umuahia, which she took over the management of before her untimely death. Queeneth retired in 2005 and was living alone in Umuahia as her children reside outside the country. According to a neighbour, she recently engaged a second gateman allegedly from her hometown of Mbaise, Imo State, just like the former gateman. On Sunday, the older gateman was to attend a church service and asked the new one to take over until he would come back. According to the older gateman, he came back from church and knocked on the gate several times, but there was no response. “I called his (the new gateman’s) phone number several times and his line was switched off. I then called that of my madam, but there was also no response,” he said. He added that he became worried and along with neighbours, broke open the gate and went in through the back door, only to see the woman lying in her own pool of blood and with a wound on the head that appeared as if she was cut with an axe. As of the time of this report, the whereabouts of the second gateman had yet to be ascertained. Meanwhile, members of the National Association of Nigerian Nurses and Midwives, Abia State Council, on Tuesday, staged a peaceful demonstration in Umuahia over Queeneth’s killing. The Chairman of the council, Ugochi Akoma, described the killing as dastardly and called on the authorities to fish out her killers without delay, wondering why nurses, who were trained to protect lives, should be victims of cruel murderers. “We cannot figure out why a health care professional should be brutally attacked and killed in cold blood in her house. This is totally a barbaric act by hoodlums and the men of the underworld,” she stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com