The Federal Government on Saturday expressed concern over the prevalence of cerebrospinal meningitis in Nigeria, with about 20, 574 cases recorded between 2016 and 2020. It said Africa had over 50 per cent of the burden of infection across the globe and called for a concerted effort to realise the 2030 global target to wipe out the disease. The government also called on Nigerians to ensure ventilation in their homes, avoid overcrowded places, maintain good respiratory and nutrition hygiene, drink water and rest to increase their immunity against any form of infection, including meningitis. The Director (Special Duties and Technical Lead) for the National Cerebrospinal Meningitis Technical Working Group of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, Dr Priscilla Ibekwe, stated these in in Abuja after a long walk organised by NCDC in commemoration of the 2021 World Meningitis Day, with the theme, ‘Take action, defeat meningitis.’ Ibekwe said, “In Nigeria, in 2016/2017, there was a massive outbreak – over 14,542 people were affected, and nearly 1,200 deaths – and that is unacceptable. Through the work of the technical working group and a lot of effort at the state level, as we raised awareness about meningitis, people started trying to prevent it and get quickly to a hospital. “In 2017/2018, we had about 3,500 people with meningitis, and those numbers are beginning to fall. In 2018/2019, we had about 1,532 people that were affected. Last year it was less than 1,000. And we are hoping that we will continue to make concerted efforts across the country. “We have nine years to go to make sure we kick out meningitis globally, especially in Africa because we know that the global burden of meningitis, over 50 per cent of it is in Africa alone.” According to her, although there was under-reporting of some diseases, practising social distancing and avoiding crowded environments, would have contributed to the real reductions in Nigeria, which has now put meningitis A vaccine in routine care. Ibekwe said through the campaign of putting meningitis A vaccine in routine care, a lot of awareness had been raised, adding, however, that the country should not go to sleep. She said, “One death from meningitis is a death too many, if we can prevent it. The sad thing about meningitis is that it is a race against time. Fifty per cent of people who have meningitis will die if untreated. Even when treated, 10 to 20 per cent of them will have after effects such as deafness, loss of sight, loss of limbs, difficulty in concentrating, difficulty in learning, etc., and these are long-term. It affects the family, the child’s education. And when this child becomes an adult, what is his productivity? “We want to develop comprehensive services in health, linked up to the education sector, social service and other sectors, to ensure that we get great support around a survival of meningitis. The cost of disability is so high, and the cost of the unproductivity or low productivity, both for the family and the affected, is high. That is why as a whole community, both in health and outside health, we must come together to defeat meningitis in Nigeria.” The Head of Risk Communication, NCDC, Dr Yahaya Disu, said meningitis is still endemic because those affected by the disease do not understand the roles they need to play. Disu added, “We must engage the policy makers because there are things that are within the control of the people, and there are things that are outside their control.” Issues of hand hygiene and other things are personal things that people need to do, but when it comes to vaccination – making it available, accessible, and making sure that the vaccine is available in a form that is efficacious, this is the role of policy makers. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com