This past year, 2020, traders on Prestmit were said to have experienced an all-time high rate on gift cards. This represents a higher increase in its general rates amongst other gift card trading platforms. The rates of gift cards experienced stability for well over the year and despite the fluctuation of gift card rates in 2020, rates on Prestmit remained relatively high when compared with other platforms. The great rates on Prestmit has been remarkable — or insane, if that sounds better. But there’s some logic to this: Traders are settling for platforms that offer security, stability, and of course, good rates. That makes Prestmit, comparatively, an attractive trading platform. It is pertinent to know that rates offered in the gift card market are dependent on the value of the card at the moment. As cards surge in value, CEO of Prestmit, one of the most prominent exchanges, has signaled its intent to go public. “One of the biggest issues confronting gift card buyers is buying and selling at shoddy rates. Prestmit was founded on the premise of solving this problem of bad rates for traders. Our vision is to make users sell gift cards in Nigeria at best rates.” He said. He also highlighted Prestmit’s projected staying power in the gift card markets. “Gift cards’ best days are ahead of it, no matter how volatile the rates would be. We are up to the task and our vision to give nothing short of the best, is our driving force.” He also said. Prestmit is a cryptocurrency and gift card exchange that was recently founded. It is a simple, safe, and secure platform that provides alternative solutions through the use of digital currencies and gift cards. This, it intends to achieve, with the multiple services it provides and an experienced team that works tirelessly to ensure customers are happy. You can buy and sell more than 20 gift cards on Prestmit including: Walmart Gift Card, eBay Gift Card, Apple Store Gift Card, Amazon Gift Card, Google Play Gift Card, iTunes Gift Card, Sephora Gift Card, Vanilla Gift Card, Target Gift Card E.T.C To buy or sell gift cards on Prestmit is easy, you only have to create account and follow the simple procedures that come after.