Sunday Aborisade, Abuja The Senator representing Ogun West Senatorial District in the National Assembly, Tolu Odebiyi, has asked the Federal Government, military, and the police authorities to probe the alleged harassment of his constituents by soldiers and Fulani herdsmen. There were media reports on Saturday that Fulani herdsmen allegedly engaged the services of some soldiers to beat up farmers in some communities in Yewa land in Ogun State, for stopping their cattle from grazing over their farmland. The report added that many farmers and their family members were thoroughly beaten and wounded by the soldiers during the unfortunate invasion. Odebiyi, in a statement by his media office on Saturday, therefore, demanded that a thorough investigation be carried out on the matter without further delay. The Senator also lamented the incessant cases of harassment, brutalization, and maiming traceable to herders in Yewa land. He said, “It is morally wrong to allow herders to graze on people’s farms unchecked, to the point that law-abiding citizens are rendered hapless. “This sends a dangerous sign, in addition to undermining the credibility of the government.” The Senator specifically called on the Brigade Commander of the 35 Artillery Brigade, Alamala, Abeokuta, and the Commissioner of Police, Ogun State Command, to urgently look into the matter. Odebiyi said a thorough investigation was necessary “in order to stop the inimical, unpleasant and nasty situation reverberating around the Yewa villages” He listed villages where the herdsmen constantly harassed to include, Ateru, Moro, Ologun, Agbon, Igbota, Ogunba-Aiyetoro, Oke-Odo, Ibore, Gbokoto, Iselu, Ijale, Ohunbe, Igbeme, Owode-Ketu, Igan-Alade, Lashilo, Oja Odan, Ateru, Moro, Ologun, Iyana Meta, Igbooro, Egbeda, and Kuse. Odebiyi noted that residents of the Ogun West Senatorial District have gone through a lot of trauma in the hands of the military and other strike forces. He added that it was the responsibility of the Military and the Police to protect the lives and property of the citizenry and bring peace to the polity.