Tunde Oyekola Ilorin Executive committee members of the Kwara State Caretaker Committee of the All Progressives Congress, on Monday, rejected the purported sack of Bashir Bolarinwa, as chairman. The Mai-Mala Buni-led National Caretaker Committee of the APC, had appointed the former state deputy chairman, Abdullahi Samari, as Bolarinwa’s replacement. Members of the state executive alleged that a letter of appointment being paraded by Samari, on the social media, did not emanate from the APC National Secretariat, in Abuja. Addressing a press conference in Ilorin, Kwara state, the caretaker Vice Chairman, Theophilous Oyebiyi, while declaring their loyalty to Bolarinwa said, “Hon Bolarinwa who led the party to100 per cent victory in the last general elections deserves to be celebrated and greatly rewarded. He remains our state chairman. All of us had the equanimity of mind and character to work together for victory at that time… why not now?” He further said, “As erstwhile (members of the) exco, we are not aware of any wrongdoing that would have warranted any enquiry, let alone investigation and a far-reaching decision of suspending Hon Bolarinwa as the state chairman. “Hon Bolarinwa presided over our last three working committee meetings of which all members attended on 16th, 30th November 2020 and December 7th, 2020. All records of those meetings are available. Where and when did the suspension take place when the NEC decision was on 8th December?” He explained that it would be unfortunate for the national leadership of the party to act on Bolarinwa’s purported suspension without proper investigation. Oyebiyi said, “As progressives and members of a party that prides itself as respecter of the rule of law, it should be expected that we carry out due diligence at all times, respect our constitution, follow our rules and be above board in dealing with all our party’s affairs.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   