Dele Ogunyemi, Warri The ever-busy East-West Road was shut down at the Agbarho end in Delta State on Thursday as hundreds of angry youths rejected the appointment of a sole administrator for the Niger Delta Development Commission by the Federal Government. They called for the immediate appointment of a substantive board for the NDDC. Consequently, motorists plying the route were subjected to hard times following the resultant gridlock. The youth protesters, under the auspices of Urhobo Youths Leaders Council (UYLC)’, displayed placards with inscriptions such as ‘Urhobo youths are angry,’ ‘President Buhari, obey the NDDC Act by appointing a substantive board,’ and ‘Urhobo youths are in support of the forensic audit, but appoint a board for the commission,’ among others. The protesters issued a 20-day ultimatum to the Presidency to appoint a substantive board for the NDDC. Addressing journalists on behalf of the protesters, the coordinator, Lucky Emonefe, called on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to ensure that whoever is implicated in the forensic audit was dealt with according to the law. He said, “Those, who are corrupt, must face the consequences of their actions. But the President should obey the law, especially Section 2 establishing the NDDC by inaugurating a substantive board. “As youths of Niger Delta, we reject the sole administrator appointed by Mr President. We are not interested in who is on the Board. But what we want is that Delta State representatives, Ondo State representative and Bayelsa State representative should be there. Not that only one man from Akwa-Ibom should oversee the affairs of the Niger Delta.” Emonefe said the youth planned to mobilise massively to the Villa to press home their demand.
“We are giving the Federal Government a 21-day ultimatum, if they refuse to obey us, we are going to the Villa,” he added. Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com