Sodiq Oyeleke The Peoples Democratic Party had said the allegations by the Presidency, that certain Nigerians, particularly the elite, are waging a smear campaign against the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), shows that the Buhari regime “is being haunted by the shadows of its own failures”. The PDP in a statement titled ‘Smear campaign: Nobody but your failures are after you, PDP Mocks Buhari Presidency’, by its spokesperson, Kola Ologbondiyan, advised Buhari to stop his “new-found pleading with Nigerians to award him an unmerited pass mark”. The PUNCH reports that the Presidency had on Friday raised the alarm over what it called planned orchestrated smear campaign against Buhari, using some online newspapers and blogs. The Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, made the claim in a statement titled “Unrelenting plot to wage smear campaign against President Buhari.” The fresh alarm is Adesina’s second in about one month having issued a similar statement in December 2020 in which he alleged plan to smear the image of the President and portray him as not being in charge of the affairs of the government. But PDP warned the presidency to stop assaulting the sensibilities of Nigerians and stop blaming elite for Buhari’s failure. Part of the statement read, “It is clear that the Buhari-led APC administration is plagued by all-round failure in governance. If indeed it has any record of success in any sector, Mr. President would not be begging Nigerians, even in his home state, Katsina and among his party members, to award him a pass mark. “It is rather appalling that instead of facing reality, the Buhari Presidency is threatening Nigerians and overheating the polity will allegations of plots to wage a “smear campaign” against President Buhari in unnamed online newspapers. “Such allegation is only symptomatic of a failed administration that is looking for who to blame for its woes. This is more so as any fair appraisal of the Buhari-led APC will only present a litany of failures and woes “We however hope that this allegation is not a ploy for a renewed clampdown on the media and dissenting voices, particularly those now arising among well-meaning APC leaders, who are completely disenchanted by the incompetence and corruption inherent in their party and its administration. “In any case, President Buhari and his APC should know that Nigerians have moved on and cannot be swayed again by false performance claims and unfounded propaganda.”