Bola Bamigbola A group, World Institute for Peace, on Saturday told investigators working to unravel the circumstances surrounding the death of one Corporal Rauf Fawale, after an alleged attack by three men of the Department of State Services in Osogbo on Thursday, January 24, to identify patrons at the bar where the attack took place. The group said doing so would enable them get to the root of the matter, as reliance on only video evidence that could be tampered with might not be enough. Fawale, who sustained a head injury in the attack later died at a private hospital in Oke Fia, Osogbo, on Sunday, January 24, while being treated. A statement by the Executive Chairman of the group, Mr Lamina Omotoyosi, said people would expect a definite closure of the matter, saying unless such was achieved the confidence in the security operatives would be adversely affected. The statement read in part, “Investigators probing the attack and the eventual death of one Corporal Fawale, a policeman attached to Estate Police Division, Osogbo, are advised to ensure that they identify some of the patrons of the bar where the fight broke out and extract relevant information from them. “We have it on a good authority that apart from the said police officer called Modi that had a birthday bash at the bar on the day the incident happened, a popular car dealer that has a car mart near the bar was also said to have had a birthday party at the same bar on the day of the incident. “We believe that eyewitness accounts will assist both the police and the DSS in getting to the root of the matter. Relying only on video evidence which could be tampered with may not be enough. We believe that by now, some of those present at the vicinity of the attack ought to have been identified. “The manner both security agencies (police and DSS) handle this will tell on how serious they are about keeping the residents of the state secured.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   