Dennis Naku, Port Harcourt The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps said they smashed an illegal dump used in storing and transporting adulterated petroleum products at the Rumuomasi axis of Port Harcourt, Rivers State. The NSCDC said a total of 119 gallons of adulterated Automated Gas Oil was seized, while two suspects were arrested in connection with the crime during the raid. The Corps spokesman, Rivers State command, Oguntuase Michael, disclosed this shortly after conducting journalists round the site located at 34 Arochukwu Street, Rumumasi in Port Harcourt, Rivers State capital. “Two days ago, through our intelligence, we were able to discover this particular dump established here in a residential area. It is not acceptable because the products themselves are hazardous. We discovered 119 gallons filled with AGO which is popularly known as diesel. A suspect was arrested with a vehicle. “The landlord of this place is being interrogated to know the level of his involvement with this particular crime, as well as the driver of the vehicle that was arrested. Michael said the feat was achieved following a special taskforce set up by the State Commandant, Muktar Lawal, to identify illegal dumps across the state, describing the illicit act as a waiting disaster that was averted. Giving the breakdown of the seized items, he said, “At about 1500hrs of Tuesday, 19th January, 2021, the Anti vandal team of the Command arrested a suspect by name Mr. Ezike Shoke with a Volkswagen Jetta car loaded with suspected illegally refined Automated Gas Oil (AGO) popularly known as diesel loaded in gallons (25liters), fifty six (56). “Other items seized at the crime scene include 57 empty gallons found at the crime scene. There has been some cases of fire outbreak here and there as a result of the usage of the adulterated or illegally refined kerosene.” “What you are witnessing today is the outcome of that particular team set up by the State Commandant. Investigation is ongoing to arrest all those connected to the dastardly act and charge them to court for possible prosecution,” he stated.