Tukur Muntari, Kano The Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, has appealed to the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development to approve at least 2,000 beneficiaries for the Government Enterprise Empowerment Programme. “Kano, having the highest population in the country, needs additional 88,000 beneficiaries to access the trader moni, market moni and farmer moni loans in the next round of the programme,” he said. Ganduje, who was represented by the Deputy Governor, Dr Nasiru Gawuna, made the call on Monday while flagging off the disbursement of cash grants for the rural women programme at the Kano Government House. While pointing out that Kano State had over 200,000 registered applicants of N-power, the highest in the country, he appealed to the minister to use her good offices in fast tracking the enrolment process. He appreciated the enrolment of additional 35,000 beneficiaries on Conditional Cash Transfer from 15 local government areas of the state. The governor also appealed for the immediate approval of the remaining 35,000 beneficiaries. The Minister Of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Hajiya Sadiya Faruk, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Alhaji Bashir Alkali, said a cash grant of N20,000 each would be disbursed to about 125,000 poor and vulnerable women across the country. She said the programme was introduced last year to sustain the social inclusion agenda of the President Muhammad Buhari’s administration. “Our target in Kano State is to disburse the grant to over 8,000 beneficiaries across the 44 LGAs. The grant is expected to increase income and productive assets of target beneficiaries,” she added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com