Dayo Ojerinde A former Minister of Education, Mrs Oby Ezekwesili, has called for a paradigm shift in Nigeria’s leadership and political system. Ezekwesili, at the inauguration of the School of Policy, Politics and Governance held virtually on Thursday, advocated a change in the way the country is governed. She said, “We are trying to change the paradigm; this is a leadership preparation system. The political class in Africa has a dominant political culture that subordinates the common good of society to the personal and narrow interest of those who have the opportunity to lead and that is what we are trying to change. “We have a programme design that is 60 to 70 per cent online digital learning management system. However, some of the programmes in the school’s curriculum will be delivered in person. Some of the courses will require a classroom setting.” The acting Director-General of the school, Dr Alero Ayida-Otobo, said the SPPG was one of the three pillars of the #FixPolitics initiative. “Research suggests that central to this continental underperformance is politics, specifically a culture of leadership that inherently subverts the public good by elevating personal and parochial interests above the collective wellbeing of citizens. “As such, the SPPG is integral to the fulfilment of the #FixPolitics mission to elevate the office of citizens to its rightful place in our nation and develop a political class of servant leaders,” she said. The Executive Director of the #FixPolitics initiative, Mr Anthony Ubani, the school was birthed to serve as a massive base and pipeline producing a new and disruptive thinking political class who will listen and serve the new class of citizens who know their rights. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 