Hindi Livinus, Yola Former Governor Bala Ngillari, and Senator Elisha Abbo representing Adamawa Northern Senatorial District, who defected to the All Progressive Congress from the Peoples Democratic Party, said they joined the APC to end the reign of Governor Ahmadu Fintiri. The duo who spoke separately over the weekend at a formal reception organised by APC to officially welcome them into the APC said they were desperate to sack governor Fintiri from power come 2023. Ngillari said he left the PDP because it was a dying party. The former governor who defected to the APC in December 2020 was the PDP’s Adamawa North Senatorial candidate at the 2019 general election. He said, ”One of the reasons why I dumped PDP for APC is that PDP is a dying party. In fact, PDP is dead and it will be buried in 2023. But it was Senator Abbo who spoke more roughly and went tough on Governor Fintiri. He said he’s joining the APC to take back power from those who got to power with propaganda and divisive rhetorics of religion and ethnicity. He said, “We are after the interest of Adamawa state pure and simple. We are not desperate about power, but we are desperate about one thing, and we will do it, nothing on earth will save him.” He noted that in 2019 the people made a mistake that should never be allowed to repeat itself again in 2023. Abbo who warned security agencies in the state especially the police to stay away from partisan politics warned that anything short of that, the APC would mobilize its youth to meet them on the streets. He said, “Somebody in APC must be governor in 2023. 2019 We made a mistake. 2023 we will not repeat another mistake. I want them to know we would meet them with our youths on the street man to man. Bone to bone.” Advising security operatives, he said, “Don’t join politics more especially the DPO’s at the local government level. You are not answerable to the local government chairmen you are answerable to the commissioner of police. And the commissioner is answerable to the IGP.”