Dayo Ojerinde The Healthcare Federation of Nigeria has appealed to the Federal Government to consider harnessing the   expertise and resources within the Nigerian private sector to ensure a successful rollout of COVID-19 vaccines. The president of HFN, Dr. Pamela Ajayi, in a statement on Tuesday, urged the government to consider the benefits of private sector participation in the task of getting COVID-19 vaccine to the millions of Nigerians that need it. She said, “Private sector involvement can help ensure smooth and effective procurement and rollout of the vaccines while reducing the cost to the government. “HFN was instrumental in providing critical support during the first phase of the pandemic in mobilising the private sector response which led to the setup of isolation centers, increasing access to PCR testing and supporting state responses. “We are currently organising a private sector roundtable, bringing both the private health care and private sectors together and our members have pledged their commitment to supporting the Federal and State governments in fighting the pandemic.” Ajayi applauded the efforts of the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control in its initial response to the outbreak of the virus and the critical role of the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency in ensuring that the vaccines are prioritised and distributed to those who need it the most including the frontline workers. “The Healthcare Federation of Nigeria and its coalition of partners are poised to assist the various government agencies and public sector apparatus by providing a coordinated private sector response that works in concert to curtail, contain and terminate the effect of the coronavirus in Nigeria,” she said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  