Kayode Oyero Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, on Friday, appreciated the people of the state for their support during his second-term election travails last year. He said by voting him in for a second-term in office during the September 19, 2020 Governorship Election, the residents of the state showed that power truly belongs to the people and that they have the authority to choose their governor. Obaseki stated this in his 2021 New Year address on Friday. He said, “In the midst of the gloom and despair, there was a silver lining for us in Edo State with the conduct of the September 19 governorship election, which against all predictions, turned out to be peaceful, credible and a watershed moment for our democracy as a nation. “With the election, the people of Edo State demonstrated that power truly belongs to the people and that only the people have the right and authority to choose who should govern them. By this action, you inspired us and gave us hope to forge ahead and continue to chart our cause as a people desirous of change, progress and shared prosperity. “Today, you, my people, can confidently say that you have put your own government in power. We must therefore now come together to ensure the success of this government. Your Government can only succeed when we all play our role by fulfilling our own obligations, particularly by paying our taxes. It is only by paying your taxes that government can raise the required funds and resources to finance development projects.” READ ALSO: Many may never recover from harsh effects of 2020 –Olukoya The PUNCH had earlier reported that the governor, who was elected on the platform of the All Progressives Congress in 2016, was denied the party’s ticket for a second term due to intra-party wrangling. He later defected to the Peoples Democratic Party and defeated Osagie Ize-Iyamu, the APC candidate and the anointed candidate of political heavyweights like Bola Tinubu and Adams Oshiomhole in the 2020 Edo State Governorship Election.