Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti Lagos lawyer Femi Falana’s wife, Mrs Funmi Falana, on Sunday said the president, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and the 36 state governors should resign from office if they were helpless on the insecurity in the country. Falana, who is also a human rights activists, said governments had failed on security and something needed to be done, lamenting that “Nigerians are afraid to go out, Nigerians fear for their lives, they are afraid for their security. It is very sad. Nobody ever envisaged that Nigeria will get to a situation like this.” The human rights lawyer, who spoke in Iyin Ekiti, Ekiti State, during her yearly New Year celebration with motherless children, called on states yet to domesticate the Child’s Right Law to do so. She said, “There is the need to do something about the security of the citizens. A government that is unable to guarantee the security of the citizens is a failed government, so if they cannot protect the Nigerian people, the governments have failed. READ ALSO: Kogi gunmen kill Saudi-based oil expert after ordering last prayer “We are using this opportunity to remind them that it is the constitutional responsibility of the government under Chapter Two of the constitution to provide security for the people. It is as if they are helpless, if they are helpless, let them resign and let us know that we don’t have government,” Falana said. Falana said that her yearly celebration with the children “is our way of giving back to the needy in the society because these people really need the expression of our love and also to let them know that they are important in the society.” The matron of the children’s home, Mrs Olayinka Ajayi, said Falana’s contributions in the last few years had made significant impact in the lives of the children. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 