Tofarati Ige Abiola Ahmed, the Chief Executive Officer of a fast growing beauty company, Hush’D Makeover Limited, has said that contrary to what is common among some persons, her brand helps people to feel comfortable in their skin, and not to change their complexion. Ahmed spoke during the week at an event to unveil the company’s newest brand ambassador, Adeola Adeyemi, popularly known as Diiadem. Adeyemi, who is a popular Instagram personality, described the partnership as one that would be beneficial to all parties involved. Speaking on why Diiadem was chosen to represent the company, Ahmed said, “Our brand is a physical representation of being comfortable with one’s complexion, and letting people know the importance of wellness. Over the years, we have come to realise that majority of our clients base are females, so we decided to sign someone that can represent our brand comfortably to the intended demography. Some of the things that got us attracted to Diiadem were her keen interest in skincare, her style of communication with the public, her poise, brand identity and her complexion. “Our brand is unique in every way.  We are a wholly Nigerian organic skincare brand, and our products and services are affordable, even for students especially our newly launched products.” On her part, Diiadem noted that she was excited to work with the company. She said, “I am looking forward to having a great relationship with Hush’D Makeover. I like organic products and that’s what they do. Also, I always encourage people not to be ashamed of whatever skin colour they have but to ‘rock’ it with confidence.” Advising people to take care of their skin, Ahmed added, “My primary goal is to make men and women feel beautiful and comfortable in their own skin. And the first step towards feeling great about one’s skin is by taking care of it. Over the years, we have developed a couple of amazing products, which give our customers a feeling of pride in their skin.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 