THE discomfiting reality of Nigeria’s emergent food crisis was poignantly brought home recently by the Chairman of the Presidential Economic Advisory Council, Doyin Salami. He revealed during the National Economic Outlook for 2021 organised by the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria that the country spent a whopping N1.85 trillion to import food for nine months during the closure of its land borders. Salami blamed the flooding that ravaged parts of the country in 2019 as the critical factor responsible for the development, noting that “climatic concerns are undermining agricultural output with 2.5 million farmers being impacted by flooding in 2019.” Between April and September 2019, the West Africa Network for Peacebuilding said flooding claimed cumulatively, the lives of 95 people (including 17 females and 31 children), 45 people were injured with an estimated 722,741 people displaced and 351,236 others in need of humanitarian assistance in Nigeria. Food crisis occurs when local production cannot meet domestic demand. It is every nation’s worst nightmare. Given the established nexus between food security and national security, this is a very worrying but avoidable scenario, underscoring the inability of the country to feed its 206 million people. The United Nations says, “Agriculture, including fisheries and forestry, remains a primary livelihood source for 86 per cent of the world’s rural population, providing jobs for an estimate of 1.3 billion smallholders and landless workers.” Sadly, in Nigeria, agriculture continues to decelerate, growing at 1.7 per cent year-to-date, while consumer-sensitive sectors like manufacturing and distribution continue to contract, in double digits, Salami lamented. Contrary to official claims, this disclosure particularly laid bare the inefficacy of the border closure policy of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Citing economic losses and illegal arms/drugs trade, Nigeria had abruptly shut its land borders with the Benin Republic in August 2019. Not satisfied with the outcome, it extended the ban to the land trade with all its other neighbours in October, a tactic that reverberated around the sub-region. Additionally, it prohibited fuel supply to petrol filling stations within 20-kilometre radius of its borders. However, in December 2020, the President ordered the reopening of the country’s land borders in Seme, Illela, Maigatari, and Mfun, following strident criticism from stakeholders. In particular, the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria deemed it “a negation of the Africa Continental Free Trade Agreement’s liberalisation agenda,” which Nigeria had ratified as a member-state. It surely calls for concern that, as Salami said, “Despite border closure, our national import of food amounted to N1.85 trillion between January and September 2020 – a 62 per cent increase when compared with the same period in 2019. This suggests a weakness in our ability to feed ourselves and raises the need to consider review of intervention policies in agriculture.” With COVID-19 pandemic, Islamist terrorism and murderous Fulani herders ravaging the land and spilling blood, all  the signs point to a significant fall in domestic agricultural output.  It is trite that a nation that cannot feed itself will not be able to undertake the more taxing job of securing its citizens and protecting itself from threats to its territorial integrity and/or exert any meaningful weight in the comity of nations. Nigeria’s case is despairing and pathetic and should be reversed. From 2016 to the first half of 2019, the National Bureau of Statistics estimated that the country spent N54.51 trillion importing manufactured goods, mostly food and agricultural goods. Within the period, agricultural goods import gulped N38.24 billion, while manufactured goods import gulped 19.51 billion. The effect of this on the value of the national currency and economy as a whole is telling. With the added security challenge, evidenced in seemingly endless Fulani herdsmen’s destruction of farmlands with their rampaging cattle, as well as killing of farmers in the South and North-Central, rural banditry and Boko Haram attacks in the farming communities in the North-West and North-East, the country is sadly walking the path of imminent hunger. It is inevitable therefore that agricultural production will suffer immeasurably, leading to recourse to greater food imports with dire consequences on a recessed economy. This demands an urgent action by the government at all levels. Data from the NBS and the Central Bank of Nigeria published in the International Journal of Economics, Commerce and Management indicated that Nigeria spent over N40 trillion on food imports in 21 years, between 1990 and 2011 to meet domestic consumption. This translates to food imports of an average of N1.92 trillion per year and N1 billion every day. The data further showed that the annual food import bill was in multiples of five times of export. This is unacceptable for a country blessed with a youthful population and endowed with huge cultivable land. Statistics showed that in the last four to five years, the agriculture sector’s contribution to GDP hovered between 22 and 25 per cent. In 2017, it hit an all-time low of 21 per cent contribution to GDP. It is also estimated that while American families spend only 16 per cent of their budget on food, their Nigerian counterparts spend 73 per cent of their budgets to eat. What is required is a combination of well-thought-out policy measures and pragmatic actions by the government to address the situation, especially at the subnational level. For one, the various governments should be more deliberate in implementing policies and programmes that will engender rural development to stem the rural-urban drift that has depleted the farming population in the rural areas. Life in the vast agrarian communities of the country is at best cruel and brutish with deplorable and inaccessible roads, lack of electricity and non-existent storage facilities. State governments should be challenged to the imperative of engendering rural development to give a fillip to agricultural productivity to stave off the looming food crisis. An expert at PwC, an audit and consultancy firm, Oladele Oladipupo, said the level of agricultural yield in the country owes largely to the absence of concentration on the agriculture value chain, despite Nigeria’s vast arable land. So far, only about 34 million hectares out of the 82 million hectares of the nation’s arable land, representing 41 per cent, are under cultivation. In all, there are 92 million hectares of land in the country. Also, state governments should provide incentives in the form of credit facilities and extension services to rural farmers to encourage investment in agriculture and prevent the COVID-19 pandemic from becoming a severe food crisis. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  