Dayo Ojerinde A Professor of Medical Laboratory Science, Prof. Dennis Agbonlahor, has warned Nigerians to continue to obey the COVID-19 guidelines to overcome the new strain of the virus in the country. Agbonlahor, who is also a fellow of the Nigerian Academy of Science, in an interview with our correspondent, said it was unfortunate that many Nigerians had abandoned the COVID-19 protocols. He noted that the recent rising of COVID-19 cases in the country may not be unconnected with the #EndSARS protest, adding that the crowd at the National Identify Number registration centres may worsen the situation. “Whether it is the old or new strain of the virus, it is human beings that will spread them. The old strain, for instance, will not be flying all over on its own. “If people do the right thing by maintaining social distancing at meetings, wash their hands with clean water and soap regularly and wear face masks in any gathering, then it becomes controlled. The basic thing is to maintain the basic COVID-19 protocols,” Agbonlahor said. The expert said many Nigerians had the wrong belief that the virus was no longer in the country. “When the #EndSARS protesters started then, didn’t they know there is COVID-19 in Nigeria? The upsurge we are experiencing now, this is the time for it to manifest. The old COVID-19 strain has been with us. When they were all over the place demonstrating and protesting, they were spreading the virus. Did they wear a face mask? It is the laboratory test that is revealing it now because immediately after the protest, they stopped testing, everybody was hiding his or her head. There were no materials for laboratory testing anymore and that is why everybody felt it was over. “They have spread it and more people have it and the NCDC have materials right now to increase all the laboratories testing. When you test, you have results and that is why we have many positive results after the #EndSARS protest together with those that were acquired in religious and social gatherings. “Everybody in Nigeria relaxed since August 2020; they thought it wasn’t there anymore, yet they have been spreading it. The new strains are few, it is the old ones we are detecting now. The new strain may have entered Nigeria from the United Kingdom because of people who are travelling into the country and refusing to be tested. We have a protocol for testing but they are not doing that, the crowd runs away and you don’t find them anymore. Those people are the ones bringing the new strain into the country,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com