Kayode Oyero The curtain falls on the Donald Trump presidency on Wednesday but the 45th President of the United States would be remembered for a number of things including his many firsts. Aside being the first US president to be impeached twice by Congress, Trump is perhaps also the first American president who did not touch on the African soil all through his administration. According to Wikipedia, Trump made a total of 39 trips to 25 countries during his administration but he never stepped into Africa. This is a sharp contrast from previous American presidents like Barack Obama, Bill Clinton, George Bush, amongst others, who visited more than two countries in the over 50 nations on the African continent during their administrations. Although Trump never hide his disinterest for Africa and its 1.2 billion inhabitants which is roughly 17 per cent of the world’s population, the Republican one-term US president met with some African leaders such as Nigeria’s Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) and his deputy, Yemi Osinbajo; Kenya’s President Uhuru Kenyatta, Rwanda’s Paul Kagame; Ghana’s Nana Akufo-Addo; and Guinea’s Alpha Condé. READ ALSO: Three burnt to death in Ogun tanker explosion Others are Cote d’Ivoire’s Alassane Ouattara; Senegal’s Macky Sall; Namibia’s Hage Geingob; South Africa’s Jacob Zuma; Zimbabwe’s Emmerson Mnangagwa; Ethiopia’s Hailemariam Desalegn; and Uganda’s Yoweri Museveni. While the outgoing US president met the other leaders on the sidelines of international events such as those hosted by the United Nations and the World Economic Forum, Nigeria’s Buhari was the first African leader to visit the White House during the Trump administration. Other African presidents who later visited Trump’s White House include Kenyatta; Libya’s Fayez al-Sarraj and Egypt’s Abdel Fattah el-Sisi. [ALSO READ] WTO: Biden won’t oppose Okonjo-Iweala’s candidacy, says Utomi The PUNCH had reported that Buhari said Trump told him some sizzling hot truths during the visit on April 30, 2018. Amongst other things, Trump would be remembered for his tough travel and economic sanctions on some African nations as he vacates the White House early Wednesday before the inauguration of Joe Biden as the 46th President of the United States. The 74-year-old is to start a new life in his Mar-a-Lago golf club residence in Palm Beach, Florida. [YOU MAY ALSO LIKE] School resumption: NUT meets Thursday over COVID-19 rules, partial compliance recorded He plans to employ a few of his loyal aides to work for him or his son-in-law Jared Kushner who will be spending time working with him after his presidency. However, Trump, who officially declared Florida as his home in 2019, may face resistance from neighbours who have already declared they do not want him there.