Ada Wodu, Calabar Two buildings, a bungalow and a storey building were demolished at the weekend in Calabar by security outfit ‘Operation Akpakwu’ following allegations that the owner of the bungalow was a suspected kidnapper, while the owner of the storey building allegedly used it as a brothel where underaged girls engaged in prostitution. The demolition of the bungalow took place at Ekorinim 1, while the demolished brothel was located off Odukpani Road opposite Flour Mill. Speaking after the exercise, Mr Henry Okokon, the State Security Adviser, Southern Senatorial District to Governor Ben Ayade, said, “The bungalow that was demolished belonged to an individual who had been caught in the act of kidnapping in the state, while the brothel was demolished for housing underage girls for prostitution and other illegal activities. “This is a warning signal to everybody. Whosoever is involved in a crime of any form should desist from it,” adding that the demolition was one of the ways of chasing criminals out of the state. According to him, the state government places a premium on the security of lives and property in the state, hence the need to fight all forms of criminality in the state. “This is part of the activities of Operation Akpakwu, a special force set up by Governor Ayade to fight crime in the state, especially kidnapping. “This demolition exercise is ongoing. The governor has warned that anyone who is involved in any form of criminality, or any landlord who is found harbouring any criminal should desist from it,” he said. Okokon urged business owners in the state to go about their normal businesses, adding that the state government was doing its best to protect them from criminals. Meanwhile, during the demolition of the alleged brothel, the wife of the owner, simply called Ijeoma, alleged that her husband paid varying sums of money ranging from N1m to N100,000 to security personnel who promised to spare the building from demolition. Ijeoma, who did not want to be quoted said if the officials knew they were going to destroy the building, why did they fleece her husband of the money he should have used for the upkeep of her five children after the demolition of the family’s source of livelihood. Security officials who monitored the exercise promised to investigate and take action against those who allegedly went behind to collect money from the owner of the property.