The Diocesan Bishop of Lagos, Anglican Communion, the Rt. Rev. Humphrey Olumakaiye has called on the Federal Government not to impose another lockdown in the country amid the second wave of the deadly coronavirus pandemic. The cleric, who lamented the negative impact of COVID-19 on businesses, families and socio-economic life of the citizens, stated this in his New Year message obtained on Thursday. He advised the government to evolve ways of mitigating hunger and poverty in the land rather than worsening the tense situation in the country. Olumakaiye said, “As the second wave of the COVID-19 is spreading, we strongly advise the government not to think of a second lockdown, but to rather look for better ways of maintaining the safety protocols till we recover from this pandemic. There is palpable anger in the land because of poverty. Many people have also lost fortunes this year due to the pandemic and several others vehemently doubt the reality of the virus. As such, to forestall avoidable protests that may be worse than the ENDSARS protests, the government should try to manage the situation in the best ways possible to enable the people to live their normal life.” He added, “One obvious and indisputable fact is that year 2020 was unprecedented in the lives of this generation. It came with lots of challenges globally and affected all aspects of human lives. In our nation, Nigeria, it was particularly biting as socialisation, which is a major lifestyle, became redefined. Jobs were lost and means of livelihood threatened as a result of biting recession. However, in the midst of the seeming tales of woes are positives that we must take with us into the year 2021. The bishop also called on political leaders to use their privileged position to render selfless service to struggling Nigerians in the New Year, noting that the country’s diversity should be its strength. “I call upon all in position of leadership starting with our President to realize that all powers belong to God; and those to whom He gives it to as a privilege, they should realize that it comes with responsibilities, as they will render a full account. I plead with them to stop all selfishness and embrace selflessness in order to get the approval of God and man. Power is very transient but the impact and effect on those on which it is wielded remains unforgettable whether it is for good or for bad. All men in leadership positions should strive to leave a lasting positive legacy.”