Wale Oyewale, Ibadan The Peoples Democratic Party in Oyo State has said that some opposition political parties in the state were behind the production of fake Amotekun Corps uniforms purportedly for hoodlums to disguise as personnel of the security outfit to cause violence in a bid to discredit Governor Seyi Makinde-led government. The PDP made the claims in a statement made available to journalists in Ibadan by its state Publicity Secretary, Akeem Olatunji, on Monday, in reaction to the Saturday’s arrest of some unauthorised tailors said to have been sewing fake Amotekun Corps uniforms. READ ALSO: Buhari shuns Senate, approves acting DG for NDE It read that some political enemies were out to blackmail the governor as nothing could have emboldened members of the public to venture into such criminal act without being backed by some forces. The statement added, “It was another great achievement for the state and the Amotekun Corps to have discovered and apprehended one of the agents of darkness in our dear state who have, perhaps, been recruited by the opposition in Oyo State to heighten insecurity and create an atmosphere of chaos. ALSO READ: Akeredolu orders herdsmen to vacate Ondo forest reserves “It is not a news anymore to residents of Oyo State that the Oyo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress has deployed all forms of evil machinations, treachery, and malicious propaganda against the PDP government under the leadership of Governor Seyi Makinde. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Nigerians pick ‘Aso Ebi’ for Biden/Harris inauguration However, the interim state Publicity Secretary of the APC, Dr Abdulazees Olatunde, in a reaction said, “We are out of mundane politics. Whoever gets in the way of the law should be made to pay. It is as simple as that. The allegation they are making is questionable and we want them to substantiate it. If care is not taken, we might take it legally. “No APC member sponsored anybody. We have no hand in the hoodlums activities. They brought in hoodlums and now they are facing the challenge. They brought insecurity to Oyo State when we governed the state for eight years peacefully. “What is our gain in the insecurity of Oyo Sate? We see it as a failure on his (Makinde’s) part because it is not good. It is only a bad craftsman who complains about his tools; they should rather look for how to solve their problem elsewhere. They are just playing propagandist politics.”