Olufemi Olaniyi, Ibadan Oyo State Governor, Mr Seyi Makinde, has said some foreigners without proper documentation are contributing to the rising insecurity in the state. The governor warned traditional rulers against allocating land to any foreigner without proper documentation in their domains, saying such would not be tolerated. Makinde, who said this in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Taiwo Adisa, stated that his administration would ensure that foreigners in the state were properly documented very soon. The governor had in December said fighters from Mali, a West African country, were making serious attempts to cross into the state from the Saki border. The statement read, “The governor equally warned traditional rulers and village heads against allocating lands to undocumented foreigners, stating that some undocumented individuals had been contributing to insecurity in the state. “So, we are going to provide some documentation for them. Those who work in the mining site will be documented and a task force is being set up to do this.” Makinde also said okada riders would be registered to be able to monitor them but threatened that their operations would be regulated if their leaders failed to get them registered. “But if they would not register their people, we will be left with no choice than to just regulate the hours in which they operate. So, I am hopeful that they will cooperate with us by getting their people registered,” he added. Speaking on the relationship between the police and Amotekun, the governor also said the state had observed that the relationship between the police and Amotekun was not cordial but said that this would be addressed to make the two work better. He said, “Amotekun is not operating in a vacuum. They are a creation of the law of the state. The Nigerian Police is a creation of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. It is normal that we have inter and intra agency friction where possible, but we will get everybody together and seek alignment towards the same end basically. He said some persons were out to discredit the good works of Amotekun but said such would not be allowed to stand. He, however, called on whoever had any genuine complaints against the security outfit to come forward, saying the state would look into such. He stated that the state would also not sit idly and watch any Amotekun corps operate outside the law but also said that the state would also not yield to blackmail against the new security outfit.