Dennis Naku, Port Harcourt The Bauchi State Governor, Senator Bala Mohammed on Monday commended the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, for the quality of road he inaugurated. The governor spoke during the inauguration of the 10.3km long Sime-Nonwa-Kira Road in the Tai Local Government Area (Ogoni community). Mohammed said, “When I see the quality of this road and the community where it is sited; in Ogoni land, traversing all these communities and the kind of good sermon given by the Local Government Chairman, and even the Commissioner of Works, I felt elated that I am a Nigerian. “This is so, because here is a Nigerian, a governor who have been able to deepen leadership, bringing people of capacity on board. Even using a local contractor to bring local content. “This is the kind of Nigeria we need tomorrow. People who can lead and bring people on board with quality and capacity.” Wike, in his address ,knocked his estranged former Commissioner for Chieftaincy and Community Affairs, Dr John Bazia . Wike accused Bazia of peddling falsehood by claiming that there were no development projects in Ogoni land. Wike said, “One of the former commissioners who took traditional rulers’ kola ;incidentally, he is from this local government area. He was telling people that there is no single project in the whole of Ogoni land. “But he is from this local government, you can see how people can tell lies simply because we did not bring him back (as commissioner). But we don’t want our kola to miss again. Those who cannot keep kola or give to those who own the kola, we cannot bring them back. “Look at this project; 10.3km, and look at the communities, how will anybody say that we have never done anything for the people of Tai? How would anybody say we have no presence in Ogoni land?” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com