Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa THE Deputy Governor of Bayelsa State, Mr Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, on Monday, frowned on the incessant threats of impeachment by councillors against local government council chairmen in the state. He said taking such actions without due process would only heat up the polity and create an atmosphere of political instability. READ ALSO: Herders’ registration begins, NGF, Miyetti Allah back Akeredolu’s order Ewhrudjakpo spoke during a parley with council chairmen and leaders of the legislative assemblies of the eight local government areas in the state at his office in Government House, Yenagoa. A press release by his Senior Special Assistant on Media, Mr Doubara Atasi, quoted the deputy governor as urging the councillors, particularly their leaders, to exhaust all avenues of dialogue and avoid confrontation as much as possible in their dealings with the other arms of government. ALSO READ: Disco disconnects Ex-President Shagari’s home over N6m debt He advised both chairmen and councillors to shun selfishness and put the interest of their councils and the state above personal considerations as they would all give account of their stewardship. Ewhrudjakpo reminded both parties of how God miraculously brought the Peoples Democratic Party-led administration in the state to office, and urged them to appreciate the divine grace that had also sustained their own offices. He stressed the need for both groups to cooperate with the government of the day by being reasonable in their demands and ensure mutual respect at all times. Ewhrudjakpo also admonished the chairmen to be transparent in the running of their councils to avoid unnecessary suspicions and speculations. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: I’ve raped 50 women, robbed 100 houses – Ondo serial rapist The deputy governor said, “The idea of threatening your chairmen with impeachment at every turn of events is not the right way to go. You must exhaust every means of dialogue with your leaders and stakeholders of the various local government areas.”