Peter Dada, Akure The Ondo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress in Akure North Local Government Area of the state has condemned the attack on the chieftains of the party in Iju town on Friday by some youths. The attack happened after some youths invaded a meeting held ahead of the forthcoming registration for members of the party. Many of them were reportedly injured in the attack. A source said the invaders were members of a faction of the party in the local government. The Publicity Secretary of the party in the local government, Mr Temitope Aluko, on Sunday, said the youths were sponsored to prevent the meeting from holding. READ ALSO: Chelsea 2-0 Burnley: Alonso, Azpilicueta goals hand Tuchel first win He, however, confirmed that the state Commissioner for Works, Mr Saka Yusuf-Ogunleye, was at the meeting but not among those physically assaulted. He said, “We were about commencing the meeting when some sponsored thugs stormed the hall, brandishing dangerous weapons, shouting and hitting the high table saying ‘everyone must go out of this hall, this meeting cannot hold, it is illegal.’ READ ALSO: Rashford suffers online racist abuse “The peace-loving members of our party left the hall and converged outside. Meanwhile, some of the women, who ran out and fell in the process out of fear sustained injuries. These miscreants joined us outside, this time threatening to deal with Mr Saka Yusuf Ogunleye. They were mentioning his name and accusing him of all sorts of things. But no finger or weapon was raised against him. He was not attacked in any way physically. “The hoodlums ensured that we did not succeed in holding any discussion as they hurled stones over the roof of the house where we gathered. This made the people scamper for safety.” Aluko urged the party members to be united, saying “we must not hide under any ethnicity agenda for 2025 to destroy our party.” READ ALSO: My husband’s thugs beat me, took away my children, popular YouTuber Bilikis cries out