Kayode Oyero The Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, on Tuesday, urged Nigerians to obey COVID-19 protocols as they complete their National Identification Number registration at the various offices of the National Identity Management Commission nationwide. PTF National Coordinator, Sani Aliyu, made the plea while featuring on a television programme monitored by The PUNCH. According to Aliyu, the government is not happy with the large crowds at NIMC offices all over the country. He said the task force has at various times written the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami, to shut down some NIMC offices over non-adherence to COVID-19 protocols. The PTF coordinator said, “We’ve been working closely with NIMC and the Ministry of Communications. The issue they are having is outside their premises and we insist that those protocols be followed. “In the first instance, people are not even supposed to go to their offices until they have booked. The protocols are strictly followed inside their offices. People should not be presenting themselves without the necessary invitation; they should follow the protocols that both NIMC and the Ministry of Communications have set up. “We are not happy with the crowds outside NIMC offices and we have reached out to the Minister of Communications and we have insisted that our protocols be followed in or outside the building and they should make sure there are enough enforcement agents to control that. In situations where they can’t enforce these rules, we have asked them to close those offices and they have been closing them.” READ ALSO: Lecturers can’t ensure social distancing in crowded classes, hostels –ASUU The PUNCH had earlier reported that the Federal Government through the Nigerian Communication Commission ordered telecommunications companies to deactivate telephone lines of subscribers who failed to link their phones to their National Identity Number. It also said telcos subscribers with NIN have January 19 as deadline to link their NIN with their SIM cards while subscribers without NIN have until February 9 to do so.