Afeez Hanafi The Lagos State Police Command said it arrested 10 suspects for robbery, cultism and drug peddling in various locations of the state during New Year patrols. Two of the suspects, Hussein Hudu and Ibrahim Bello, were arrested for robbery after reportedly stabbing their victim, one Robert, around 4am on Friday in an attempt to rob him of his bag and phones. The duo’s accomplice, Adamu Zango, is said to be at large. Two knives and their operational motorcycle with the number plate AGL 808 QL were reportedly recovered from the robbery suspects. The eight other suspects – Kabiru Tajudeen, Ibrahim Hamed, Elijah Ogbonna, Daniel Emmanuel, Chukwuma Abiaza, Rafiu Kolawole, Ibrahim Ogundimu and Nwerrih Elvis – were apprehended for cultism and drug peddling. The police spokesperson in the state, CSP Muyiwa Adejobi, in a statement on Saturday said some of the arrests were made by operatives of the Rapid Response Squad. Adejobi stated, “Similarly, the police operatives attached to Akodo Division, Ajah, arrested two suspected members of Aiye Confraternity at Eleko Beach in an attempt to attack their targets in the area on Saturday 2nd January, 2021 at 1pm. The suspects are Adegbenga Balogun and Temitope Yusuf. Items recovered from them include one locally-made pistol with some live cartridges and some charms.” The PPRO said the state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, was committed to rid Lagos of armed robbers and cultists through community policing strategies. He added, “The police chief made the assertion on Saturday, January 2, 2021, while dishing out instructions on Police Communication Network to officers and men of the command on the need to take the battle against armed robbery and cultism to their dens across the state.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   