Adeyinka Adedipe, Benin Edo State High Court 7 sitting in Benin, on Wednesday, nullified the candidacy of the deputy governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Audu Ganiyu, who contested in the September 19, 2020 governorship election. An individual, Kadiri Oshoakhemhe had in a suit No: B/358/20 filed a case against the APC deputy governorship candidate and two others who he argued were ineligible to contest the elections on the grounds they presented false information to the Independent National Electoral Commission. Delivering judgement in Benin City, the presiding judge, Justice H.A Courage-Ogbebor said that Ganiyu presented false information in his Form EC9 which he submitted to INEC to enable him contest the election. Reacting to the development, the APC Governorship candidate in the election, Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu, urged his supporters to remain calm as he has instructed his counsel to appeal the judgement. This was contained in a statement he signed and made available to reporters in Benin, on Wednesday. He said, “I have received the news of the judgement delivered today 6th day of January 2021 by the Edo State High Court sitting in Benin City disqualifying me and my running mate, Gani Audu from contesting the gubernatorial election held in Edo state on 19th September 2020. “This judgement to say the least is unfortunate and utterly wrong. I have already instructed my counsel to appeal against the judgement, as I am convinced that the Court of Appeal will dispassionately consider the facts presented before the court and arrive at a just decision in accordance with the law. “I urge all my teeming supporters to remain calm and law abiding. Justice will surely prevail in this matter to the glory of our God.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 