Gibson Achonu, Owerri Mrs Roseline Onuachu, mother of a slain Mbaise youth, the late Chika Onuachu, who was allegedly kidnapped and murdered on December 25 has called on the Imo Police State Command to arrest suspected killers of her son and bring them to book. Onuachu made the appeal in an interview with newsmen where she gave graphic details of the circumstances that led to the death of her son. Our correspondent gathered on Monday, that late Chika Onuachu’s lifeless body was found in a bush in Obowo council area of Imo State after he was seized by a group of youths suspected to be from Obowo. The Police Public Relations Officer, Orlando Ikoku, confirmed the incident to newsmen and added that police had commenced a thorough investigation into the matter with the aim of arresting suspects. Narrating the incident, Onuachu alleged that a pastor in Aguneze (name withheld), who is now at large, allegedly invited his twin brother and other youths to attack her son. She said trouble started when the pastor and her son had a misunderstanding over the access road leading to the pastor’s church and the pastor threatened to kill him. “The pastor used our land to create an access road to his church without consulting us and when my son approached him on the issue, he carried out a serious threat against my son. “On December 25, the pastor, who is from Umuasonye Umuariam but resides in Aguneze, invited his twin brother and other youths, who came and whisked my son away and allegedly murdered him in Obowo.” READ ALSO: Hospitals won’t be able to handle serious COVID-19 cases soon — NCDC According to her, the pastor fled the area on getting wind of the news of the death of her son, while the matter was reported to a nearby police station in Mbaise. The mother of the deceased cried to the state Commissioner of Police in Owerri and other human rights groups to help fight the battle and bring the killers of his son to book. “I cry for help, I seek justice, he is my only son and breadwinner of my family. He was the one taking care of my poor health condition,” she said.