Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, on Wednesday inaugurated an integrated snail farm billed to generate N6bn profit yearly from export and provide 2,000 jobs when fully operational. The snail farm at Okemesi Ekiti in the Ekiti West Local Government Area of Ekiti State, christened, Egbeja Snail Village, is a private initiative of Dem Eli Farms and Merchandise; and Farmkonnect agribusiness. The governor said the new snail farm, when completed, would produce a minimum of 2,600 metric tons of snail per annum and provide opportunity for the extraction of slime use by beauty care and pharmaceutical companies. Fayemi said, “The project will not only place Ekiti in the world market for the exportation of snails and slime, but will also complement the vision of this administration in providing job opportunities for the teeming youths as the project has the capacity to engage over a 2,000 personnel across various sectors of the initiative.” Fayemi listed the investments in the agricultural sector in the state in the last two years to include the Ikun Dairy Farm by Promasidor Nigeria; FMS Agro, JK Rice, Stallion Rice, Dangote rice, Promise Point located in the state agricultural processing zone where facilities including good roads, irrigation, schools were being provided. The Chief Executive Officer, Dem Eli Farms, Mrs Oluranti Ojo, said the agribusiness was to contribute immensely to food security and nutrition through agricultural real estate of modern technologies and methodologies. The founder of Farmkonnect, Lt. Commander Azees Oluwole (retd), said establishment of the snail project in Ekiti was informed by the friendly investment environment made possible by the ease of doing business policy of the Fayemi led administration. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  