Joseph Olaoluwa Some importers and Customs agents at the Lagos Port Complex Apapa have appealed to the China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation, the contractor handling the construction of rail line at the port, to ensure that it did not disrupt the movement of containers in and out of the port. The port users said that the disruption of the movement of containers at the nation’s busiest seaport would further increase the prices of goods in the market, worsen inflation in the country and compound the Apapa gridlock. Speaking on the development, the President, Nigerian Importers Integrity Association, Godwin Onyekazi, said there were reports of plans to demolish the container terminal exit gate. He said, “We commend the Federal Government for the drive to link the port to the rail line. This is commendable and you will recall that we have, at various times, made the case for multimodal transportation in the country. “The overdependence on roads for the delivery of goods in and out of the port is neither economical nor sustainable. We want to see goods come into the port or leave the port more by the waterways and railway. “We, however, wish to appeal that the rail project being driven by the government should be done in such a manner that does not lead to a blockade of the port as we have seen at Tin Can, which is almost totally blocked due to bad roads and rent-seeking on the port access road. “If care is not taken and the government allows Apapa port to be blocked like Tin Can, the Apapa gridlock will become worse and the prices of haulage will further escalate. In this case, the final consumers will pay more for goods in the market. This will certainly not be in the best interest of our economy. “We, therefore, appeal to the railway contractor to execute its task in a way that does not disrupt the inflow and outflow of cargo. This is important to avoid creating a situation where importers will be compelled to pay more in freight costs, haulage, storage and demurrage charges.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com