Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti Gunmen on Sunday kidnapped a petroleum products dealer in Ado Ekiti, Alhaji Suleiman Akinbami. The incident happened at the victim’s petrol filling station on the Ado-Ijan Road in Ado Ekiti around 9pm. The gunmen, said to be four, took the victim to an unknown destination. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Sunday Abutu, who confirmed the incident, said, “The command has deployed a special team of policemen to be assisted by the Amotekun Corps, the local hunters and the vigilantes to comb the bush for possible tracking of the suspects and the release of the victim. “Around 9.05pm on Sunday, one Mrs Mariam Akinbami came to the Odo-Ado Divisional Police Headquarters and reported that her husband, Alhaji Suleiman Akinbami, was kidnapped on the premise of his petrol filling station on the Ijan-Ado Road around 8.30pm on the same date. “According to her, four unknown men quietly approached her husband, ordered him into his Toyota SUV and whisked him away to an unknown destination. “Upon the receipt of the information, the Divisional Police Officer led his team to the scene, but the abductors had already gone.” Abutu said that policemen, Amotekun operatives, vigilantes and hunters had commenced asearch for the victim and the abductors. He stated, “The Ekiti State Commissioner of Police, Tunde Mobayo, while calling for calm, has assured the good people of Ekiti State that the police will do their best to ensure the rescue of the victim and the tracking of the abductors. “The commissioner also advised everyone to be wary of strange and suspicious faces around their domains and implore everyone with useful information concerning the incident to please contact the nearest police station or call 08062335577.” Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH.
Contact: theeditor@punchng.com