Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta The Ogun State government says the Southwest Security Network, codenamed Amotekun, will kick off in the state this January. The state government also announced the commencement of the implementation of Residents Identification Cards with a view to providing a reliable database of the people living in the state. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Kunle Somorin, said the state governor, Dapo Abiodun, made these known in his New Year broadcast, on Friday. Abiodun added that the State Health Insurance Scheme, which had been provided with N100m seed fund, will take off in the first quarter of 2021. According to Abiodun, the Amotekun security outfit, which would complement the efforts of existing security agencies, would be headed by a retired Commissioner of Police, as its Commandant ongoing. He said “Our Amotekun Security Network will also take off this month to complement the efforts of other security agencies including the community policing of the Nigeria Police. An experienced and reputable retired Commissioner of Police has been appointed as the Commandant, and the recruitment of personnel is ongoing.” He pointed out that the year 2021 Budget named “Budget of Recovery and Sustainability” with a size of N338.6b which he just signed will aid his government in ensuring strategic allocation of resources to different sectors of the economy. Abiodun stated further that a contract for the construction of 165.30km of roads across the state had been awarded, while rehabilitation and palliative on 88.60km of roads was on-going as well as building and rehabilitating over 954 classrooms in public schools and the introduction of Virtual learning during the COVID-19 pandemic. The Governor also said work was on-going at the various legacy projects including the NNPC- Kuto, Kuto Bridge, Ilaro-Owode and Oluwalogbon-Imowo-Ejirin roads, just as the Osi-Ikole-Navy road in Ota, Ashafa- Oke Fusigboye-Molipa road in Ijebu-Ode, Oba Erinwole road Sagamu and access road around Odo Afa Bridge in Idiroko, Ipokia. He noted that his government’s efforts on agriculture were yielding positive results as it was number one in rice and cassava production in the south-west, declaring Ogun was gradually becoming the nation’s food basket thus guaranteeing food security. The governor explained that his administration had in 2019, laid a solid foundation with the hope of actualising its vision but was disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic which struck the country with the state having the index case. He said despite the setbacks and frustrations as the result of the pandemic, the state made some achievements in the areas of housing, health, agriculture, education and youth employment, which has led to him being conferred with several awards.