The National Council of the Nigerian Stock Exchange has announced Chief Executive Officers that will head its operating and non-operating companies upon the completion of its ongoing demutualisation. A statement from the exchange said Mr Oscar Onyema was appointed group CEO of the Nigerian Exchange Group Plc; Temi Popoola becomes CEO of the Nigerian Exchange Limited, and Tinuade Awe emerged the CEO of NGX Regulation Limited. According to the NSE, the appointments are subject to the approval of the Securities and Exchange Commission. “Under the demutualisation plan, a new non-operating holding company, the Nigerian Exchange Group Plc, has been created. The group will have three operating subsidiaries – Nigerian Exchange Limited, the operating exchange; NGX Regulation Limited, the independent regulatory arm; and NGX Real Estate Limited, the real estate company – forming the group. All the entities have been duly registered at the Corporate Affairs Commission,” it said. Members of the NSE had recently in Lagos passed requisite resolutions for the demutualisation of the Exchange at a court-ordered meeting and an Extraordinary General Meeting. Demutualisation is the process through which any member-owned organisation becomes a shareholder-owned company. It refers to the conversion of a non-profit, mutually owned company to a for-profit entity limited by shares. Demutualisation segregates ownership and management from the trading rights of the members of an exchange. At the court-ordered meeting, members voted and assented to the re-registration of the Exchange as Nigerian Exchange Group Plc, and the transfer of its securities exchange licence and other assets required to carry out the securities function to Nigerian Exchange Limited. They also approved the establishment of a separate subsidiary company to be charged with the regulatory functions of the exchange post-demutualisation to be called NGX Regulation Limited and the total share capital being N1.25bn, comprising 2.5 billion ordinary shares of 50 kobo each to be registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission. 