Peter  Dada,  Akure The Deputy National Chairman of the Social Democratic Party and former Minister for Defence,  Dr Olu Agunloye has called on all well-meaning Nigerians to embrace ‘another type of struggle’ to terminate the prevalent struggles in Nigeria. Agunloye said this in his New Year message made available to our correspondent in Akure, the Ondo State capital,  on Sunday. He said, “This new struggle will be primarily to enshrine social justice through a new drive to restructure Nigeria and enthrone a correct constitution for Nigeria that will provide proper guidelines and guidance on how we live together, work together, share profits, penalties, and rewards. “The new struggle will be about how we select or elect only credible, competent and compassionate people into positions of leadership. The new struggle will have to revamp nationwide efforts to attack gross unemployment of youths, assure youths empowerment and their placement in positions of leadership across the country. “The main thrust for the new struggle is our resentment of the place where we are as a nation. We are not where we want to be or where we ought to be. “Nigerians of diverse status agree that the country is not at its best, they only disagree on what caused this and how to get out of the woods. At this point, it is noteworthy that the life of Nigeria, as a nation, has been held in abeyance for 55 years since January 1966.” The SDP chieftain further said, “All social democrats and other progressives should be in this new struggle to structure and restructure the basis of our nation’s union as a nation to assure social justice, equity and fairness for the progress for all sectors, all ethnicities and all regions of Nigeria.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com