Olaide Oyelude, Katsina No fewer than 77 kidnap victims were on Thursday handed over to Governor Aminu Masari of Kasina State.
The governor said the victims were rescued by the state government in collaboration with the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association, the Nigeria Police Force, the Nigerian Army, the Nigerian Air Force, the Department of State Services and other agencies. He said in all, 104 kidnap victims had been rescued through such collaboration. The governor said out of the 104 victims, 16 were from the Sabuwa, Faskari and Dandume areas of the state; 10 from the Danmusa area, adding that the 77 persons handed over to him on Thursday were from the Batsari and Jibia areas. He said their rescue was in continuation of an exercise which started with the recovery of abducted 344 schoolboys of Government Science Secondary School, Kankara. Masari said, “We saw an opening and we are working with the leadership of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association in cooperation with the police, the army, the DSS, the Air force and other security agencies to bring back as many of the kidnapped victims as possible. “And the process is still ongoing; we are doing this as quietly as we can to make sure that nobody is harmed and further kidnapping is stopped.” The state Commissioner of Police, Sanusi Buba, said the procedures involved in the rescue operation were that the bandits themselves said they wanted peace. He said, “This process has been on for some days. We are making efforts to ensure that all those that are still in captivity are safely rescued without the payment of any ransom or hindrance. We hope that this method will not be limited to Katsina State, but will go beyond all other vulnerable states.” It was learnt that the rescued 77 victims would be reunited with their families on Friday (today). Copyright PUNCH.
All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com