Adelani Adepegba, Abuja THE Defence Headquarters has said that 64 insurgents were killed in Yobe State in one week during an encounter with troops. The DHQ spokesman, Maj. Gen. John Enenche, disclosed that the criminal elements met their waterloo at Gujba Local Government Area of the state and Gonan Kaji village along Damaturu-Buni Yadi road during fire fights with the troops. Addressing defence correspondents in Abuja on Thursday on the nationwide security operations from January 7-13, 2020, Enenche said firearms, ammunition and 10 gun trucks were also recovered from the terrorists. He stated, “During the encounter with the troops of Operation Tura Takai Bango at Gujba on January 9, 28 terrorists were neutralised and several others escaped with gunshot wounds, while one gun truck and several arms and ammunition were recovered. “Similarly on the same day, troops had an encounter with some Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists at Gonan Kaji village along the Damaturu-Buni Yadi Road in Yobe State, during which 30 terrorists were killed, while caches of arms and ammunition were recovered by troops.” Similarly, on January 10, the DHQ said the troops engaged with some marauders at Kafa village in Damboa LGA and six terrorists were neutralised while a gun truck and several weapons were destroyed. Enenche further said that the troops of Operation Lafiya Dole also dealt with some militants at their enclaves between Goniri and Gorgi in Gujba and Damaturu Local Government Areas of Yobe and Borno States, adding that several terrorists were killed while 10 gun trucks were recovered by the troops. In the South-South, he said troops of Operation Delta Safe have continued with the aggressive fight against economic sabotage in the zone, noting that the Forward Operating Base, Ibaka, intercepted two suspects in a large wooden boat laden with 1,184 of 25kg bags of Yaraliva Nitrabor fertilizers suspected to have been smuggled from Cameroon. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 