Nike Popoola The Ogun State Government says it has distributed another round of palliatives to victims of the last flood disaster in Abeokuta North and Abeokuta South Local Government Area of the state, in order to cushion the effect of the disaster in the areas. It said this in a statement titled ‘Ogun distributes another round of palliatives to victims’. Speaking during the distribution of the palliatives, at the Trade Fair Complex, Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta, the state Commissioner for Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs, Mr Femi Ogunbanwo, said the palliatives were from Federal Government and to be given to the victims of flood disaster to assist them. He said the federal and state governments were concerned about the plights of the people, and that the beneficiaries should make judicious use of the palliatives. “Indeed, the distribution of the palliatives which was from Federal Government came weeks after the state government had distributed its own relieve materials, especially to the victims of flood disasters in the state,” Ogunbanwo said. Also speaking, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs, Mr Kehinde Onasanya, said the federal and state governments had a strong synergy which enabled the distribution of the palliatives, admonishing the beneficiaries to genuinely make use of it. He added that those palliatives were not to be sold by those being given but to be utilised to ease their plight, noting that it was imperative to use it for what it was meant for. The Southwest Coordinator, National Emergency Management Agency, Mr Zlaku Lugard, said the agency was moved to release the palliatives to support the victims. He added that the distribution of palliatives was not a compensation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 