John Alechenu, Abuja The Director General of the Progressives Governors Forum, Dr. Salihu Lukman, has urged the All Progressives Congress-led Federal Government, to expedite action on the implementation of recommendations contained in the El-Rufai-led APC committee on True Federalism, in order to douse tension. He also urged the federal government as well as the party leadership, to take urgent steps to inspire Nigerians to live above the current wave of ethno-religious hatred. Lukman said this in a statement titled, “Ethnic and Religious Hatred and the Deceitful Campaigns in Nigeria,” which he signed and made available to newsmen in Abuja, on Monday. He said, “There has to be a way out of this mess. Our political leaders and our party need to assert their authority in mobilising alternative responses, which should inspire Nigerians to rise above the current high wave of ethnic and religious hatred in the country that is weakening our capacity to arrest and prevent criminal activities.” “May be the challenge we have today present a golden opportunity for APC to be able to initiate processes of implementing the recommendations contained in the report of the APC Committee on True Federalism. “What may be required in the circumstances is for the APC Caretaker Committee led by His Excellency Mai Mala Buni to initiate internal processes of consultations both within the party and across the executive and legislative arms of government. “We need to appeal to our leaders and our party to rise to the occasion of this challenge facing our dear nation beyond the current public anger.” He equally pointed out that the Federal Government through the Minister of Information ought to take charge of communication response to such issues instead of leaving it to the spokespersons of the President. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   