’Femi Asu The United States African Development Foundation and All On have announced the official opening of the 2021 Nigeria Off-Grid Energy Challenge, which will provide up to $100,000 in blended finance per enterprise for successful applicants. The Rockefeller Foundation is also providing support via the All On Hub for the programme whose application window opens on January 15 and closes on February 28, 2021, according to a statement issued by All On on Wednesday. “We are proud to be partnering again with All On for the fourth edition of an initiative that is fostering the growth of local enterprises committed to bringing power and connectivity to underserved Nigerians,” said the President and Chief Executive Officer, USADF, C.D. Glin. He said the partnership pioneered a blended finance model that combined grant capital and private sector investment funding that increases access to power and ultimately impacts lives. The CEO, All On, Wiebe Boer, said, “We are particularly pleased that in spite of a remarkably difficult year in which tough business decisions are being made, the challenge has been expanded for an additional two years till 2022. “We look forward to more innovative solutions from entrepreneurs in the Nigerian off grid sector.” The statement said participants would be selected based on their demonstrated abilities to increase sustainable energy access, specifically off-grid solutions, and extend the delivery of electrification to unserved and under-served communities throughout Nigeria. “These unprecedented times of crisis have shown us how critical innovation is to solving global challenges. The Rockefeller Foundation is proud to continue its support to All On in identifying and nurturing innovative entrepreneurs and businesses that are addressing Africa’s energy poverty by scaling Nigeria’s off grid sector,” said Joseph Nganga, the Executive Director of The Rockefeller Foundation’s Power and Climate initiative in Africa. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 