Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The Founder of LifeBank, Temie Giwa-Tubosun, has said the organisation’s collaboration with the Ekiti State Government will provide free COVID-19 test for health workers and civil servants in the state. Giwa-Tubosun said the intervention where 1,000 health workers and 500 civil servants in the state would to be tested for the virus, was part of the organisation’s methods of mitigating the spread of COVID-19. The LifeBank Chief Executive, who spoke in Ado Ekiti while unveiling the kits for the tests, said, “We are here today to increase our capacity to test more people and keep residents of Ekiti safe from COVID-19.” She said health workers were on daily basis exposed to the virus in their interaction with patients, hence the decision to start the testing with them to help in reducing the transmission and keep the people safe from COVID-19. Giwa-Tubosun said, “We are partnering with Johnson and Johnson Foundation to provide COVID-19 home sample collection kits that contain all the necessary equipment viable for COVID-19 RT-PCR screening test to 1000 healthcare workers and 500 civil servants in Ekiti State.” “The COVID-19 home sample collection kits are designed to encourage social distancing, reduce contact and indirectly impact the lives of 3000 people from contracting the virus. “All of these efforts are part of our global mission to make a tangible positive impact in health care logistics and technology as well as our efforts to create a world in which fewer people die due to lack of access to critical medical supplies.” The state Commissioner for Health, Dr Oyebanji Filani, said the best way to minimise the infection of COVID-19 was to conduct more tests on the people. Filani said, “This is a unique collaboration that helps to bring together private expertise to help the government. This particular test will help us to ramp up our testing in the state.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 