Dayo Ojerinde The Chairman of the Board of Trustees, Cancer Enlightenment and Support Foundation, Mr Adegboyega Adepitan, has said the disease is not a death sentence, saying it is treatable if discovered early. The 77-year-old cancer survivor said this at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Ikeja, during the third anniversary of the Foundation, held at the children cancer ward of the hospital. He said, “When I was 70-year-old in 2014, I had colon cancer, stage three. I had to travel to India for treatment. By God’s grace, I survived the ailment and that is why I started this non-governmental organisation to extend our hand of help to those who have cancer. “The NGO was established three years ago on January 19, 2018, which coincided with my 74th birthday. By God’s grace,  I just felt that we should come here to bring succor to children battling cancer. When we visited here about two weeks ago, we saw all these children; we saw the need to help them. These children are the future of tomorrow, no one knows what they can achieve. “As a survivor, I can tell you that cancer is treatable. The only thing is that people have to go for a regular test. Early detection and treatment are key to surviving the disease. Although there are few cases, like mine that was discovered late, here am I today. It is better to discover it early and treat it early.” A member of the Board of Trustees of the Foundation, Mr Segun Olulade, called on all well-meaning Nigerians to support cancer patients financially. Olulade, who was a former Chairman of the Lagos State House of Assembly Committee on Health said, “While I was in the House, we worked on the law of cancer institute. I understand that a lot of private organisations and NGOs support the fight against cancer, but they are not enough. Nigerians must be awake to the responsibility of protecting and standing with our neighbours. “I want to encourage people to come down to LASUTH and see these children suffering from cancer. It is a call that we must all answer, we must support cancer patients. Like the founder of the NGO has said, caner is not a death sentence.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 