Friday Olokor, Abuja The agitation for the 2023 Presidency thickened on Monday with a former governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha, announcing the plan to form a new political movement in Nigeria. Okorocha, representing Imo West Senatorial District in the National Assembly, said himself and other progressive-minded politicians were perfecting the plan as a result of the silent agitations and complaints across the country against the current state of the nation. According to him, from the body language of the Nigerians, it was obvious that they were not satisfied with what was on ground in Nigeria. The Senator, who is a founding member of the All Progressives Congress, unfolded the plans in an interview with journalists in Abuja. The PUNCH reported that Okorocha, while commissioning projects in Rivers State, on the invitation of governor, Nyesom Wike, recently provoked a fresh controversy when he called on the good people in APC and the Peoples Democratic Party to come together and rescue Nigeria in 2023. He said on Monday that there was an urgent need for the regrouping of the ‘good politicians’ to restore public confidence in governance and save the country. The former insisted that the country needed political reengineering, warning that Nigerians cannot be fooled again by mischievous politicians in 2023. “The movement for a new Nigeria has begun and we must come together, I mean progressive Nigerians to make the country work,” Okorocha said. Asked if the promise of the new political movement for a new Nigeria would not be similar to that of the APC in 2015, he, retorted that the APC was hurriedly formed to take power from the PDP without much emphasis on the character of those championing the course. He assured that the political coalition is being championed by people with a proven track record of achievement and public spirit, adding that it was no more ideal to allow people who do not have a genuine love for the unity and progress of the country to hijack power. The ex-governor said, “The APC was a hurried arrangement, it was hurriedly formed to take power when the then government was drifting. APC would have been better until people who were not members of the party; people who came for congratulatory message hijacked the party and became Lords.”