Sampson Itode, Port Harcourt A political pressure group, Network for the Defense of Democracy and Good Governance has vowed to resist any imposition of governor in Rivers state come 2023. The group said Rivers electorate deserve a better deal in 2023 and urged residents of the state to begin the preparation to participate fully in the electoral process in order to enthrone good administration that will forestall equitable development across the state. The leader of the group, Sobomabo Jackrich, while officially inaugurating the NDDGG office in Port Harcourt on Tuesday, noted that the state needed only a leader that would be accountable to the people. He said, “We gave them the power to lead us, that doesn’t mean that they are more powerful than us, we collectively gave you the power and now you see us as slaves, we are not slaves, so when your current tenure expires or you finish leading according to your style, when you leave office, others will decide to bring in new leaders, not you. Read also: My husband died in SARS detention over N200 airtime – Widow “We will not allow you to bring in new leaders, because if you do, they will behave like you.” Jackrich called on the various ethnic groups in the state to unitedly mobilise their members to initiate preparations in changing the governance narrative in the state. “We came here to fight the oppression and marginalisation happening in this state, Rivers State is a state with mixed ethnicities, we have the Ogba, Ikwerre, Kalabari, Abua, and many others, no one is stronger than the other. “Rivers people deserve to be respected and the only way we can change this enslavement and tyranny is by our collective effort and how do we do it, go and get your voter card and go out to vote. You cannot vote in the house, you cannot vote with your debit cards, you can have all it takes but if you don’t have the authority to vote, then you are nothing. “What all of us should be doing now is to make sure that we and our loved ones are registered properly and after registration is done we need to talk to each other, let us access everyone across party lines because a divided house will not stand, that is the only way we can change the governance narrative.”