Wale Oyewale The inhabitants of Igangan community in Oyo State are currently living in fear of possible reprisal attack by killer herders in reaction to their recent eviction from parts of the state following the ultimatum given to them by a Yoruba rights activist, Chief Sunday Adeyemo a.k.a Sunday Igboho. Barring the security arrangements being put in place by the state government, the community leaders, comprising the Asigangan of Igangan, Oba Adewuyi Olaoye; the Asigangan-in-Council, community leaders and youth groups, indicated that precautionary measures were emplace to forestall possible attack by the herders. ALSO READ: FG’s failure to license Amotekun to bear arms illegal – Falana Oba Olaoye, in an interview with The PUNCH, confirmed that traditional Oro rites had been made to appease the gods of the land for protection and a dusk-to-dawn curfew has been imposed on Igangan community as part of efforts to ensure security. The monarch, who said the community had, for long, been under the siege of killer herders, called for investigation into the alleged atrocities and criminal acts levelled against the Seriki Fulani, Abdulkadri Saliu. READ ALSO: How Fulani herders invaded my cassava farm with cattle, macheted me –Igangan farmer The Convener, Igangan Development Advocates, Oladokun Oladiran, also said the community was eagerly awaiting the deployment of the 200 Amotekun operatives promised by Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State to further check insecurity. He said, “In Igangan, a 5am to 9pm curfew has been put in place monitor movement of people in an effort to secure the lives and property of the people. “It was the joint decision of the monarch, the chiefs, the council of elders and associations in Igangan. The Operation Burst has been deployed to resume patrol including the local vigilante group. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: How Obasanjo truncated Tinubu’s ambition to become Buhari’s VP – Oyinlola “Fulanis are still in our midst as we speak. They are still at Ile Bamogba in Igangan. They are living peacefully and are going about their daily activities without any threat. “We continue to live in peace with Fulani people in Igangan. Those ones have stayed with us for many years. Igangan and the entire Ibarapa are rising against the crime Lord. We are talking of somebody who has turned crime into business, who made millions on kidnappings, regardless of the lives been lost in the process.”