The National Legal Adviser of the Peoples Democratic Party, Mr Emmanuel Enoidem, has described the allegations of wrong doing levelled against him by Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde as baseless. Enoidem was reacting to the claim by Makinde that he (Enoidem) was partial in his intervention in the crisis rocking the party in the South-West. The party legal adviser however said in a statement that his intervention in the preparation for the congress was to make sure the party followed its constitution. He specifically said his intervention in the Lagos PDP preparation for supplementary congress to fill vacant positions in the chapter was guided by the law. He said, “The NWC of the PDP, in its meeting held on February 23, 2021, resolved to hold Zonal Congresses which were place on hold for some domestic and house -keeping reasons on March 6, 2021. “However, when arrangements were made for the conduct of the congresses, I reminded the NWC that there is an interlocutory injunction, a copy of which had earlier been placed on the NWC Whatsapp’s platform, issued by the Federal High Court, sitting in Lagos State on January 19, 2021, restraining the Party from conducting the South West Congress until the determination of the Originating Summons.” “The suit No. is FHC/L/CS/63/2021 and the Parties are: HON. DAYO OGUNGBENRO & 11 ORS ( representing members of the Caretaker Committee of the South West Zone) and PRINCE UCHE SECONDUS ( representing NWC &NEC), EMMANUEL ENOIDEM (National Legal Adviser) & PDP. “My office, and indeed, the party became aware of the case on January 22, 2021, when we were served with the originating processes and the order of injunction. “On January 25, 2021, I instructed Segun Arowoyele, Esq, of Brainfield Law Chambers, 33, Adegbola Street, Lagos, to represent the Party in the case, pursuant to the powers given to the National Legal Adviser in Section 42 (1) (b) of the Constitution 2017 (as amended). “The allegations made by HE, Gov Makinde that the Party or the NLA, instituted the case as Plaintiffs and Defendants and proceeded to instruct legal representations for both the Plaintiffs and the Defendants are totally incorrect, false and gross misrepresentations of the facts.”