Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti THE Ekiti State Publicity Secretary of All Progressives Congress, Mr Ade Ajayi, on Monday said there were no errand boys in the state chapter of the APC. Ajayi said this in response to a statement credited to the Special Adviser to the President, on Political Matters, Senator Babafemi Ojudu. READ ALSO: Haruna’s ex-aide arraigned for allegedly calling wife adulterer The presidential aide was quoted as saying party stakeholders would resist any attempt to impose “a stranger or houseboy” as the party’s candidate for next year’s governorship election. Ojudu had shortly after revalidating his membership of the party in Ado Ekiti, on Friday, said, “I can assure you that there will be no imposition. Anybody who is a member of our party would be free to contest the primaries. “We will allow democratic process to take place. But we don’t want somebody who is a stranger or a houseboy in our party to be imposed as governor.” In response, Ajayi, in a statement titled, ‘No house boy in Ekiti APC, party believes in principle of equality,’’ said, “Such a statement can only come from someone that has been out of tune with happenings at home or rather a member that always makes attempts to make himself relevant each time an election is drawing near. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: NDPHC seals agreement on power supply to Togo “The principle of equality of members has been one of the hallmarks of APC, especially in Ekiti State. “Members of APC in Ekiti State believe in equality of all, there has always been a level playing ground for members to operate. Sharing of positions has always been done in a democratic way such that even those joining the party afresh are accorded the same opportunity with others.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com