Some people, including Sheik Ahmad Gumi, have been proposing amnesty for bandits operating in the North. What’s your take on this? Whoever is following the policies of the Zamfara State government knows that this is what we have stood for and still stand for. When Governor Bello Matawalle assumed office in 2019, the first thing he started in June 2019, just a week after his assumption of office, was to initiate a peace dialogue with the bandits because his belief was that after eight or nine years of the military and police fighting the bandits, the attacks were just increasing. There were occasions that on a single day, you would hear of up to 200 people killed by the bandits. There was no single day between 2018 and early 2019 that you would not hear of either kidnapping or killing. But after initiating the peace deal, everyone following the news will know that the attacks have substantially reduced. The state government was able to pacify many of the banditry groups – they have many groups; there are many camps in the bushes. Now, some of them have surrendered their weapons and are now living with us in towns. Some of them are even helping us to talk to those who are not ready to accept the peace deal. Over 300 weapons, the smallest of which is an AK-47, have been surrendered by the bandits. No fewer than 1,000 victims have been released without paying ransoms, and today, all the markets that were closed during the previous administration have been reopened. All the roads that were not motorable before have now been reopened. People who couldn’t go to their farms can now go to the farms. So we have seen the positive changes of this dialogue because, in every society where we have conflicts like this that is a guerrilla war, when you attack the bandits, they will run and come back again. If you kill them, they will recruit more members. You only have to sit down with them and find out what their grievances are. And from findings, 95 per cent of these bandits are Fulani and they have been stating their problems, and I also think that from their interaction with Gumi, they say they are fighting because of injustice meted out to them. They say their cattle have been rustled, they have been attacked and their families killed. They live with their cattles, they don’t even go to school. So when their sources of livelihood have been taken away from them, what do you think they will do? They will find a way of retaliating, and that is why you see them carrying arms. So we believe that what Gumi is doing is just re-emphasising our own stand that the peace initiative (amnesty) is the best way to end this problem. It is not that we are saying the military should not do their job, which is why the governor says he believes in the carrot-and-stick approach. Those who willingly surrender their arms will be pardoned, but those who say they will not surrender their arms will continue to be hunted by the military. This is exactly our stand! So the bandits say they are carrying out attacks because of alleged injustice to them? Yes, that is what they told us. Before, no one knew why they were carrying out attacks. I could remember the time when many areas in Zamfara State were not safe and many people were saying the bandits are Fulani from Niger Republic and others. But I can tell you that these bandits are Nigerians and the majority of them are Fulani. No one ever cared to engage them until now. When Gumi appeared on the scene, he went into the bush and met even one of the top leaders of the bandits here in Zamfara State. The man told Gumi the same thing, and they gave Gumi their 10-point demands, which were presented to the governor here in Zamfara. The bandits said they too were not even happy with what they were doing and that they only needed their welfare to be taken into consideration. With the government giving the bandits amnesty, don’t you think another insurgency group might arise in the future, carry out attacks and then also demand amnesty? For every action, there must be a cause. So when you see people carrying arms, if they are not criminals, then there must be a cause. And if the government and stakeholders study the cause of a crime, it is easy to prevent. However, when it comes to the issue of criminals, there should be no negotiation because, in the first place, a real criminal will never negotiate with you; he has nothing to negotiate. That is why in Zamfara State, for instance, we have been able to negotiate with them and that is why we are building a Rural Grazing Area for them. Many of them will be able to settle there. There will be a RUGA in each of the three senatorial districts and the first one at Maradun is 90 per cent completed. It is a modern facility; it has a grazing area, dams, canals, houses, schools, a clinic, a task force, recreational facilities, and others. Pending when the RUGA will be completed, where do the repentant bandits live? They are living with us in the towns. As a matter of fact, you know the leader of the gang that kidnapped the Kankara schoolboys, Awwalun Daudawa, came and submitted himself to the Zamfara State government. All his boys also surrendered themselves and their weapons. He is with us and said he wants to go back to school. The state government will assist him in his education. This is what amnesty for repentant bandits can achieve. It was reported last year that for every weapon a bandit surrenders, he will get three cows. Is this also part of the amnesty? Well, the governor mentioned something like that and many people are making it look like it’s awkward. Let me give you the scenario. It was during a courtesy call when some groups came to discuss security issues with the governor. The governor said during interactions with some bandits, they told him that before, they used to rear cattle, but the cattle had been rustled. The bandits said they sold the remaining of their cows and bought weapons. Each AK-47 weapon they bought cost between N600,000 and N700,000. So they asked the governor that now that they had surrendered their weapons and didn’t want to continue with banditry, what would they do to eat and survive? So the governor replied that since they were Fulani cattle rearers, they would not be given money, but would be supplied with three cows each to continue their business. That was exactly what the governor said – to assist all those who repented to start a new life. It baffles a lot of Nigerians that bandits and other criminal gangs have easy access to weapons like AK-47s. What is responsible for this? This is a national issue and not something that is peculiar to one state. Even when you ask the bandits where they get their weapons from, they won’t tell you. But we know that weapons come in from the Niger Republic. And even the President mentioned something like that sometime ago that after the fall of the late president of Libya, Muammar Gaddafi, there was proliferation of arms from Libya. Apart from that, a lot of these weapons owned by bandits are foreign – of course, we know that we don’t manufacture arms in Nigeria. Arms proliferation is a national security problem and I think our security agencies need to see how to curb it. Of course, arms proliferation bothers us because every life lost saddens us and it requires collective efforts to stop this. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    