Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo The Osun State Judicial Panel of Inquiry into Police Brutality, Human Rights Violation and Extrajudicial Killings said it had recommended the payment of compensations to victims of police brutality in the state. Speaking to newsmen after its sitting on Friday, the panel chairman, Justice Akin Oladimeji (retd.), said after the panel had concluded its sitting, the report would be presented to Governor Gboyega Oyetola for necessary action. Justice Oladimeji said his panel could only recommend to the governor the amount to be paid as compensations to the petitioners and that the decision to pay the compensations remained the sole responsibility of the state government. He said, “The procedure is that when we conclude all cases, then we will have to put it in paper and CD and present it to the governor. “Our duty is to make recommendations and tell the government what to do on each matter. Then the government will pay the petitioners. But the governor can decide to delegate such powers to any other person.” Justice Oladimeji said out of 34 petitions its panel received, 23 had been disposed of, leaving the panel with 11 cases. “Out of the 23 petitions disposed of, 11 were contested cases and addresses have been taken and concluded while 12 were struck out for lack of competence or other reasons. “We have only 11 cases that are still pending. Three of them have reached the final stages of adoption of written addresses while the remaining eight are for the continuation of hearing,” he said. Meanwhile, a petitioner, Chief Jelili Raheem, at the sitting on Friday, voluntarily withdrew his petition against a police superintendent, Dayo Ezekiel, who allegedly unjustly beat him (Raheem) up. Raheem had approached the panel, accusing Ezekiel of assaulting him for no reason on October 2, 2020, at a motor park around Oke-Baale, Osogbo. But the petitioner, through his counsel, informed the panel that the matter had been resolved after the defendant showed remorse and tendered an apology to the respondent. Justice Oladimeji, in his ruling, struck out the petition. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com     