Rotimi Adesanya Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) usually pass from one person to another through sexual contact. Most are fairly common, and effective treatment is available especially in the early stages. Some STIs are benign, but others can lead to severe complications without treatment. STIs can affect anyone, regardless of the individual’s sexual orientation or hygiene standards. Many STIs can spread through nonpenetrative sexual activity. In a lay man’s language, these are infections one can get by having sex with someone who has an infection. It is largely referred to as venereal disease. They can also be passed through anal sex or skin to skin contact. STDS are caused by virus or bacteria. It is a major public health issue and also a major cause of morbidity and mortality in this part of the world. Causes Viruses…Hepatitis B Virus, Herpes Simplex Virus, Human Immunodeficiency Virus, Human Papilloma Virus. Bacteria..Gonorrhea, Syphilis Staphylococcus, Chlamydia. Fungal…..Yeast, Candida. Protozoal….. Trichomonia Symptoms Men Pain on urination, fever body aches, unusual symptoms, internal heat, depression, lower abdominal pain penile/urethral discharge warts. Women Itching around the vagina, discharge around the vagina, and yellowish, brownish, offensive vaginal discharge. pain during sex, pain in pelvic region, sore throats in people with oral sex, pain in or around the anus, chancre (painless red sores on the genital areas, anus, tongue, and throat, scaly rash on palms of hands, soles or feet, small blisters that turns into scabs in the genital areas, swollen glands, fever body aches, unusual infections, lower abdominal pain. warts around the genital areas. Complications Men Infertility, paralysis, heart damage, blindness, depressed immune system, cancer of penis, Women Infertility cancer of the cervix, blocked tubes, abortions, paralysis, mental problems, heart damage. Laboratory investigations STDS are diagnosed through an examination by a qualified medical practitioner however laboratory investigations are needed to confirm certain diagnosis. Women Vaginal Swab for MCS..detects the organism and the antibiotics sensitivity Endocervical Swab..detects the organism and the antibiotics sensitivity. Urine MCS………detects the organism and the antibiotics sensitivity. Abdominal Scan……detects any damage to the womb or tubes. HIV test..detects HIV virus Hepatitis B and C Virus test……..detects Hepatitis B and C virus. VDRL….test for Syphilis. Men Urine mcs ….detects the organism in the urine Urethral swab for mcs…detects the organism from urethral discharge. Seminal fluid analysis….detects the organism and sperm count which may be low. HIV test Hepatitis B and C virus test VDRL….test for syphillis Treatment A doctor can test for STIs to confirm whether or not an infection is present. He will then prescribe the most appropriate treatment option. Treatment of STDs is complex and it may vary from one day to months and years of treatments depending on the causative organism. Both partners will need to be treated. No sexual intercourse during treatments, in case of sexual intercourse condoms should be used. Treatments will depend on the causative organism. Treatment for bacterial infections is with antibiotics. However, some STIs — such as gonorrhea — appear to be developing a resistance to the antibiotics that doctors commonly prescribe to treat them. It is essential to complete any type of antibiotic treatment, even if the symptoms disappear. Stopping treatment early may allow remaining bacteria to grow again, and symptoms may return. At this stage, the infection can become harder to treat. Antiviral drugs If the causative organism is a virus, the patient will need to be on antiviral drugs like antiretroviral drugs, acyclovir. HIV…antiretroviral drugs like nevirapine, lamivudine. Herpes Simplex Virus….Acyclovir is the drug of choice Hepatitis B and C……Conservative management, Antiviral drugs, interferon. Antibiotics If the causative organism is a bacterium, the patient will need to be on antibiotics Chlamydia infection….. Tetracycline, Doxycycline. Syphilis……..    the Penicillins, Quinolones, Broad Spectrum Antibiotics. Gonorrhea….same as in treatments for Syphillis. Vaccines Vaccines can help protect a person from HPV and Hepatitis B. People can discuss their situation with a healthcare provider, who will advise about vaccinations. Dealing with stigma. Many people find it hard to talk about STIs due to concerns about stigma. However, STIs are a common health concern, and treatments are available that can either cure the infection or help a person manage it. Seeking early treatment will also reduce the risk of complications. Prevention Ways to reduce the risk of transmitting or contracting an STI include: Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 