Temiloluwa O’Peters The Lagos State Valuation Office has commenced the tagging of all Lagos State Government property with barcode enabled labels. Speaking during the commencement of the tagging exercise at Radio Lagos, the Director, LASVO, Adekunle Awolaja, explained that the exercise was designed to enable the state keep record of government assets and ensure easy identification and location of such property. He explained that the exercise would help safeguard the numerous state government property belonging to the Ministries, Departments and Agencies across the Lagos metropolis, according to a statement issued by the agency on Saturday. Awolaja therefore appealed to all staff of the state government, especially the MDAs, to render all necessary support to the agency towards the successful completion of the tagging exercise. The General Manager, Radio Lagos, Ayo Shotonwa, while welcoming the LASVO team to the station, commended the agency for the exercise, noting that the exercise would ensure that all government assets were well documented, maintained and kept safe. The Lagos State Valuation Office had in December 2020 embarked on the verification and compilation of the state government’s fixed assets across the metropolis. On his part, the Commissioner for Youth and Social Development, Segun Dawodu, stated that mapping a strategy to enhance, develop and create opportunities, as well as effective utilisation of the significant youth population was a priority for the state. He added that the construction of youth centres across the state was initiated to give more young people the opportunity to build their physical and mental health, personal and cognitive capacity, enhance creativity, citizenship and civic competencies. The Chairman of the Lagos State Chapter of National Youth Council of Nigeria, Lekan Oba, commended the state government for the youth centre, describing it as a demonstration of the love and unwavering commitment to the youths. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   