What are the advantages of using a hybrid vehicle? Fuel economy: A hybrid electric vehicle has a good fuel economy ranging from about 30MPG to 70MPG depending on the hybrid type. The idle reduction feature which stops the engine any time the vehicle is stationary helps the vehicle to ramp more fuel economy as no fuel would be used up while stationary except the high voltage battery is low while some could propel the vehicle to a distance as high as over 80km without the intervention of the internal combustion engine. Pollution reduction: Most of the emission from vehicles emanates from the burning of excessive fuel. The hybrid mode shuts the engine down where the engine would have been operational in a conventional vehicle and starts it automatically when needed, thereby reducing exhaust gas emission. Less maintenance: Hybrid electric vehicle increases maintenance intervals thereby reducing the overall maintenance cost of the vehicle. For example, the brake pads of a hybrid electric vehicle last more compared to a conventional vehicle because regenerative braking is used more for slowing down the vehicle reducing the pressure on the brake pads. Quiet operation: The operation in electric drive reduces the vehicle’s noise level. What is the difference between a hybrid and electric vehicle? An electric vehicle is purely a vehicle propelled by electric drive alone. It basically depends on the high voltage battery for movement and operation of other electrical gadgets on the vehicle. It differs from the hybrid electric vehicle in that it has no form of internal combustion engine and hence would not use gasoline (petrol) for its operation. The means by which it is refueled is through charging from an electrical power source or a charge station. It would interest you to know that a few weeks back, the National Automotive Design and Development Council (a parastatal under the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment) unveiled the first locally-assembled electric vehicle in Nigeria. This has also been followed by plans to start testing vehicle emission at its centre thereby making it a mandatory part of routine vehicle inspection and road worthiness certification. In fact, the hybrids are here and in the near future there might be no running away from such vehicles due to improvement in battery technology as well as the increase in the clamour for electric vehicles. It’s however important to be informed of the safety required of the hybrids especially on the wirings in the orange wire harness that moves the high voltages. The operating range of the hybrid electric drive ranges between 60 and 500Vdc making it important for rescue operators as well as other emergency agencies to be aware of during towing and other rescue operations and activities in order not to treat it as that of other vehicles. The high voltage systems should not be tampered with except by a qualified technician.  My mentee, Ibrahim Ogundele, wrote this piece. Generic codes P1073: Mass air flow sensor 2 signal too small Meaning Mass air flow sensor 2 signal too small is the generic description for the P1073 code. But the manufacturer may have a different description for your model and year vehicle. Currently, we have no further information about the P1073 OBDII code. Possible causes  P1074: Mass air flow sensor 2 signal too large Meaning Mass air flow sensor 2 signal too large is the generic description for the P1074 code. But the manufacturer may have a different description for your model and year vehicle. Currently, we have no further information about the P1074 OBDII code. Possible causes  P1077: Intake manifold runner control system malfunction low RPM Meaning Engine power is achieved by closing and opening the Intake manifold runner control valve. When the valve is closed, there is high torque at low engine speed. When the valve is open, there is high torque and a high engine speed. Possible causes  P1078: Intake manifold runner control system malfunction high RPM Meaning Engine power is achieved by closing and opening the intake manifold runner control valve. When the valve is closed, there is high torque at low engine speed. When the valve is open, there is high torque at high engine speed. Possible causes  P1081: Exhaust bank 3- mixture adaption range 1 lower lean limit not reached Meaning Exhaust bank 3- mixture adaption range 1 lower lean limit not reached is the generic description for the P1081 code. But the manufacturer may have a different description for your model and year vehicle. Currently, we have no further information about the P1081 OBDII code. Possible causes  P1082: Exhaust bank 3- mixture adaption range 2 lower lean limit not reached Meaning Exhaust bank 3- mixture adaption range 2 lower lean limit not reached is the generic description for the P1082 code. But the manufacturer may have a different description for your model and year vehicle. Currently, we have no further information about the P1082 OBDII code. Possible causes  P1083: Fuel control mixture lean bank 1 sensor 1 Meaning Fuel control mixture lean bank 1 sensor 1 is the generic description for the P1083 code. But the manufacturer may have a different description for your model and year vehicle. Currently, we have no further information about the P1083 OBDII code. Possible causes  P1084 Exhaust valve timing control position sensor bank 2 circuit Meaning Exhaust valve timing control position sensor detects the concave groove of the exhaust camshaft rear end. This sensor signal is used for sensing a position of the exhaust camshaft. This sensor uses a Hall IC. Based on the position of the exhaust camshaft, the ECM controls exhaust valve timing control magnet retarder to optimise the shut/open timing of exhaust valve for the driving condition. When is the code detected? An excessively high or low voltage from the sensor is sent to the engine control module. Possible causes  P1085: Fuel control mixture lean bank 2 sensor 1 Meaning Fuel control mixture lean bank 2 sensor 1 is the generic description for the P1085 code. But the manufacturer may have a different description for your model and year vehicle. Currently, we have no further information about the P1085 OBDII code. Possible causes Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    