Tobi Aworinde As the battle against the COVID-19 pandemic rages on, several strategic steps are being adopted the world over to tame the infectious disease. One of such steps is early detection, a multipronged tactic in its own right. In Germany, a veterinary clinic trained sniffer dogs to detect the virus in human saliva samples with 94 per cent accuracy. Filou, a three-year-old Belgian Shepherd, and Joe Cocker, a one-year-old Cocker Spaniel, are two of the dogs trained at Hanover’s University of Veterinary Medicine, according to a Reuters report. Head of the veterinary clinic, Holger Volk, said, “We did a study where we had dogs sniffing samples from COVID-positive patients and we can say that they have a 94 per cent probability in our study… that they can sniff them out. So, dogs can really sniff out people with infections and without infections, as well as asymptomatic and symptomatic COVID patients.” A vet at Germany’s armed forces school for service dogs, Esther Schalke, noted that the dogs are conditioned to scent out the “corona odour” that comes from cells in infected people. In Russia, England, Chile, Australia, Iran, Finland, among other countries, canine COVID-19 detection programmes are also being developed, The Atlantic reports. Similarly, the fire brigade’s Cynotechnical Unit in Paris, France trained a dog to sniff out COVID-19 at the national veterinary school of Alfort. For Nigerian experts, these results represent a milestone in preventing the spread of COVID-19. The Dean, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of Ibadan, Prof Olufemi Adedji, in an interview with Sunday PUNCH, expressed optimism in the light of achievements in the detection of Tuberculosis by rats. He said, “I know that some dogs are being trained in Europe to identify COVID-19 patients. It’s special training. It can happen (in Nigeria), provided we have the enabling environment. “In fact, it’s not a new thing because when I was in Tanzania in 2010, some rats were being trained to diagnose TB (Tuberculosis) just from the sputum and the success rate then was close to 99 per cent. For dogs, that is something that can be done here, if we have the enabling environment.” Speaking on creating an enabling environment, Adedeji likened the task to the practice of forensic medicine, saying the research would involve exposure of dogs to the virus. “The dogs would have been bred specially for that, so if you have not been using dogs to do such diagnosis before, it might be a bit difficult, but we can train them. Also, the people that would train them must have undergone some training. Then you need the right statistics. When I talk about statistics, you would have done a lot of trials with these dogs to know the success rate. “You would have false positives and negatives, so you would have exposed them to a lot of positive samples, which they would be able to identify. Those positive samples would then be mixed with negative samples and the dogs would be able to identify the negative samples,” he said. The don added that, looking at the success rate, the dogs would have been able to pick the unique elements from samples that are pathognomonic of COVID-19. The 1st Vice Chairman, Enugu Chapter, Nigeria Veterinary Medical Association, Dr Idika Idika, also told Sunday PUNCH that the country had the ability to train and deploy dogs for the detection of coronavirus. The concern for him, however, was the untapped potential. Idika, who is also a Senior Lecturer in the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of Nigeria, Nsukka, said, “Yes, the potential is there but they are not using it, so one wouldn’t know if they do (have the resources). But there are some good dog training facilities around. It is also about identifying the right breed we can use for that. Another thing would be the expertise. “First, the facility has to be there, and second, the people that would do the training. But if given the right push, it shouldn’t take so long to achieve it.” Majestic K9 Group is one of such facilities. The Lagos State-based company specialises in working dogs training and deployment operations, among other services. In an interview with Sunday PUNCH, the company’s Founder/Director of Operations, Mr Idowu Abiodun, said there was no doubt that dog trainers in the country had the capacity to train dogs to detect COVID-19. According to Abiodun, the job cannot be undertaken in isolation. Due to the nature of the training, involving the participation of COVID-19 carriers and survivors, there needs to be a concerted effort led by the government, he explained. “We have a background understanding of how it is done and how dogs are made to understand the differentials between COVID-19 carriers and those that have been healed of it. It is possible as long as the odour can be sequenced. It is something that has to work in collaboration with the Ministry of Health or a relative office. “When collecting public data, it becomes very difficult as a personal entity because we will have to ask people who tested positive for COVID-19 to present all of their clothing while they had COVID-19, so the dogs can sense the difference while they were positive and negative, and this has to be done with tons of people. “This is a very difficult challenge to undergo as an entity, but in collaboration with the government, it becomes very easy,” he said. Regarding other requisite resources to undertake such a training, Abiodun noted that medical-grade detection dogs needed certain detection imprint equipment. He added, “They are not too expensive but just at this time, there is no call for it and we have not thought about investing in it. If there is a call for it, they are products you can get for less than $2,000. Would we say $2,000 is not affordable? “But you wouldn’t invest in something that is not (in demand) in the market and there is no urge for it. This is why right now, we don’t have such materials or reagents, but we can get them.” Some researchers have, however, questioned whether the process can be scaled up to a level that would allow the animals to make a meaningful impact. Moreover, most of the findings have not yet been peer-reviewed or published, making it hard for the wider scientific community to evaluate the claims, but scientists working on more conventional viral tests agree that initial results from dog groups are intriguing and show promise. As leading German scholar, Volk, noted, “No one is saying they can replace a PCR machine, but they could be very promising.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    