It looks like bandits are in charge of the country right now. Do you think the government is doing enough to handle the situation? Well, they say the proof of the pudding is in the eating. So if it appears that bandits are running the show, then it’s a very negative perception and it means that perhaps whatever is being done is not enough to address the drift. Now, what is my evidence? We know that in Niger State – I’m using the state for example because of the abduction of Kagara schoolchildren – three local government areas in that state are under bandits’ control. I mean, how can we have that kind of situation? In Borno State, we had some local government areas under Boko Haram control. Thank God the new chief of army staff gave a 48-hour deadline for troops to reclaim the local government areas. As of Wednesday, I think they have recovered one of the local government areas. I mean, it is so pathetic that a local government area should come under a flag other than that of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. Also in Katsina State, we have some local government areas under the bandits’ control. I think every time, we always talk about the Federal Government. But the state governments also have powers and they are not doing enough. Like in the case of Zamfara State, they are negotiating with the bandits, yet the bandits are still killing people; ditto for Kaduna State, though they are not negotiating with the bandits. What I am saying is that we have a situation where almost every state is facing this issue. It’s just that maybe in the South, the governors are fighting back as seen in the instance of the Ondo State. Overall, I think whether it is the federal, state or local government, they have to go back to the saddle and control this security monster because if care is not taken, things are bound to get worsened. You mentioned the example of Zamfara State giving amnesty to the bandits. The Nigeria Governors’ Forum also hinted during the week that they might resort to dialoguing with the bandits. Do you agree to offering amnesty to the bandits? I vehemently oppose amnesty to any bandit. Bandits, by definition, are outlaws, and in the case of Nigeria, they are insurgents. And let me tell you something, you cannot placate any insurgent, you cannot placate any terrorist. You can’t pay them enough; let me sound that note of warning. For almost five years, we have seen this amnesty option on the table and it has failed woefully. Let me tell you the reason. These bandits are ‘independent entrepreneurs.’ What happens is that even when you negotiate with one group of bandits, another group will continue with the attacks. Even when you pay all of them off, the next day, they will still attack the people. They are attacking people for sport and they want to draw blood. It isn’t about what you are doing or not doing for them. Also, these people have sponsors in the cities. The bandits in the bushes are just foot soldiers for those in the cities. Some of their sponsors may be living in big cities in Nigeria and some of them may even be living abroad. It’s a syndicate and this is not new – and this is why I’m so confounded when people are acting as if this is a new phenomenon. This phenomenon has been going on in the Sahelian zone for many years. At least I have been studying this for the past 30 years. They had been kidnapping people for a very long time. The French, who were spread across West Africa, had borne the brunt of this. It is the same group of bandits that you see in Mali and Algeria. It is basically a jihad. But in the case of the bandits, they are not zealots; their jihad is for economic purposes. In summary, it’s an economic jihad. They are marching in and they have found the North-West of Nigeria very porous, and so they are coming in and taking Nigeria to the cleaners. So why should we grant amnesty to foreigners who are on our soil to take over our land, farms, and even our wives? Where is that done? Whatever oxymoronic claim anyone is making, it is not acceptable and whenever I hear this outlandish narrative that amnesty should be offered, I ask, ‘What is this?’ Although anyone can have an opinion, I feel sad and ponder how we descended to this level as a country. There is this narrative that the bandits are mostly Nigerians and are fighting because of alleged injustice to them like the rustling of their cattle, poor welfare, among others. Do you mean you don’t buy into this narrative? That is the oxymoronic reference I made the other time. And the people backing this narrative don’t understand that it is a question of law and order. There is no dimension to this. I know it’s not possible, but if it is, they should go and do a census of those bandits attacking us. From the arrest reports and other data that we have, they show that we have a lot of foreign influence in this situation and that is what we are dealing with. Many times, I actually sympathise with government officials because they are helpless. The scenario is this: they are being attacked and they call the military and the police, but they get no response. So they are left to their own wits. And it’s funny, the bandits complaining of vigilantes’ attacks. The vigilantes only attack you if you are a bandit. They are bandits and they are afraid of being attacked by vigilantes and then they demand negotiation. And you know what? The first demand they usually make is for state governments to tell the vigilantes to step down. What does that mean? It means the only thing they fear is enforcement. And there are certain things that cannot be said openly to the media. But one of the things being said is that some of these bandits were people used by state actors for political campaigns and they didn’t surrender their weapons after elections. It’s like the situation in the Niger Delta when some leaders brought militants to do politics and after elections, they asked them to surrender the weapons. But they refused. We see Islamic cleric Sheikh Ahmad Gumi mediating between the government and the bandits. Is this not a good trend as far as there seem to be good results or is there any reason to be concerned? Well, I don’t know which school of negotiation or diplomacy that he attended. But I think maybe as a concerned citizen, he is just trying to intervene to see if he can try to resolve the problem. He’s meeting with the bandits – it’s good maybe because he has their trust. But we should not lose our perspective here: there are Nigerian lives at risk here and no one should be allowed to endanger those lives, including those of the military. I feel the bandits are just playing games with whoever they are calling to talk to them. However, his pronouncements on giving amnesty to the bandits are not very bright. What about people who committed acts of violence, killing and maiming citizens? Do we offer such criminals amnesty? Maybe if they don’t kill people and destroy communities, we may find a way to dialogue. But when you start killing people and destroying assets, you are a terrorist and the only place for a terrorist is the grave. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    