Afeez Hanafi The Association of Professional Bodies of Nigeria has said that insecurity in the country is becoming increasingly challenging, stressing that it is bad for the nation’s economy. This is just as the association appealed to the Federal Government to show commitment to engaging local professionals in project execution rather than opting for expatriates. A statement on Friday stated that the APBN President, Akin Oyegbola, disclosed these during the Board Meeting of the association sponsored by the Nigerian Institute of Building, a member of the APBN. He stated that the appointment of new service chiefs was a right step towards ensuring security of lives and property in the country, noting that there is a need for a peaceful atmosphere to attract foreign and local investors. Oyegbola lamented that the country had yet to recover from the effect of the COVID-19 pandemic and destruction caused by violence that stemmed from #EndSARS protests. He said, “The association will continue to emphasise the need to encourage local content development by engaging Nigerian professionals in areas where they have comparative advantages. It has been proved that Nigerian professionals can compete anywhere in the world. “We use this opportunity to commend the Federal Government and other African countries that are signatories to the landmark Africa Continental Free Trade Area agreement. The Association will also like to appeal to the nation’s professional associations to leverage this trade agreement that provides them the opportunity of exploring the different opportunities inherent in the various African markets.” The APBN boss also urged the government to invest urgently in making COVID-19 vaccines available to Nigerians. He added, “On the ongoing strike by the Non-Academic Staff Union and Senior Staff Union of Universities, the APBN appealed to the two unions to allow peace to prevail.” At the meeting, the Director General, National Office for Technology Acquisition and Promotion, Dr. DanAzumi Ibrahim, promised that the government would engage competent indigenous professionals in executing projects. He identified Executive Order 5 which he said the government was vigorously pursuing as one the ways to demonstrate such commitment, adding that the Federal Government was gradually moving towards the implementation of the Order. Ibrahim stated, “The Federal Government, through NOTAP, will be collaborating with associations, such as the APBN, and develop a database that will consist of a list of qualified professionals in the country as a way of making the Order work. “By doing that, we are sure that with the click of a button, we are able to know where to find who when projects are about to be implemented, instead of the tradition of looking beyond the shores of the land for professionals that will execute such projects.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com     