Tobi Aworinde A non-governmental organisation, Health4KidsTrust, has said children need to stay hydrated to improve their mental performance and enhance their educational experience. According to a statement, Health4KidsTrust, which was established in Auckland, New Zealand in 2015, operates in Australia and Nigeria, supporting healthy environments through regular health talks, aerobic sessions, and promotion of oral health in public primary schools. The group, in a statement by its Founder/Project Coordinator, Modupe Alofokhai; and Co-founder/CEO, Odion Alofokhai, said its team constantly encouraged the avoidance of unhealthy lifestyles that might lead to serious health consequences in adulthood. The statement read, “Children need to constantly rehydrate as water is the primary way to regulate their body temperature. This action will help facilitate alertness of children’s mental states for optimal learning, hence water bottles have been distributed to various public primary schools across Nigeria by the Health4KidsTrust charitable organisation. “Health4KidsTrust aims to reach 20 public primary schools across Nigeria, including Lagos, Ogun, Oyo, Edo, Benue, Delta, Ondo, Osun, Akwa Ibom, and the Federal Capital Territory, to mention but a few. The team hopes to impact pupils between ages three and 12 years old and a total number of about 6,000 by 2022.” The organisation added that it had distributed first aid boxes to sickbays in schools across Nigeria and supplied washbasins to schools across 10 states and the Federal Capital Territory. It further noted that, through its Student Support Scheme, underprivileged pupils in public primary schools received school bags, mathematical sets, school sandals, lunch bags, and writing materials, among others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com