FRIDAY OLOKOR, ADELANI ADEPEGBA, CHUKWUDI AKASIKE, JESUSEGUN ALAGBE, MAIHARAJI ALTINE and ABIODUN NEJO The abducted schoolgirls of Government Girls Secondary School, Jangebe, Talata-Mafara Local Government Area of Zamfara State, may regain freedom today. A very competent source informed Sunday PUNCH on Saturday that negotiations with the bandits who kidnapped the schoolgirls had reached a very advanced stage, saying “they may be in Gusau (Zamfara State capital) today.” Nevertheless, the Nigeria Police Force has said it will not suspend the ongoing joint rescue operation with the military and the Department of State Services to rescue the schoolgirls from their abductors’ hands. Bandits on Friday morning kidnapped over 300 schoolgirls at Jangebe. The girls were believed to have been taken to a forest by the gunmen, who abducted the schoolgirls by reportedly disguising as security personnel. The incident is the latest mass kidnapping for ransom by armed gangs in the North in recent weeks. A week earlier, bandits had kidnapped dozens of pupils and workers of Government Science College in Kagara, Niger State. The abductees were released on Saturday. Bandits had also last December kidnapped over 300 schoolboys from Government Science Secondary School in Kankara, Katsina State. Meanwhile, a source told one of our correspondents on Saturday that the Jangebe schoolgirls might be freed today as negotiations between the bandits and authorities had almost been concluded. According to the source, the kidnapped schoolgirls were kept in a forest between Dangulbi and Sabon Birnin Banaga in the Maru Local Government Area of Zamfara State. “As I am speaking to you now (Saturday), vehicles have been arranged for their evacuation to Gusau town, the state capital,” the source said. The source, however, refused to specifically disclose whether money was paid to secure the girls’ release from the bandits. The source also said the kidnapped schoolgirls were 279 and not 317 as earlier reported by the media – though some of the girls were reported to have escaped from captivity. In what appeared to be a confirmation that the girls would be released anytime soon, a parent of one of the kidnapped schoolgirls, Mallam Garba Ibrahim, told Sunday PUNCH on the phone that “we have been intimated by the authorities of this good news.” Another parent, who pleaded anonymity, also said, “They told us that we should relax because our children have already been released by their captors.” The parent said two of his daughters were among the kidnapped schoolgirls. Also speaking, the father of three of the kidnapped schoolgirls, Mohammed Gashi, said he had been intimated of the positive development. Gashi said he had four daughters in the school, narrating that his fourth daughter was able to escape from the school premises during the abduction. Gashi said he was in his house when he received the news that the bandits had agreed to release his daughters. “You cannot imagine how happy I was when the news came to me that our children will be released soon,” he said. “I have been unable to sleep since the children were abducted because their mother died when she (the mother) was kidnapped two years ago,” he added. However, the Zamfara Police Public Relations Officer, Mohammed Shehu, refused to confirm whether the girls would be freed or not. “When tomorrow comes, we would know. For now, no further comment on the matter,” he said in a response to questions from one of our correspondents. We expect good news anytime from now –Zamfara govt Meanwhile, the Zamfara State government says it is expecting good news on the abducted schoolgirls. The state government, however, refused to either confirm or deny the rumours that the state and the abductors had reached a truce concerning the expected release of the schoolgirls. But the state Commissioner for Information, Suleman Anka, who spoke with one of our correspondents, insisted that the state was hoping to welcome the schoolgirls soon. He said, “We are hoping that they (the schoolgirls) would be back soon. We have that hope and belief. We are expecting good news concerning them soon. That is all I can tell you.” We aren’t going back on joint rescue operation, police insist Nevertheless, the Nigeria Police Force has said it will not suspend the ongoing joint rescue operation by the police, military and men of the Department of State Services in Zamfara State. The Force spokesman, Frank Mba, said this in an interview on Saturday. When asked if the rescue operation would be suspended on account of the reported negotiation initiated by the state government, Mba said, “Our operations are still ongoing.” He declined further comments and also refused to comment on the negotiation process. Prodded about an update on the rescue operation, Mba said, “That’s a very sensitive operation and we don’t disclose such information. At the right time, we shall brief Nigerians.” The Inspector-General General of Police, Mohammed Adamu, on Friday dispatched two helicopters and operatives for the rescue of the abducted schoolgirls. Adamu also disclosed that the military, police, and DSS operatives had commenced coordinated search and rescue operations in Zamfara State. Zamfara govt gifts Kankara schoolboys’ abductor free education As part of the amnesty-for-bandits initiative of the Zamfara State government, the brains behind the abduction of over 300 schoolboys in Kankara, Katsina State last December, Awwalun Daudawa, will get the support of the state government to return to school. The Special Adviser to the state Governor on Media and Communications, Zailani Bappa, told Sunday PUNCH that Daudawa and his gang had recently embraced the peace dialogue of the state government. Bappa disclosed this to Sunday PUNCH while advocating amnesty for repentant bandits. He said, “They (repentant bandits) are living with us in the towns. As a matter of fact, you know the leader of the gang that kidnapped the Kankara schoolboys, Awwalun Daudawa, came and submitted himself to the Zamfara State government. “All his boys also surrendered themselves and their weapons. He is with us and said he wants to go back to school. The state government will assist him in his education. This is what amnesty for repentant bandits can achieve.” Daudawa, reportedly on the orders of the Boko Haram terrorist sect, led the abduction of over 300 schoolboys from their school on the outskirts of Kankara, Katsina State on December 11, 2020. The pupils were released six days later from where they were being held in a forest in neighbouring Zamfara State. Earlier this month, Daudawa reportedly surrendered to the authorities in exchange for an amnesty agreement. Zamfara State government said Daudawa and six other bandits handed over their weapons, swearing on the Holy Quran not to return to their former practices. APC faults Matawalle’s amnesty Following the rampant cases of banditry in Zamfara State despite the amnesty initiative of the state government, the state chapter of the All Progressives Congress has faulted the peace accord by Governor Bello Matawalle. In a statement, the state APC Caretaker Committee chairman, Lawal Imam, advised Matawalle to stop paying lip service to the security situation in the state, advising him to seek help in the fight against banditry. Imam said, “It is no longer news that despite the peace accord of the Peoples Democratic Party-led government in Zamfara State, these bandits have continued launching fatal attacks and kidnapping for ransom. “They have been engaged in maiming, raping, arson and other atrocities against the peace-loving populace of the state and the situation is on the increase in almost every part of our dear state. “It is pertinent for us at this critical time to draw the attention of the PDP-led Zamfara State government to the fact that the issue of the security of lives and property of the citizenry is beyond politics and rhetorics so it should be treated as such. “We, therefore, implore the Zamfara State government to, as a matter of responsibility, reorganise its security architecture, review its security resolutions to properly secure the state and salvage it from the hands of the bandits as the people of the state are no longer interested in your lip service and untimely politicking of buying unpopular politicians with state resources instead of concentrating on securing the state.” Reconsider your stand on repentant bandits, NHRC tells Zamfara Similarly, the National Human Rights Commission on Saturday called on the Zamfara State government to reconsider its stance on repentant bandits to avoid the elevation of criminality to a level where bandits would be dictating the conditions for negotiations with the government. The NHRC Executive Secretary, Tony Ojukwu, said this in a statement signed by the commission’s Deputy Director (Public Affairs), Fatimah Mohammed, in Abuja. Ojukwu said, “The commission is using this opportunity to call on the Zamfara State government to reconsider its concept of repentant bandits so that the state government does not elevate criminality to a level where bandits will be dictating conditions for negotiations with the government. “We reiterate the need for all the stakeholders to ensure the implementation of the Child Rights Act 2003, particularly the rights to free and compulsory education at least up to the Senior Secondary School level. This cannot be realised where the school environment is not safe and secure for continuous learning.” Rid Nigeria of bandits, MOSOP tells FG Due to widespread insecurity across the country, the Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni People says that the Federal Government is losing control of security and needs to rid Nigeria of bandits. MOSOP said Nigeria and Nigerians were under siege, adding that the only way forward was for the government to immediately take control of the security of lives and property. MOSOP President, Mr Fegalo Nsuke, said these in a statement on Saturday titled, ‘Insecurity: Nigerians under siege, MOSOP tells FG.’ The statement, signed by the Secretary-General of the group, Alex Akori, read in part, “The government should free the country from bandits. Over a thousand schoolchildren have been kidnapped in Nigeria following the upsurge of banditry in northern Nigeria.” “The security situation suggests that things are getting out of control and the government is failing to provide security for the citizens,” Nsuke added. Pray for schoolgirls’ release, PFN tells Christians The Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria on Saturday called on Christians to intensify prayers for the freedom of the abducted Zamfara schoolgirls. The PFN President, Dr Felix Omobude, in a statement by the fellowship’s spokesperson, Simbo Olorunfemi, said the spate of abductions of schoolchildren was worrisome. Omobude said, “We are disturbed that this incident is coming on the heels of the abduction in Kankara, Katsina State, and Kagara, Niger State. The PFN empathises with the students, their families, the government and the people of Zamfara State. “We urge all Christians to pray fervently for the release of the students and for an improvement in the security situation of the country. “We call on the government to intensify efforts at strengthening the level of security all over the country, with a worrisome upsurge in all sorts of criminal activities, with bandits, kidnappers and terrorists running riot.” Abductions to cripple northern children’s education –CNG Bothered by the incessant abductions of schoolchildren in the North, the Coalition of Northern Groups described the situation as a “grand design” to cripple the education of children in the region. CNG spokesperson, Abdul-Azeez Suleiman, in a statement in Abuja on Saturday, said the President (Buhari) owed the country the duty of explaining the glaring failure of his regime in providing security particularly in the northern region. Suleiman said, “We call on northern leaders to interrogate the extent of levity of the federal authorities in not being able to anticipate and checkmate the manoeuvres of marauding bands of criminals that roam northern communities and operate at will, targeting soft spots like schools. “We see the recent escalation of kidnappings of schoolchildren as a grand design to cripple the educational viability of the northern region after having messed up its economy and mutual cohesion. “No doubt, the past few days have been difficult for everyone – difficult for the abducted pupils, parents and the families of the captives emotionally, practically and, of course, financially.” Ganduje orders closure of additional four universities Amid the rising insecurity, particularly the kidnapping of pupils from schools, Kano State Governor Abdullahi Ganduje, on Saturday, ordered the closure of additional four tertiary institutions in the state. Ganduje named the affected institutions as RMK College of Advanced and Remedial Studies, Tudun Wada; School of Environmental Studies, Gwarzo; School of Rural Technology and Entrepreneurship Development, Rano; and ABCOAD, Dambatta, Kano. The state Commissioner for Higher Learning, Dr Mariya Bukure, in a statement, said the schools’ closure was with immediate effect. To this end, students of the affected schools were ordered to vacate their campuses as soon as possible. The state government said the date of resumption would be communicated to the students when the security situation improved. The state government on Friday ordered the closure of 12 boarding secondary schools located on the outskirts of the state, a decision said to be informed by the latest abduction of over 300 Zamfara pupils. Rep urges collectives efforts to tackle insecurity The Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Federal Road Maintenance Agency, Femi Bamisile, has stressed the need for present and former Nigerian leaders to join forces to tackle the increasing wave of insecurity in the country. Bamisile said the experiences and wisdom of the leaders were much needed now more than before. The lawmaker said this in a statement in Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State, on Saturday entitled, ‘Students’ abductions: Bamisile calls for a more holistic security approach to tackle banditry.’ The lawmaker said the widespread insecurity across the country was unacceptable. According to the statement, Bamisile said this after he, alongside a former governor of Abia State, Senator Orji Uzor Kalu, and a business mogul, Jack Tein Rich, recently visited Gen Abdulsalam Abubakar (retd); Gen Ibrahim Babangida (retd); Niger State Governor, Alhaji Abubakar Bello; and traditional rulers in Niger State after the abduction of over 40 students and teachers at the Government Science Secondary School in Kagara District. Bamisile, who stressed the need for a better and holistic approach to stemming the tide of insecurity ravaging the country, said, “The unabated banditry in some parts of Nigeria is becoming worrisome, unpleasant and barbaric, hence the need to arrest the development without further delay.” “The Federal Government under President Muhammadu Buhari is worried as a result of the ugly situation in the country, hence the need for the people to cooperate with the government at all levels to ensure peaceful coexistence in the country,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 