Nike Popoola FBNInsurance, a life insurer and a member of the SANLAM Group, said it partnered Collinson, a global leader in travel, international health insurance and assistance solutions, to launch SmartHealth International, a market specific international health insurance product for critical medical conditions. It disclosed this in a statement on Thursday titled ‘FBNInsurance partners Collinson to launch HealthCare Product’. To address the health insurance gap in the Nigerian market between domestic and international health insurance products, the firms partnered to deliver affordable health insurance products for Nigerian employers, desirous of protecting and giving peace of mind to their employees and families, it stated. The statement said NAICOM approved SmartHealth International was designed to complement local healthcare cover by providing cover for treatment abroad if an employee or family member developed a critical medical condition that could not be adequately treated in Nigeria. The statement said, “FBNInsurance, a leader in life insurance in the country, delivers products that help customers enjoy the peace of mind that comes from managing the risks of everyday life and the introduction of a health insurance proposition complements its portfolio strategy. “With national presence in strategic geographical locations across the country, FBNInsurance will market SmartHealth International across Nigeria, while partnering with Collinson to leverage its in-house international insurance and assistance expertise to provide international access to an extensive network of Collinson certified medical providers.” Speaking on the launch, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, FBNInsurance, Val Ojumah, said, “At FBNInsurance, one of our primary objectives is to help people, businesses and communities get back on their feet when the unexpected happens and it has never been more pertinent than now to offer our customers more choice and peace of mind when it comes to their healthcare. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com