Yesterday, the 14th of February was St Valentine’s Day; one of the most widely celebrated annual traditions globally. Renowned as the festival of romantic love, the day heralds a whole lot of gift-giving and receiving. It is literally a sub-economic stimulant, triggering significant income across the luxury, retail, hospitality, and travel sectors. Some of us typically express our affections through cards, letters, flowers, presents to our spouse or partner while others might arrange a romantic meal in a restaurant, a romantic night out or exquisite trips to resorts, to mention but a few. While we all love people every day in our unique way, we can all agree that the COVID-19 pandemic changed the way we navigate the economic terrain and our social lives. One rare but positively significant impact of the pandemic was the quarantine period, which afforded families quality time with their loved ones, though unanticipated. Children were able to bond with their parents, and lovers became inevitably inseparable, building memories together at a very challenging time. All these preceding events shaped this year’s St. Valentine’s Day into something much more special. Holistically, the celebration has evolved over the years with creative and colourful ways of celebrating love. While some are now cliché and somewhat fickle, there are still some indelible ways to make the day special. But who says you can only give these sorts of gifts on Valentine’s Day or who says you only have to give material or monetary gifts to celebrate love? Have you ever thought about how your loved one would respond to a gift of a lifetime? A legacy present? Imagine a gift so valuable it keeps on giving – a gift of Legacy and assurance. We know Valentine’s Day is over and you might have spent it the best way you saw fit, but love is still in the air, and its season very much alive. So, why not look into the gift of insurance? Although not your typical gift, but in the face of rising uncertainties, giving our loved ones something valuable that assures peace of mind, financial security and helps them create wealth could be the mother of all romantic gestures. Insurance, as we all know it, is one reliable means of protection from financial loss. It is a risk management tool that is primarily used to hedge persons or possessions against the risk of a contingency or uncertain loss. Leadway Assurance Company Limited, a foremost underwriter, insuring happiness in the lives of many individuals and families for over five decades of its existence, offers so many products that protect those you love dearly. We all believe in the notion that if you say you love someone, then you should back it up with some form of affirmative gesture. How compelling would you back up your love? The Leadway Lifestyle Protection Plan (LLPP) is the perfect gift to back up your love. It is designed to help you, and your loved one maintain your lifestyle even in the event of any specified unfortunate event that might occur. It covers death, critical illness, accidental permanent and total disability and even death or critical illness due to Covid 19. It gives you peace of mind that, come what may, you are covered, and if the inevitable happens, you will be leaving behind a lasting legacy and something tangible your loved ones can fall back on. Now, is this not a gift that keeps on giving? Want to know more about the Leadway Lifestyle Protection Plan (LLLP)? Please reach out to Bridget on +234 808 857 7811 or send a DM to us on Social Media -@LeadwayAssurance on Facebook & Instagram and @Leadwayinsure on Twitter or send an email to Lcs@leadway.com. You can also request a call back from our experienced advisors by visiting www.leadway.com/call-me