ALEXANDER OKERE and ABIODUN NEJO The Peoples Democratic Party has called for the immediate and unconditional release of a former aide to the Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State, Salihu Yakasai, from security custody. The PDP described as unacceptable, the arrest and detention of Salihu, the son of elder statesman, Tanko Yakasai, by security operatives over his criticism of the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) as regards insecurity in the country. Salihu, was sacked by Ganduje on Saturday. The aide, who had criticised Buhari some months back, was sacked but later reinstated by the Kano governor. The PDP in a statement signed by its Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said Salihu’s ordeal was a sad reminder of the sudden disappearance of another known critic of the Buhari regime, Abubakar Idris, popularly known as Abu Hanifa Dadiyata, since August, 2019. “The PDP reminds agents of the APC-led administration that Nigeria is a democratic nation and that the rights of citizens, including their freedom of expression, within the ambit of the law, are firmly guaranteed in the 1999 Constitution (as amended) and as such, must be respected. Our party, therefore, rejects the arrest of Salihu Yakasai for joining other patriotic Nigerians in demanding a presidential commitment of a decisive action to rescue the abducted Zamfara schoolgirls as well as to end all acts of terrorism in our country.” Also, a former Governor of Ekiti State, Ayodele Fayose, on Saturday joined the call for the immediate release of Salihu. Fayose described Salihu’s sack by Ganduje and his arrest by security agents as “another sad commentary on how low this All Progressives Congress government of President Muhammadu Buhari has gone.” The former governor, in a tweet, also praised the former aide for his courage to speak truth to power. He wrote, “That he was arrested like a common criminal by the DSS just because he spoke his mind against a President that is more like the servant of the people, is another sad commentary on how low this APC government of Buhari has gone. “Nothing can be more honourable than what he has done by standing tall amidst darkness and selfishness of leadership.” The Department of State Services on Saturday has confirmed that Salihu, a former media aide to Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State, is in its custody. The agency’s spokesman, Peter Afunanya, confirmed Salihu’s detention in a statement issued on Saturday evening. Afunanya, however, denied that the former aide’s arrest was connected to his criticism of the Buhari regime, TheCable reported. He said, “This is to confirm that Salihu Tanko-Yakasai is with the Department of State Services. He is being investigated over issues beyond the expression of opinions in the social media as wrongly alleged by sections of the public,” the statement read in part. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    