Lara Adejoro Specialist Registrar/Associate Fellow in Anaesthesia & Critical Care at the Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital, Edo State, Dr. Julian Ojebo, who has treated many critically ill COVID-19 patients in the Intensive Care Unit, says the experience has been daunting. Ojebo said the sickest patient he treated was on a ventilator for 10 days before he finally died. “The patient was morbidly obese and his Body Mass Index was over 60kg per metre square. He had asthma and we ended up losing him after 10 days of management in the ICU,” he said. In general, Ojebo said, critically ill COVID-19 patients are not necessarily the older patients. Rather, mortality is said to be higher in persons who have comorbidities like hypertension, restrictive airway diseases such as asthma, Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease, and diabetes, to mention but a few. The most common symptoms they present with are non-specific but include cough, dyspnoea, hypoxaemia, tachycardia, tachypnea, anosmia, dysgeusia, and by the time they present at the High Dependency Unit and ICU, they mostly have developed Acute Respiratory Distress Syndromes with Respiratory Failure. Tachycardia is when the heart rate is greater than100 beats per minute; while tachypnea refers to a fast breathing rate higher than the upper limit of normal which, for an adult, is between 12-20 cycles per minute. “For us to give some form of therapy to prevent respiratory fatigue, this rate would have been above 30 per minute, by which time they need oxygen therapy to survive,” he said. According to him, many of the patients that have died from coronavirus-related infection are usually those that do not present early and patients that have underlying comorbidities that have weakened their immune systems before coming to the hospital. “And when they have these clinical symptoms, they usually don’t do well — some do well but because most of the patients don’t usually present early, they actually go to very severe stages of the infection when they need invasive ventilation. “We also notice that most of the patients that finally die from COVID-19 are usually those patients with comorbidities,” he said. He said when such patient’s condition becomes critical, they have difficulty breathing, they feel like they are drowning and they begin to fight for life. Ojebo, a former first Vice-President of the National Association of Resident Doctors, said the death of one patient was 100 percent felt by the family members. “It’s not just statistics. When one person dies, it’s a huge loss to the family.As physicians, we feel very bad sometimes, but again, we need to brace up and give our best to the next patient struggling for life,” he said. A doctor’s typical day in the ICU Ojebo’s typical day in the ICU is usually depressing, knowing that one of his patients is on the verge of dying. He said the best highs are extubating patients — that is, removing them from ventilator and transferring them out of the ICU when they are stable. Noting that most patients who present early survive the virus, Ojebo said, “We’ve had some success stories over time, and we can only be positive that those patients that come our way will be treated and return home,” he noted. Ojebo described how it feels to see many patients figh for their lives. “Knowing that the patient is at the end stage, you have to call the palliative team to discuss end-of-life care with those ones that are still conscious. “However, for the unconscious ones, we discuss end-of-life care with their relatives. “Seeing your fellow human suffer from somethingwhich you cannot proffer a solution to, is actually heart-wrenching and heartbreaking,” he said. As experts, doctors know that they are expected to give their all to ensure that patients fare well, even when they know that some patients are not responding to medical care. “Sometimes, we tend to be moody; sometimes, we cry, because it may be someone we know or a fellow healthcare worker, or it may be a relation,” he added. To continue reading this story, go to: https://healthwise.punchng.com/ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    