Bola Bamigbola, Osogbo THE elders caucus of the Osun State chapter of the All Progressives Congress, on Wednesday, enjoined stakeholders to avoid utterances capable of generating disaffection. This intervention is coming on the heels of a statement made by the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola. He, while revalidating his party membership at his Ifofin Ward 8, Ilesa, said, killers have joined the APC. READ ALSO: Children arrested for detaining father for 12 months over Lagos property In a statement by the Chairman of the Elders’ Council, Sola Akinwumi, the elders also welcomed Senator Iyiola Omisore into the APC. Akinwumi said, “Our party’s doors are opened to all committed, focused and progressively minded people who share in spirit and body, the vision of our amiable Governor in his stride to take Osun State into her rightful position among the Federating States in Nigeria. “Finally, all stakeholders are enjoined to stay clear of any utterance capable of generating disaffection and intraparty fractionalisation which shall not blow good for anyone.” Meanwhile, the Media Adviser to ex-governor Aregbesola, Mr. Sola Fasure, said, “He (Aregbesola) was not directing his statement to any individual, but if an individual feels it applied to him or her, that person should take it in good fate and amend his ways.” YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Why people like Gumi thrive Fasure, said this on a radio programme aired by Race Fm monitored in Osogbo, on Wednesday. He also said his principal was never a friend to Iyiola Omisore and was kept in the dark of any alliance with the latter during the 2018 governorship election. Chief Press Secretary to Osun State Governor, Ismail Omipidan, who also featured on the radio programme, said he would not join issues with Aregbesola over the statement, but warned aides of political leaders in the state against fanning the embers of discord. READ ALSO: My govt will empower one million youths annually – Soludo Omipidan, however, explained that Aregbesola refused to intimate Oyetola of his itinerary before coming to the state for the revalidation exercise. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 