Patrick Odey, Uyo Prelate emeritus of the Methodist Church Nigeria, Sunday Mbang, has said the Christian community in Akwa Ibom State will not allow cultists to become the state governor or senators in the 2023 elections. Mbang, a former President of the Christian Association of Nigeria, said this while fielding questions from journalists shortly after a COVID-19 prayer summit for Akwa Ibom National Assembly members, tagged, ‘Do you know what tomorrow will bring, what is your life (James 4:14)’ on Saturday in Uyo, the state capital. The cleric said God would not allow any politician who was fetish and engaged in cultism to be elected in the state. “I will like to tell Akwa Ibom people that anybody who is in a cult and who does diabolic things, the Christian community will not allow him to become governor of this state; we will not even allow them become senators or win any political position. “We want people who are clean, not diabolic, not corrupt, not cultists and so on, to rule us because our children, unfortunately, are in cults. We want clean people so that our children will know that since their fathers are not there, they should not be there too,” he said. He explained that the prayer summit was to dedicate all the National Assembly members from the state to God against the ravaging coronavirus pandemic. Meanwhile, the Senator representing Uyo Senatorial District, Bassey Albert, on behalf of the 10 National Assembly members from the state, praised God for sparing their lives while discharging their assignments amidst the pandemic. He lamented that the Senate lost five of its members out of 109 members in the current session, while the House of Representatives lost about four out of 360 members. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 