Olushola Odeyinde Nigerians on social media have described as ‘senseless’, the recent move by the Federal Government to make the National Identity Number mandatory for transactions such as the opening of bank accounts, payment of taxes, and voter registration. The PUNCH had earlier reported that the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami, while hosting the newly elected National Executive Council of the Association Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria in Abuja announced the proposed move of the government. READ ALSO: Lekki toll gate: FG, Lagos, police talk tough as organisers vow protests will hold But many Nigerians have described the proposed policy as unnecessary and ‘senseless’. @boma_ibim on Twitter wrote, “This is what we get when the government is confused and lacks direction. Stop stressing the masses.” @joshuaolawales wrote, “What’s the difference between BVN and NIN, both to me are biometrics. Why do we have to start linking NIN to our bank accounts now. What baffles me is: why now? When there is coronavirus, can’t this linking be moved to after these crisis? or they intentionally want an increase in COVID-19 cases? I just don’t understand what exactly is going on right now.” [ALSO READ] Herdsmen crisis: Sunday Igboho’s strategy cannot work in Oyo, says Makinde’s aide Another tweep, @iam_Evera, wrote, “This country has never been serious. Do these people realise this whole exercise is stressful? It took me days to link my BVN with my bank accounts, now they have brought NIN to replace the former claiming it was not backed by law.” “What then is the use of BVN? Because both NIN and BVN carry the same information and data,” @JustAManLikeMe asked. “Making NIN mandatory for a bank is senseless. Bank users are not Nigerians and it is not every foreigner that is due to have NIN,” Ogunwale Ololade wrote on Facebook.” YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Schools, hospitals shut as herdsmen attack Ogun communities, kill two But Ray Momoh opined, “NIN would have been effective if the NIMC division is created in all local government offices in the country. There, new babies born can be registered at birth and NIN number got.”