Armstrong Bakam, Bauchi The Bayelsa State Governor, Douye Diri, has said the feud between the governors of Bauchi and Benue states, Bala Mohammed and Samuel Ortom, respectively, over Fulani herders’ crisis is worrisome. He called on the two governors to sheath their swords. Mohammed and Ortom have engaged in a war of words over herders and farmers’ clashes in the country, which have resulted in the loss of many lives and property. Diri made the appeal during a courtesy visit to the Bauchi State governor at the Government House on Thursday. He asked the national Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Uche Secondus, to intervene in the conflict between the two governors. He said, “Concerning the raging current issue between two brother governors of the same party, may I cease this opportunity to advice and call on both of you who are members of our great party to please, cease further actions and reactions on the burning national security issues. “I want to also use this opportunity to call on our party to immediately intervene and resolve whatever issues that are still yet unresolved amicably. “It is very disturbing to read on the pages of newspapers about two gentlemen, who mean so well for their states and who are doing so well in their states, to be engaged in this conflict on the pages of newspapers and other media outlets.” Mohammed said there was no disharmony between him and his Benue State counterpart, pointing out that they were courageous enough to discuss a burning national issue, which he would do everything within his powers to deescalate in such a way that it would not bring injury to his party and national unity. Mohammed said, “I was just lamenting that primordial cordial relationship has been destroyed by suspicion and mistrust. I was not doing anything in any way to insult or to cause injury to my friend and brother that we have worked together at the cabinet and now as governors.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 