Oluwatosin Omojuyigbe Magistrate Oyebimbola Adelakun of the Lagos State Mobile Court has sentenced a fake soldier, Kabiru Mohammed, to six weeks’ imprisonment for assault and impersonation. The 25-year-old was said to have attacked officials of the Lagos State Task Force on Environment and Special Offences (Enforcement) Unit after an enforcement exercise. Operatives of the agency were reportedly coming from the operation with over 150 impounded motorcycles loaded in three trucks when Mohammed, whose commercial motorcycle was also impounded, mobilised miscreants and attacked the team with weapons, including stones, bottles and iron rods. READ ALSO: Guard electrocuted while plucking pawpaw in Lagos The Chairman of the task force, Shola Jejeloye, said Mohammed was apprehended alongside his motorcycle painted in military camouflage around the Airport Bus-stop on the Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway. He said, “The fake soldier was arrested after the attack and during investigation at our office, it was discovered that he was an impersonator. “The man later confessed to having only claimed to be a soldier to retrieve his impounded commercial motorcycle and that he painted his motorcycle in Nigerian Army camouflage to evade arrest from security agents while engaging in commercial activities on restricted routes.” Mohammed was arraigned on three counts bordering on assault, conduct likely to cause a breach of public peace and impersonation. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Herder attacks 18-year-old over alleged stolen cow in Bayelsa He pleaded guilty to the charges. Following his plea, Magistrate Adelakun sentenced him to six weeks in jail with an option of a fine of N40,000. The task force chairman urged members of the public to stop impersonating security agents to commit crimes, saying anyone caught would be dealt with in accordance with the law. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com