Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti Following shutdown of its physical classes and laboratories by the Ekiti State COVID-19 Response Task Force following violation of guidelines, the management of the Federal University, Oye Ekiti, on Sunday appealed to the university community and the public to remain calm and shun distractions that could hamper their academic target. FUOYE Deputy Director, Corporate Information Services, Adeyinka Ademuyiwa, said the university had taken steps on the observations of few infractions against COVID-19 protocol during a lecture in a classroom/ laboratory. Ademuyiwa, in a statement, titled, ‘FUOYE management’s response to Ekiti NCDC visit’, assured the university community of their safety. The Coordinator, Ekiti State COVID-19 Response Task Force, Prof. Mobolaji Aluko, had, following widespread violation of COVID-19 guidelines observed during a surprise visit to FUOYE on Friday, directed the university authorities to shut down all physical classes and laboratories until further notice. But Ademuyiwa said, “The management has immediately directed the university community, particularly students and staff to follow strictly the guidelines established for post-COVID resumption of academic activities, which stipulated virtual lecture delivery mode for large classes and compulsory wearing of masks on campus. “Other measures taken include monitoring of lectures and enforcement of compliance by the university committee task force; immediate reticulation of water for hand washing on both campuses and display of more banners and posters for more sensitisation and compliance and provision of more sanitisers and infrared thermometer in strategic locations.” The management urged the university community to “stay focused and shun distractions that could jeopardise our goal of finishing 2019/2020 academic session as scheduled.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com