ALEXANDER OKERE The Atiku Support Organisation has condemned what it described as the continued intimidation and arrest of Nigerian youths by the Federal Government for speaking up on insecurity. The group made this known in a statement signed by its Director-General, Abubakar Babawo, and National Publicity Secretary, Dr El Mo Victor, on Saturday, while reacting to the arrest and detention of Salihu Yakasai, a former aide to the Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje. It, therefore, called on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) and the police to focus their strengths on fighting banditry and terrorism. It said, “The Atiku Support Organisation observed with great displeasure the continued intimidation, arrest, and abduction of young Nigerians who desire a better and secure nation and are consequently calling on President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC government to wake up from slumber. The Nigerian youth have not forgotten how Abubakar Idris Usman, popularly known as Dadiyata, was abducted on August 1, 2019, allegedly by the security agents of this non-performing and sleepy government of President Muhammadu Buhari for criticising the government. “Yesterday, February 26, 2021, a patriotic young Nigerian, Mr Somto Onuchukwu, was arrested by the police for calling out the President’s ineffectiveness in handling the insecurity situation in the country. Maybe we need to remind the Buhari government, the police, and the men of the Department of State Services that as citizens, it’s the duty of every Nigerian, regardless of the political divide, to speak up and put this failed government on its toes.” “In fact, keeping quiet when things are going wrong in the country should be considered a crime. Maintaining a sealed lip is tantamount to aiding, abating and reinforcing the failure of this government, and someday, those who keep silent for whatever reason may eventually become a victim of their silence because terror knows no political affiliation.” The group said every Nigerian has the right to freedom of expression, guaranteed by Section 39(1) of the Constitution and Article 19 of the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights. It added, “Therefore, we call on the police and all other security agencies to free us from their custody, all persons arrested for voicing their critical opinion on the embarrassing failure of this government. We equally wish to advise the government, APC, police, and the Department of State Services to concentrate and show their talents to terrorists and marauding bandits that are having a fun-filled day killing and kidnapping Nigerians and not to be using it to chase innocent Nigerian youth for holding a different view.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    