Sunday Aborisade, Abuja President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, on Thursday assured Nigerians that the Petroleum Industry Bill which is before the National Assembly would change the fortune of the country by the time it becomes law. “The PIB is going to be a piece of legislation that in our estimation will change the economic fortune of Nigeria and of course improve the earnings by our businesses who are here and we want to attract many more investments into the oil and gas industry in Nigeria,” Lawan said. The Senate President, according to a statement by his media aide, Ola Awoniyi, spoke in his office while playing host to the British High Commissioner to Nigeria, Catriona Laing, CB. Lawan said the 9th Assembly would ensure the passage of the PIB as promised even though, he pointed out, the bill had ‘suffered from a demonic influence’ by refusing passage since 2008 when it was first introduced to the sixth Assembly. “We are so confident that we will be able to pass this bill by April. We want it signed into law by May and we want every stakeholder to be a winner,” Lawan said. The Senate President was also upbeat about the passage of the Electoral amendment bill now being processed by the Assembly. “I want to assure Nigerians that we have a target and we think it’s a realistic target. It’s doable and we have the determination and capacity to effect the amendment (to Electoral Act) before we go on summer break in June/July and our committee has done so much work,” Lawan said. On the security situation in the country, Lawan said the government was doing everything possible to change the tide. The Senate President referred to his recent meeting with the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), in which “our discussion centred on ensuring that the two arms of government work closely to ensure that we win this war as quickly as possible.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 