John Charles, Makurdi BENUE State Governor, Samuel Ortom, on Monday said he remained convinced that his Bauchi State counterpart, Bala Mohammed, is a member of Fulani terrorists group terrorising Nigeria. Governor Ortom, who stated this during a press conference in Makurdi, also cried out that his life was being threatened by his counterpart’s outburst. He said the Bauchi governor was part of the conspiracy against him, adding that with the manner Mohammed was attacking him, his life is no longer saved. READ ALSO: Gumi should be investigated for becoming spiritual leader of bandits – SOKAPU spokesman, Binniyat The Bauchi governor had criticised Ortom when he accused him (Ortom) of creating bad media campaign against Fulani ethnic group, stating that the situation had worsened the herder-farmer crisis. Mohammed had further accused Ortom of criminalising the entire Fulani across the country. Ortom, who reacted, said with the continuous support for Fulani herdsmen, his Bauchi counterpart “is one of the Fulani terrorists” that have invaded the country and terrorising innocent Nigerians. He, however, asked his colleague in Bauchi to go back and study his oath of office, asking if the oath of office he took did not tell him that he should protect the constitution of Nigeria. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: FG is supporting agric, it must subsidise herdsmen’s businesses – Yuguda According to him, the constitution does not allow foreigners to enter the country and bear arms against Nigerians. Ortom said, “Since he (Bala Mohammed) has chosen to vilify and intimidate me, I am compelled to think that he is one of the Fulani terrorists terrorising this country. “Why did I say so? This is the same governor, who took oath of office to protect the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The constitution does not give room to allow foreign armed Fulani herdsmen, Tiv people or Yoruba or any ethic group to come in and to carry arms. READ ALSO: New EFCC chairman, Abdulrasheed who? “But the Bauchi governor said every Fulani man is a global man; so, he could go anywhere at any time. It is quite disappointing to hear a governor who took oath of office to say that.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 