Okechukwu Nnodim, Abuja The Niger Delta Power Holding Company on Monday said it had signed a Power Purchase Agreement to supply electricity to Togo, a neighbouring country in West Africa. According to NDPHC, a firm owned by the federal and state governments, a total of 70 megawatts of electricity would be sent to Togo from the Calabar Power Plant in Odukpani, Cross River State. A statement issued in Abuja by the Head, Communication and Public Relations, NDPHC, Olufunke Nwankwo, stated that the company’s Executive Director, Generation, Kassim Abdullahi, disclosed plans to supply power to Togo while inspecting the Calabar power plant. The statement read in part, “He (Abdullahi) said the company already has a Power Purchase Agreement to supply 70MW of power to the West African nation – Togo, from the power plant and is in discussion to supply another 100MW to Paradise City in Calabar.” Abdullahi also stated that the company was working to improve power supply to Nigerians through the eligible customer framework. He said the Calabar power plant, wholly owned by NDPHC under the NIPP programme, had five gas turbine units, with a total designed capacity of about 600MW. Abdullahi described the plant as one of the best among the NDPHC plants with uninterruptible gas availability and a good dispatch network. He was quoted as saying, “Calabar is one of our best power stations under NDPHC and is one of the power stations with good gas supply. The power station also has a good dispatch network and some eligible customers as well.” He stated that the Calabar power plant’s total capacity available for dispatch was 560MW when all its units operate. Abdullahi said the eligible customer framework was vital for the power sector, stressing that most power stations in NDPHC were limited in their operations because of the dispatch challenges. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 