Andersen Global has said it is adopting a rebranding strategy for Africa, in line with its move to the unified brand name of Andersen, which is being rolled out globally. A statement said during an event to unveil the new name of the firm in Lagos, the name of Andersen Tax in Nigeria had been changed to Andersen. “The name change is apt and timely, considering our expansion of services to add business advisory services, risk consulting services, financial advisory services and technology advisory services to our traditional tax and regulatory suit of services,” the statement said. The Chairman, Andersen, Mark Vorsatz, said the firm initially viewed tax as a driver of legal service, with member firms adopting the brand names of either Andersen Tax, Andersen Legal or Andersen Tax & Legal. “It was important that we made it clear to the market that we were independent and did not provide audit,” he said. He explained that this was because the firm had acquired the rights to all the brand names of the defunct auditing firm, Arthur Andersen, in 184 countries, seven years ago. The chairman said operating under the single Andersen brand would demonstrate the firm’s unified and seamless approach, incorporating both legal and tax. He said, “For example, Andersen Tax Nigeria will become Andersen in Nigeria and Andersen Legal South Africa, will become Andersen in South Africa. “Andersen has separate law firm and tax firm arrangements in South Africa, but the plan is for these to eventually be integrated. “Andersen already rebranded in the US in 2019 and in Europe, Latin America and Middle East in 2020. “We rebranded by region in order to manage the roll-out in an organised, meaningful way and to address the characteristics within each region.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com  