Sodiq Oyeleke The Nigeria Police Force has deployed more officers to Niger State to ensure the safe rescue of kidnapped students, teachers, and other staff of Government Science College, Kagara. The police spokesperson, Frank Mba, made this known in a statement titled, Kagara abductions: We are committed to the safe rescue of all abductees, says IGP’, on Thursday. Mba also said that aerial surveillance had begun to ensure the rescue of the victims. READ ALSO: Power grid collapses, plunges Lagos, others into darkness The PUNCH had reported that no fewer than 42 people, including 27 students, were kidnapped when bandits attacked the school Tuesday night. The statement read, “The Inspector-General of Police, M.A Adamu, has assured the nation that the Force is irrevocably committed to the safe rescue of all abductees in the recent attack on Government Science College, Kagara in Rafi Local Government Area of Niger State and other related incidents. “The IGP notes that a joint massive search and rescue mission involving the Police, the Military, and other law enforcement agencies is ongoing to ensure that all abducted persons are rescued unhurt and reunited with their families. [READ ALSO] ESN: Army deploys soldiers, helicopters in Orlu “To give impetus to the rescue operation, the IGP has ordered the deployment of additional tactical, intelligence and investigative assets of the Force including four units of Police Mobile Force attached to Operation Puff Adder II, one Unit of Police Special Forces, personnel of the Counter-Terrorism Unit and operatives from the Force Intelligence Bureau and the Force Criminal Investigations Department. One police aerial surveillance helicopter has also been deployed. READ ALSO: Aisha Buhari birthday greetings absent as President’s wife clocks 50 “The Police component of the search and rescue operation is being coordinated by the Commissioner of Police, Niger State who is effectively harnessing all the deployed resources and working in sync with the Military and other law enforcement agents in ensuring an intelligence-driven, focused and result-oriented ground and aerial surveillance in the rescue operations and to bring the perpetrators to book. “The Inspector-General of Police, while calling for calm, has enjoined members of the community to provide the Force and the security community with useful, relevant, and timely information that can assist in the ongoing search and rescue operations.”