Joseph Olaoluwa InfraCredit, a specialised infrastructure credit guarantee institution, has announced the appointment of Ms Vivien Shobo to its Board of Directors as an independent non-executive director. Speaking on her appointment in a statement, Chairman, Board of Directors, InfraCredit, Mr Uche Orji, said, “After a diligent search and rigorous process, on behalf of fellow directors, I am excited to welcome Ms. Vivien Shobo to the board of InfraCredit as an independent non-executive director. “Shobo is a renowned risk management and capital market professional, with over three decades’ hands-on experience in credit risk management, financial advisory and assurance. “Her strong knowledge of the Nigerian markets and governance practices will be invaluable to InfraCredit as we grow the business and deepen our mission of unlocking long term capital for infrastructure development in Nigeria.” The Chief Executive of InfraCredit, Mr Chinua Azubike stated, “Shobo comes with a rich experience in risk management and corporate governance, having worked successfully with large and mid-cap corporates across varying sectors. “She brings on-board her independence and complementary skills, which should strengthen our board’s oversight, as we diligently execute our strategies to create value for all stakeholders.” Shobo is the Chief Executive Officer of FVS Advisory Partners. Before this, she was the Chief Executive Officer of Agusto & Co, Nigeria’s foremost Credit Rating Agency, a position she held for over a decade until December 2019. Similarly, the firm also announced the appointment of CEO InfraCo Africa and Chief Investment Officer, Gilles Vaes and Claire Jarratt respectively to its Board of Directors as non-executive directors representing InfraCo Africa’s equity investment in InfraCredit. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com