Deji Lambo The Lagos State Police Command has arrested a suspected fake soldier, Johnson Godday, for allegedly robbing one Onyebuchi Nwanga of his valuables in the Ogudu area of the state. The state Police Public Relations Officer, CSP Muyiwa Adejobi, said in a statement on Monday that Nwanga reported that two men dressed in military uniform attacked and snatched his Infinix Smart 5 phone, adding that policemen from the Ogudu Division, who responded to the distress call, arrested Nwanga. READ ALSO: Police comb Rivers creeks, forests for abducted monarch, lecturer Adejobi said, “When they raised the alarm, the policemen attached to the Ogudu Division on duty around the scene came to their rescue and arrested the suspect in Army uniform, while the other, also in the Nigerian Army uniform, escaped with the motorcyclist. The snatched phone was immediately recovered from the suspect. “In the course of police investigation, Johnson Godday confessed that he was attached to the NA 149 Battalion, Ojo, Lagos, before he was dismissed from the Nigerian Army.” In another development, Adejobi said a suspected pickpocket, Ayomide Sikiru, 27, who was arrested by men of the Rapid Response Squad, disclosed that he had stolen over 240 mobile phones from commuters. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Ikpeazu demands enforcement of anti-open grazing law in Abia The PPRO stated that Sikiru was arrested around 10pm after he successfully picked a Tecno Camon 12 from the handbag of an elderly woman when she was trying to board a commercial bus to Ojodu-Berger. “The suspect, after stealing the phone, tried to alight from the bus, but was restrained by a passenger, who challenged him to return the phone he stole. He denied stealing any phone until RRS officers stationed at Iyana Oworo searched and recovered the phone along with an iPhone 7 and another mobile phone from his bag. The owners of the phones were contacted immediately,” Adejobi stated. In compliance with the order of the state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, men of the RRS on enforcement of COVID-19 protocols impounded nine vehicles in Agege. [READ ALSO] Billiri protest: Gombe discovers additional corpse, arrests 16 Adejobi stated that the vehicles were impounded by the Commander, RRS, CSP Olayinka Egbeyemi, adding that they included six Danfo buses, a Toyota Hilux, Honda Accord car and Ford pickup. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 