Daud Olatunji, Abeokuta The Senator representing Ogun Central Senatorial District, Ibikunle Amosun has hit the opponents of the ongoing registration and revalidation exercise of the All Progressives Congress. Amosun described the exercise as “very necessary,” saying those opposing the exercise may have ulterior motive. READ ALSO: ACF, Afenifere disagree as Senate knocks govs negotiating with bandits Amosun, who participated in the exercise at his Itoko, Ward 6, Abeokuta South Local Government Area, on Wednesday, accompanied by his wife, Olufunsho and the Nigerian Ambassador to the UK, Sarafa Isola and many of his loyalists said he had been inundated with questions on necessity of the revalidation exercise. He said, “On the registration, people have asked me: is this thing necessary? Yes. Like yesterday, if you have anything maybe yesterday and you want to know where are we today, the best way of finding out is what we are doing… unless (people) who have any other ulterior motive. ALSO READ: Teenager stabs Lagos co-tenant’s daughter to death during scuffle “I am sure that all of us have seen that this thing is very necessary. Needless for me to say. Even me, the last time we did this, two of my children were not up to 18. Today, they are 18. They will have the opportunity to register. That’s even me. And everybody can say things like that. “I know there is a lot of benefits and advantages we will get in doing this registration.” He also called for calm among his supporters who alleged in some areas of the state that they were denied participation in the exercise. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Fani-Kayode approached me on planned defection to APC – Bello Speaking earlier, Chairman of the Ogun State membership registration committee, Ademorin Kuye, disclosed that he had summoned meeting of registration officials in the state towards addressing alleged denial in the participation of the exercise. According to him, there is no reason for denying anybody participation in the exercise, saying there are enough forms to capture all the intending members of the ruling party.