It has come to our notice that steps are being taken by certain persons acting in concert with one Mr. Chidi Okoro to dissipate funds, dispose of assets of Health Plus Limited (“HealthPlus” or “the Company”), lease a new Head Office and take other unlawful steps to exercise control over the affairs and business of HealthPlus – a company founded by Mrs. Bukky George in 1999 and is Nigeria’s first integrated pharmacy and the largest and fastest growing pharmacy chain in West Africa. As of March 2018, it operated 76 retail pharmacy and beauty stores, with presence in 11 States and the FCT, employing 800 Nigerians and was already the largest private employer of pharmacists in Nigeria The General Public, Banks and persons who may be negotiating or transacting with Mr. Chidi Okoro and his agents (allegedly on behalf of HealthPlus) are hereby put on Notice that: Despite the Court Order, the Alta Semper directors acting through Mr. Chidi Okoro and their agents have continued to issue directives to banks, suppliers, landlords and staff of the Company, take over bank accounts and IT infrastructure, and engage armed mobile policemen and private security outfits to secure Company offices under their control. They have now resorted to dissipating and disposing of generators, vehicles, porta cabins and other assets of the Company, and are in the process of relocating the Company’s Head Office to a new location. This Caveat Emptor Notice serves as a repeat warning to the general public, the Pharmacists Council of Nigeria, HealthPlus employees, loyal customers, vendors, bankers and all stakeholders to disregard all communication from Alta Semper Capital and or its nominees and agents, including Mr. Chidi Okoro, and to avoid any dealings or transactions with them in the name of the Company. They do not have any authority to issue directives on behalf of or bind Health Plus Limited. The dispute is sub-judice, and a preservative order has been made by the Court. Any persons who have any dealings or transactions involving funds and or assets of Health Plus Limited with any person/s other than Mrs. Bukky George (the Founder & CEO) do so at their own risk and would be acquiring litigation. Dated the 12th of February, 2021 BA LAW LLP Solicitors to Mrs. Bukky George 136 Awolowo Road Ikoyi Lagos info@ba-law.org