Gbenga Adeniji The National Chairman, Afenifere Renewal Group, Mr Wale Oshun, has advised the pioneer National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Chief Bisi Akande, to lend his voice to the restructuring debate and insecurity in the South-West and not APC’s ongoing registration/revalidation. In a now viral video sent to our correspondent on Monday by the ARG, Oshun said he had been ruminating on the issues affecting Yorubaland and the matter Akande decided to be preoccupied with. Last week, Akande described the decision of the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led APC National Caretaker Committee to embark on a fresh membership registration as an aberration. Oshun said, “I have ruminating and it’s based on my concern that of the problems besetting us as a people, my own great leader, Chief Bisi Akande, would talking about party registration when we as a people, the Yoruba, are beset with security issues. “People have been killed, kidnapped and women raped on their farms. Ordinary citizens live in fear. Who is not living in fear now unless the person has a battery of security men superintending him or her? Why of all these issues we are not talking about restructuring.” Osun, who is a former Chief Whip of the House of Representatives, said, “I would have loved to see a strong voice behind the governors in Yorubaland who have the courage to challenge the insecurity in their respective states.” “I would have liked to see the strong voice admonishing one or two governors who feel unconcerned or not doing enough for their people about insecurity. That is what we need a strong voice for and not for party registration.’’ “We say, ‘baba awon omo kekeke’ (Akande’s sobriquet meaning father of children), not even about me but the omo kekeke coming behind. They must have a country, a region and lives. That is what you should be doing for us now. Lend your voice to the issues affecting us; restructuring, insecurity. All other things will be taken care of. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   