A new report by the World Food Programme indicating that 3.4 million people are facing acute hunger while 300,000 children are suffering from acute malnutrition in Adamawa, Borno and Yobe states brings to the fore the depressing living conditions of children in the North-East. The WFP says that 8.6 million people in the entire region are food insecure, not sure of where the next meal will come from. A much grimmer scenario had earlier been painted when UNICEF predicted in a report that about 300,000 children in the region are likely to die of acute malnutrition in 2021. The UN body said over 800,000 children in the region were likely to suffer from acute malnutrition in the course of the year. This is no cheering news. Nor is it acceptable for a country endowed with the resources Nigeria has. This requires good and dedicated leadership to improve the welfare of the people. The North-East has been home to over a decade-old intractable conflict and violence occasioned by the Islamist Boko Haram insurgency. The Council on Foreign Relations says the terrorist group has killed around 70,000 persons and displaced an estimated 2.5 million people, including children, within the period. The WFP notes, rightly too, that violence and insecurity are causing mass movements of people, with 1.75 million living in camps or host communities within Nigeria and tens of thousands seeking refuge in neighbouring countries, including Cameroon, Chad and Niger. Many of those who left the country are now returning, needing food and shelter. Sadly, the provisions available are not adequate to meet the huge needs of the displaced persons, even with the best efforts of the Nigerian government and international humanitarian agencies, including the WFP. It is estimated that 4.3 million people are still entirely dependent on food assistance and that funding will continue to be needed to support immediate assistance, as well as longer-term recovery and development programmes. These efforts are not without human losses, as humanitarian workers have been abducted and killed by gunmen in the region in the course of assisting the displaced children and women. Last year, five aid workers with the Action Against Hunger, the International Rescue Committee, Rich International and the National Emergency Management Agency were killed by jihadists in Borno State, eliciting international outrage and condemnation. This resulted in the scaling down of activities of the agencies involved. Medical experts say the causes of malnutrition, which refers to “when a person’s diet does not provide enough nutrients or the right balance of nutrients for optimal health,” range from inappropriate dietary choices, low income, and difficulty in obtaining food to various physical and mental health conditions. Malnutrition can lead to, among other things, short- and long-term health problems; slow recovery from wounds and illnesses; a higher risk of infection and difficulty focusing at work or school. This is not a fate any country should allow her children to be permanently condemned to. But it is obvious that this is a result of the failure of leadership on the part of the northern state governors. They have failed to use the instrument of governance to improve the welfare of their people, especially children, in tandem with the law. They violate Section 16 of the 1999 Constitution, which states that it is the obligation of the state to control the national economy for the minimum welfare, freedom and happiness of every Nigerian citizen on the basis of social justice, equality of status and opportunity. Investments in health and education by the state governments have been grossly inadequate. Co-founder of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Bill Gates, had advised that “investments in primary healthcare, education and efficient deployment of resources will end inequalities in Nigeria.” But this is one admonition the northern governors have failed to heed, resulting in the over eight million out-of-school children and high infant and maternal mortality rates across the three geopolitical zones of the north. A change in policy direction and governance focus is imperative to reversing this ugly trend. If nothing drastic and wide-ranging is done by the subnational governments, this saddening reality will be accentuated by the raging rural banditry orchestrated by Fulani herdsmen and cattle rustlers in the North-East, which has made farming a deadly adventure. Farmers fear being killed by bandits while planting or harvesting their crops. Because there is a nexus between the subsisting insecurity in the North-East and malnutrition being experienced by the children population, the resolution of the security challenge is imperative. As a result, every strategy aimed at bringing an end to the Boko Haram insurgency and associated banditry should be top priority for the federal and Northern states’ political and religious leaders. The COVID-19 pandemic offers another huge challenge to the already existing causative factors for malnutrition in the region. The WFP Director-General, David Beasley, warns that with COVID-19, “We are not only facing a global health pandemic but also a global humanitarian catastrophe. Millions of civilians living in conflict-scarred nations, including many women and children, face being pushed to the brink of starvation, with the spectre of famine a very real and dangerous possibility.” The affected state governments should be stringent in implementing measures and enforcing protocols aimed at checking the spread of the virus. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 