James Abraham The Nigerian Export Promotion Council has said Nigeria has yet to maximise the opportunities available in African Union’s procurement system to boost its economy. The Chief Executive Officer of the NEPC, Olusegun Awolowo, said this in his keynote address during a training workshop organised by NEPC for North Central stakeholders in Jos on Monday. He said the country had not benefitted in its efforts towards increasing the inflow of foreign exchange into the country through the development of non-oil sector because registered Nigerian companies were not part of AU’s procurement network. According to him, the opportunities that abound for the Nigerian business community to become key suppliers and service providers in the AU agencies organs, institutions, and missions or regional offices, among others, were enormous. He lamented that taking advantage of these opportunities had remained a challenge to most Nigerians because they were not up to speed on the processes. Awolowo said, “The African Union Commission has allocated funds in addition to contributions from development partners towards procurement for works, goods and services in large scale for both the headquarters and its regional offices. “It is worrisome to state that even though Nigeria is a member of this great body and has contributed a lot to the development of AU since its formation with the core mandate of promoting Africa’s growth and development by championing citizenship inclusion and increased cooperation and integration, the Nigerian companies are yet to benefit from its procurement programmes.” Awolowo, who was represented by the North Central Regional Coordinator of NEPC, Oluwole Monehin, urged the Nigerian business community to join the AU procurement network to enable the country to reap the benefits of its membership. He said, “The need to mobilise registered companies from Nigeria to join the African Union Procurement Network cannot be over-emphasised. This is because any procurement successfully executed will be termed as export from Nigeria. “This will create a new platform to come up on board and increase their international exposure in addition to increasing the foreign exchange earnings of the country especially now that our economy is dwindling.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    