Toluwalope Kareem Nigeria is increasingly becoming a fragile state. The intricately, delicate security challenges we face have obviously overstretched and overwhelmed the country’s security architecture. That is why the current wave of existential threats to the peaceful and harmonious coexistence among disparate ethnic extractions of the country should not be treated with kid gloves. As it stands, the country cannot afford to take issues of security with levity, no matter how infinitesimal they might initially seem. The high level and interwoven scourge of insecurity among others, was said to be what informed the Central Bank of Nigeria’s decision to ban the trading and transaction in the popular digital currency— cryptocurrency, which has heavily been invested in by young Nigerians. While the CBN’S decision appears plausible and wears a nationalistic garb and thus seems to override all other considerations, I believe the issue of cryptocurrency in Nigeria has no end in sight. That is because technology, which is the driver behind this idea, is still coursing through different facets of society in a way never before imagined. To stop the stratospheric rise of digital currency completely, we must first shut down the Internet. In a digital world where digital currency stands to dominate trades, transactions and investments, a country like Nigeria with a crippling and oil-dependent economy cannot afford to lag behind in attracting investors and foreign direct investment. Aside from security threats, which makes sense and lends credence to CBN’s decision, other subtle factors that must have pressured the apex bank include but is not limited to the unfavourable political climate in the country. With the success of the #EndSARS protests and the donations from Diaspora pouring in for Yoruba activist, Sunday Adeyemo, otherwise known as Sunday Igboho, this government appears bent on not allowing unregulated financial transactions in the country. However, a side effect of the cryptocurrency ban which I believe can indirectly aggravate the wave of insecurity in the country and which has largely been neglected by the CBN, is the fate of many young Nigerians whose livelihood depends on that digital currency. These ‘millennials’ might be tempted to take to crime as a replacement for their lost jobs, since the government across all tiers seems not committed to providing jobs nor create an enabling environment where opportunities abound for the youths. In closing, I believe the ban on cryptocurrency is only temporary. Once the country is back to stability and has a strong political will to regulate that uncharted territory, digital currencies would be back, better and stronger. Muftau Gbadegesin, 27 Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com