Adelani Adepegba, Abuja The Minister of Defence, Maj.-Gen. Bashir Magashi, has inaugurated a 21-man committee on the reforms of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of Nigeria. Speaking during the ceremony on Monday, the minister gave the members a 10 – point terms of reference as contained in the Convening Order. According to a statement by the media aide to the minister, Mohammed Abdulkadri, Magashi told the committee to address the perceived administrative and operational gaps in the military sector, which he said must be refined and clearly defined in compliance with the current global acceptable 21st century standards. READ ALSO: Strike hits varsities hard, students battle filth, water, power problems The statement titled, ‘Minister of Defence inaugurates committee to facilitate the reforms of ministry of defence and the armed forces of Nigeria’ read, “The minister of defence further tasked the committee under the chairmanship of Air Vice Marshal Mohammed Umaru (retd.), to see their assignment as a patriotic call to national service and the need to play their roles in defence of the country’s territorial integrity against the infractions of the insurgents, bandits and kidnappers.” ALSO READ: Inflation rate jumps to 16.47%, highest since April 2017 He said the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), was optimistic that the recommendations of the committee at the end of their assignment would drive his campaign promise to return the military to its rightful place of global reckoning. In his opening remarks, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Defence, Musa Istifanus said the composition of the membership of the committee which has Air Commodore D. Abdullahi (retd.) as Secretary, was carefully selected and balanced to meet national representation and aspirations capable of delivering on their mandates. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Police affairs minister justifies ‘minimum force’ used on #OccupyLekki protesters In his remarks, the committee chairman assured the minister of defence that the members would bring their huge experiences and expertise to bear in the discharge of their assigned task. Umar said team work, dedication and commitment will be their watchword within the ambit of national realities. Members of the reform committee include a former Chief of Defence Staff, Air Chief Marshal Oluseyi Petinrin (retd.), Lt. Gen. Chikadibia Obiakor (retd.), former Assistant Secretary General Office of Military Affairs UN Department of Peacekeeping Operations, New York, Alhaji Goni Aji; former Head of Service, Rear Admiral A. Adedeji (retd.), Maj.Gen. AM Jibril (retd.) and Rear Admiral F. Akpan; Special Adviser, Technical, to the Minister of Defence, Maj. Gen. Ahmed Jibrin (retd.); Rear J. Ajani (retd.), and others.