Godwin Isenyo, Kaduna A former governor of Zamfara State, Abdul-Azeez Yari and Senator Kabiru Marafa, both members of the All Progressives Congress, have resolved to end their political feud which polarized the state chapter of the party. The resolution was reached during a follow up reconciliation meeting held in Kaduna, on Sunday. The two had met with the Governor Mai Mala Buni-led National Caretaker committee of the party last week. They both agreed to collapse their party structures into one with Yari as the state party leader. They also set up a 13-man- committee to further cement the reconciliation. An 11-point resolution was made public after the meeting. The resolution which was read by Dr. Minka’ilu Barau, read in part, “Hon. Abdul’Azeez Yari Abubakar is recognised as the leader of the party in the spirit of reconciliation, unity and progress of Zamfara as a state and APC as a Party. “That the supporters of Senator Kabiru Garba Marafa unanimously endorse the reconciliation move and consider it a welcome development for repositioning the Party to occupy its rightful leadership place in Zamfara State and Nigeria. “Discussion points shall be divided into two; (a) those that are for public audience which comprises all the propositions in the present submission and (b) confidential issues to be discussed in a closed-door session between the two leaders of the factions namely Hon. Abdul’Azeez Yari Abubakar and Senator Kabiru Garba Marafa. “By this statement, all parallel party structures under Senator Kabiru Marafa are considered dissolved.” Those at the meeting included: former governors: Alhaji Abdul-Azeez Yari, Alhaji Mahmud Shinkafi, Senator Kabiru Marafa, Ambassadors designate to Japan, Alhaji Hussein Moriki, among others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 