The rate of fire outbreaks in Nigeria in recent times has been quite alarming, and the socio-economic effect of these sort of tragedies can be disastrous as it is devastating. Many victims never fully recover from the losses incurred from a fire outbreak at some point in their lives. The damage to one’s health – as some get permanently disabled due to the unfortunate event, death of victims, loss of human and material resources, destruction of structures and properties, to mention but a few, is colossal. In 2020, Nigeria witnessed more than a handful of these unfortunate and devastating events. Between January to September 2020, there were over 60 recorded fire outbreaks across several states in the country. Lagos, being a cosmopolitan city and the commercial nerve-point of Nigeria understandably recorded a chuck of these fire disasters, as the state accounted for 54% of national incidents. In the first quarter of 2020, Lagos recorded two pipeline explosions at Abule-Egba and Abule-Ado communities. A total number of 21 deaths were recorded, while over 100 buildings and 11 trucks were destroyed. Within the same period, the famous Amu Plank Market in Mushin was gutted by a disastrous fire outbreak that resulted in the loss of goods and properties just as traders were warming up to the new business reality of the year. As people grappled with these unfortunate occurrences, the famous and ever-bustling Balogun market in Lagos Island also got engulfed with fire. Not to mention the aftermath of the civil unrest that happened later in the year, resulting in widespread arson of various Government and private structures, businesses, incinerating properties worth millions of Naira. Unfortunately, these tales of infernos have continued into this new year of 2021. On Tuesday 26, January 2021, no fewer than 170 fully stocked shops were engulfed by fire at Alade market, Somolu, Lagos State. Fortunately, the Lagos State Fire and Rescue Service were able to salvage 101 shops while 70 others were affected in the fire outbreak. The official report stated that the affected shops had various items, including foodstuffs, gas cylinders, and other perishable goods damaged completely damaged in the fire. The incident’s actual cause is still being investigated, though it is believed that the gas cylinders in one of the shops further started the inferno. These incidents do not only claim lives; they take away breadwinners, parents, business entrepreneurs, and sometimes children. People watch valuables and treasured items that they toiled and sweated for, reduced to ashes. The psychological, emotional, and financial impacts of this alone are not something anyone would wish on themselves. Tragedies like these remind us all of the need to prepare for unplanned eventualities. Who do you turn to in such circumstances for help? How do you plan for eventualities? This is where insurance comes in. Insurance will provide succour in periods like these. It will give you the needed peace of mind, knowing that come what may, you, your family, and your business are protected by a guaranteed compensation for the financial loss. Leadway Assurance Company, foremost insurers with five decades of impeccable reputation in supporting individuals and businesses as they recover from tragedies like fire disasters; equipping them with necessary tools to mitigate loss, have the perfect solutions in planning for these kinds of eventualities. They have designed various innovative insurance products that effectively cater to every insurable risk; from Life to General Insurance, providing financial protection for those you love and your valuable assets. To get started, call their professional advisors now for further information via the virtual communication channels – 01-2800700, Social Media handles @LeadwayAssurance on Facebook & Instagram and @Leadwayinsure on Twitter or send an email to Lcs@leadway.com. You can also request a call back from our experienced advisors by visiting www.leadway.com/call-me