Dele Ogunyemi, Warri A  total of 48 political parties have filed a lawsuit before the Federal High Court, Asaba, Delta State, challenging the conduct of the March 6, 2021 Local Government Elections by the Delta State Independent Electoral Commission. The suit with reference No. FHC/ASB/CC/19/2021, instituted by All Grand Alliance Party, Mega Party of Nigeria and New Generation Party of Nigeria on behalf of others, is praying the Court to compel DSEIC to include them on the ballot. In the suit which was filed on February 19, 2021, the applicants are seeking an Order of mandamus compelling the DSEIC to comply with the judgement of the Court of Appeal of Nigeria in Appeal CA/ABJ/CV/507/2029, Advanced Congress of Democrats & 21Ors. V Attorney General of the Federation & 1Or and include the political parties in the list of political parties to contest the Local Government Election slated for March 6, 2021 and such order or further order(s) that the court may deem fit to make in the circumstances. According to the applicants, the Court of Appeal judgement had declared the de-registration of their political parties as illegal and ordered their relisting by INEC. They reiterated that persistent reminders of DSEIC for their inclusion in the meetings, activities and programmes which the Commission held with other political parties were rebuffed and that DSEIC completely shut them out unlawfully hence they are seeking redress in Court. Chairman of AGAP, Alex Oyoro, told journalists that the aggrieved political parties had taken the action to deepen the nation’s democracy. He said, “The relief sought by the political parties in the Federal High Court is to deepen our democracy because to disobey a judgement of court is worse than banditry, kidnapping and insurgency.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   