Sodiq Oyeleke The Nigerian army has recaptured Marte, an area in Borno state, from the hold of suspected terrorists. Brigadier General, Director Army Public Relations, Mohammed Yerima, made this known in a statement titled, “Troops recovered Marte killing scores of Boko Haram terrorists/Islamic State in West African Province terrorists”, on Tuesday. [READ ALSO] #EndSARS: Lagos panel summons IGP The statement read, “Troops of Nigerian Army troops this afternoon, around 3 pm, recovered New Marte and adjoining communities from the devilish Boko Haram terrorists. “This is coming less than the 48 hours directive earlier given to the troops to recover the town by the Chief of Army Staff, Major General Ibrahim Attahiru. “The troops backed by air cover from the Nigerian Air force, successfully charged through Marte town, destroying several Improvised Explosive Device and landmines laced across their routes and killing scores of Boko Haram/ISWAP terrorists and successfully recovered the town. “The gallant troops are currently in total control of the general area.” READ ALSO: Fake soldier arrested during Lagos robbery, pickpocket nabbed The PUNCH had reported that the Chief of Army Staff, Major General Ibrahim Attahiru, had given a 48-hour ultimatum to the troops of the Nigerian Army to clear Boko Haram from captured areas of Borno State. Marte, a local government in the troubled state, was recently reported to have been attacked and taken over by Boko Haram. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Court awards N10.6m against NNPC for blocking road Some communities in the state, including Kirenowa, Kirta, Wulgo, Chikingudo in Marte and Ngala local government areas, were reportedly having a strong presence of the terrorist group. The COAS, who on Sunday addressed the troops of the Nigerian Army Super Camp 9, Dikwa, gave the order that the insurgents should be cleared from the reported areas in the next 48 hours. He said, “Areas around Marte, Chikingudu, Wulgo Kirenowa, and Kirta must be cleared in the next 48 hours.”