Founder of New Generation Africa and Nigerian-born political consultant based in the United Kingdom, Daniel Ogoloma, has said that young people will play a significant role in deciding who emerges as President of Nigeria in 2023 when the tenure of the president, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), elapses. Ogoloma, who is an officer in training at the famous Sandhurst Military Academy and has deep connections within the UK conservative party, stated that the #EndSARS protest that swept across Nigeria in October 2020 revealed how coordinated and politically aware the country’s youth, who make up more than half of the population, had become and yearning for genuine change. According to him, the political consciousness of young Nigerians could possibly determine the outcome of the general elections in 2023. He said, “One demographic that will definitely have a major say in whatever way the election turns out is Nigeria’s 70% youth population who proved during the #EndSARS protest that they weren’t lazy and that they have the ability to mobilise themselves and advocate for a change they believed was needed. “Additionally, diaspora voices have also got stronger since the #EndSARS protest with many young Nigerians outside the country lending their voices to produce the change they want to see. “There are no youth leaders, a leader is a leader and Nigerians must wake up to that fact. “Nonetheless, I have been slightly naive in the past as I now know a few young people who participate at state level politics which is good. We must increase participation from young people and work out clear progress routes for them to reach federal level. “I am looking forward to working closely with a candidate that’s interested in pushing the youth agenda which is something myself and my team are advocates of. I have some of the most intelligent students on the planet working on my team who have worked with top UK Government officials and the military, as well as some of the best data analysts, so I’m confident.”