The Federal High Court, Abuja, on Thursday, refused to grant a former Chairman of the defunct Pension Reformed Taskforce Team, Abdulrasheed Maina, bail. Delivering a ruling, Justice Okon Abang, held that Maina’s application for bail lacked merit. READ ALSO: Maiduguri explosions’ survivors recount close shave with death Justice Abang said though it was at the court’s discretion to grant bail, the ex-pension reformed boss did not deserve bail after jumping the first bail. The judge said that Maina did not place sufficient materials before the court to convince the court that he deserves the second bail. He said the medical report brought from the University of Abuja Teaching Hospital showed that Maina was not under any medical emergency. YOU MAY ALSO LIKE: Bawa defends graft allegation, gets Senate confirmation as EFCC chair The judge said Maina was not only a flight risk but a proving risk, having fled to the Republic of Niger and Chad in violation of the court order. “He has disappointed the court,” he ruled. Justice Abang, who refused to grant Maina’s application for an order directing the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission to release his confiscated property, including a BMW Car, also dismissed his request for an order to set aside the Nov. 18 and Dec. 4, 2020 orders. The court on November 18, 2020, ordered the trial of Maina in absentia after he jumped bail. Also on December 4, 2020, the court ordered Maina to be remanded in prison custody pending the hearing and final determination of his matter. But Maina, who jumped bail last year and fled to the Republic of Niger before his rearrest, had on December 24, 2020, applied for another bail. READ ALSO: Children arrested for detaining father for 12 months over Lagos property Maina, through his lawyer, Anayo Adibe, on Jan. 20, approached Justice Abang in a motion on notice. He argued that the application became necessary over his worsening health condition. In the motion, the ex-pension boss told the court that he had reasonable and responsible sureties who were willing to act as sureties if granted bail. Debunking the argument that he had jumped bail, Maina said he fled to the Republic of Niger to have a kneel surgery. According to him, If the knee surgery had not been done, his leg would have been amputated. (NAN)