Peter Dada, Akure The Ondo State Governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, was on Wednesday sworn in for the second term in office, promising to continue tackling insecurity in the state. Akeredolu was sworn in alongside the Deputy Governor, Mr Lucky Ayedatiwa, at the International Culture and Events Centre, Akure, the state capital. The ceremony was performed by the state Chief Judge, Justice Olanrewaju Akeredolu. The venue of the programme, the Dome, was full to the brim against the earlier arrangement that less than 500 guests would be allowed into the arena. The programme was attended by dignitaries from all walks of life, including the governors of Ekiti, Edo, Lagos, Osun and Ogun states, Dr Kayode Fayemi,  Dr Godwin Obaseki, Mr Babajide Sanwoolu,  Mr Gboyega Oyetola, and Prince Dapo Abiodun, respectively. Also in attendance were the national leaders of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and Chief Bisi Akande; a former Senate President, Ken Nnamani; Senator Ajayi Boroffice; Senator Ibikunle Amosun; Senator Iyiola Omisore; traditional rulers, among other dignitaries. In his speech, the governor said his administration was committed to ensuring the protection of lives and property. He also called for the creation of state police as the only way to combat insecurity in the country. He said, “Our administration is determined to make our state safe for residents and visitors alike. We have had our share of security challenges since assumption of office. We have been able to confront these problems headlong. “This problem has been one of the main issues militating against development in the country.  Apart from the COVID-19 pandemic, the other debilitating issue is security. We are of the firm belief that it is high time the police central command became devolved to the federating units for effective monitoring. We have been relentless in advocating the establishment of state police. “There can be no other way if we are indeed serious about securing lives and property.  It is this incongruity which propelled the South-West governors to form a regional security network, codenamed Amotekun. The ultimate is to convince others to understand that devolution of authority is inexorable. Every state must be allowed to secure its space. “Amotekun has done very well in its short time of existence. It has been able to work within the law establishing it.” In the next four years, the governor vowed to consolidate on the programmes he started in the first term, particularly in the area of employment, agriculture and infrastructure. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 