Tofarati Ige The President General of the apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Professor George Obiozor, has berated the IPOB leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, and his conspirators over views that have made people pointed accusing fingers at Igbos as secessionist. Speaking at the grand reception in his honour by Ndigbo in Lagos, Obiozor, ormer Nigerian ambassador to the United States, insisted that Ndigbo were not at war with Nigeria. He said the Ndigbo would continue to seek justice, peace and fairness in all their dealings with everybody in Nigeria. He said, “The greatest affliction of man is insecurity. With insecurity, nothing happens that is positive. Among Igbo, one of the challenges we are faced with is security threat both within the Igbo zone and within the country as a whole. “The Igbo nation is not at war with Nigeria and we are not intending to go into war or demand a separate existence from Nigeria. So Igbo are not secessionists. “Concerning the problems and the fingers pointed at Igbo because of Nnamdi Kanu, Nnamdi is our son and he must listen to us!  The future of Biafra is well beyond the capacity of young men. “Everybody should stop utterances or actions that will or have the tendencies to put Ndigbo in present and immediate danger. That is what my message is in this matter. “Biafra requires mature and experience handling and not a child’s play. Children should stop playing with fire and children shouldn’t play with fire. Nnamdi Kanu is one of us. He is our son and he must listen to some of us because he’s one of us.” Obiozor, however, urged the Igbo to pursue restructuring with pride and dignity, saying that Nigeria must be restructured in order to reduce hostile tension among ethnic nationalities and move the country forward. He added that restructuring would address the issue of hostile contacts among Nigerians and reduce tensions. On his part, Ndigbo Lagos President General, Major General Obi Umahi (retd.), described the event as a homecoming for Obiozor. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    