One of the medical experts treating and managing COVID-19 patients is Dr. Oluwafemi Akinpeloye, who works at the Internal Medicine Department, Infectious Diseases Unit of LUTH. Akinpeloye says though the virus has no cure yet,  people who test positive for it and seek treatment early survive more than those who visit the hospital late when their condition might have deteriorated and requires oxygen. Sharing his clinical experience with PUNCH HealthWise on the various stages leading to some patients’ death, the infectious disease doctor says some of the victims, even before they eventually died, “knew they would not make it, especially those that presented late.” He narrates, “My experience in managing COVID-19 patients is one that I will never forget in a lifetime. “Managing COVID-19 patients has been on my lap since April 1, 2020, when the first case presented itself at LUTH. “From that moment, my life changed. We have been managing cases of Lassa fever, other communicable and infectious diseases, but COVID-19 is different. It is my unit—Infection Diseases Unit — that manages infectious diseases and  COVID-19 happens to be an infectious disease. So, it is our responsibility to treat COVID-19 patients. “Now, talking about what I saw in those that died, the fact is that most of them presented when their condition was already bad. People have been dying from COVID-19 and they usually die as a result of breathlessness. Breathlessness and low oxygen concentration signs of danger “When they come, you will see that physical sign of breathlessness. For some, when we check their specific oxygen concentration, we will find out that it is abnormal. “Normal specific oxygen concentration should be between 95 and 99. But when you check their oxygen concentration, you find it to be 75.  It is breathlessness that kills COVID-19 patients. Once they present with breathlessness and low oxygen concentration, then there is a problem.” Giving further insight, Akinpeloye said, “The disease itself  is just a viral infection, like many viruses that affect the body. But this one attacks and destroys the lungs and makes it impossible for the person who is infected to be able to take up oxygen. “The nose itself requires oxygen, distributing oxygen to the rest of the body. So, the disease makes it impossible for the nose to get oxygen. Once the lung fails in getting oxygen, it cannot distribute what it does not have and the person dies. Oxygen therapy, key in patient survival “So, the mainstay of treating COVID-19 patients has been, and will always be, oxygen therapy. “Oxygen therapy is the only way that we can really manage COVID-19 patients. If the patient suddenly develops breathlessness, there is no other means of managing that patient other than ensuring that the patient gets oxygen. “The idea of admitting patients in the hospital from the beginning has been that most of the people that contracted the disease who end up having issues are those that naturally have underlying illnesses. “They have hypertension, diabetes, asthma, ulcer, among others. So, COVID-19 comes and worsens their original problem. “When we admit them, we now have to manage their original problem, which has now become worse and then still manage the COVID-19 itself by giving oxygen. “I see a lot of patients who come in requiring oxygen to survive. I have seen a lot of them die from the infection.” He went on, “But If COVID-19 is picked up early; the chances of survival are high. Most of the patients that died had presented badly. As health workers, we already knew that their case was bad.” Akinpeloye  said that patients that died were“those that came in bad.” “There were some patients whose relatives I quarreled with for allowing their health to deteriorate before bringing them to the hospital. “Once their oxygen concentration drops below 90, it is a problem. They will not make it.” ‘Second-wave patients sicklier’ According to Akinpeloye, in this second wave, patients are sicklier. “They are very sick and require a lot of care. The virus is changing the way it attacks and there are even new variants. To continue reading this story, go to: https://healthwise.punchng.com/ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    