Dayo Ojerinde Residents of the estates around Lekki, under the aegis of Lekki Estates Residents and Stakeholders Association, have given the Lagos State Government and Lekki Concession Company, managers of the Lekki/Epe Expressway, conditions for the reopening of the Lekki toll gate. The association, in a statement on Monday, asked the state government and managers of the road to provide viable alternative roads to the tolled roads, implement round figure fees at the toll and immediately improve the tolling system technology to guarantee free flow at the toll gates before the commencement of tolling. The statement was signed by Mr Olorogun  Emadoye and Mr Gbemi Adelekan, President and Secretary-General of the association respectively. The association noted that its members have been victims of insecurity and disruption of movement since the #EndSARS protests in October, which led to the destruction and eventual closure of the toll gate and Saturday’s protest against the order for its reopening. “Our road experience prior to the October 20th shutdown of the toll gates was that of hardship and suffering, with the long traffic at the toll plazas. A tolled road is supposed to provide a quick, safe and motorable experience, where users will be happy to pay for. “Without a doubt, we are the only citizens in Nigeria that are forced to pay toll on a road that is less than 25km, completed in 14 years.   With the poor experience and services at the toll plaza, we are actually paying for inconveniences rather than for convenience, as we spend an average of 20 to 30 minutes to pay. We, therefore, ask for viable alternative roads to the tolled roads, implementation of round figure fees at the toll and immediate improvement of the tolling system technology to guarantee free flow at the toll gates before the commencement of tolling,” the statement said. While appealing for restraint among angry youth, the association called on the government to allow free expression of discontent in a way that guarantees protection of lives and properties. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    