Joseph Olaoluwa Allied Air has taken delivery of a B737-800 Aircraft worth about N8bn for cargo operations. The cargo aircraft will be deployed to COVID-19 vaccines distribution across Nigeria as one of its first mission. It is fitted to deliver medical supplies safely. The deal was financed through the Central Bank of Nigeria intervention fund but structured and delivered by Access Bank Plc. The Minister of Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, the Central Bank of Nigeria Governor, Mr Godwin Emefiele and the Access Bank Group Managing Director, Mr Hubert Wigwe, as well as other government officials received the aircraft greeted by a water cannon ceremony. Speaking at brief ceremony held on Thursday at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport Abuja,  the CEO Allied Air, Capt. Val Tongo, said the acquired freighter (MSN 36846) is the youngest 737-800 in the world converted to date. The CBN Governor, Mr Goodwin Emefiele, said, “The aircraft is funded through the intervention fund of the CBN but through Access Bank.” He added that the Nigerian aviation sector was opening up more investments into the country, noting that just three weeks ago, the minister commissioned another aircraft for Air Peace. He called on other investors to invest in the aviation sector assuring that the CBN and the Nigerian banks were ready to support them. Sirika said at the event that the aircraft would be dedicated to cargo and the distribution of COVID-19 vaccines across the country. Before the vaccines arrives, the cargo shade would be ready and the aircraft is also ready for distribution, he added. He also asked other operators to invest in the aviation industry to enable it double its contribution to Gross Domestic Product to five per cent or N450bn annually. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 