Leke Baiyewu, Abuja The Bureau of Public Procurement has denied knowledge of the contracts revoked and re-awarded by the Project Development Institute, Enugu, declaring the actions by the acting Director-General, Fabian Okonkwo, illegal. The Director-General, BPP, Mamman Ahmadu, who appeared before the House of Representatives Committee on Public Procurement in Abuja on Thursday, said it had received a series of petitions against PRODA, especially from contractors, who alleged irregularities in the contracts awarded by the institute. The committee has been investigating alleged the “procurement deception, staff victimisation and ongoing management problem” in PRODA under the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology. Ahmadu, who was represented by the Director, Energy Infrastructure Department, BPP, Mr Babatunde Kuye, recalled how PRODA requested for a certificate of ‘no objection’ to carry out selective bidding, which was initially turned down by the bureau. He said, “There were a lot of back and forth from PRODA to BPP. Along the line, we received a mail from the chairman (Daniel Onjeh), who was asked to step aside that we should not honour the request from PRODA on the grounds that the now suspended DG (Charles Agulanna) was suspended. Our response was that we are not aware of that and that we are dealing with the institution and not the person. “Along the line, we had complaints sent to us by some contractors who claimed they were the winners of the bidding in PRODA. Some claimed they have been given letters of award, some claimed they had already finished the job but that there was a threat by the management of PRODA not only to extort money amounting to N10m from them, but also to cancel and re-award those contracts.” The BPP boss noted that the bureau did not suspend the procurement process until the second petition was received. He added, “We directed PRODA to suspend further work on 2020 capital projects until they forward those documents to us for review. We also warned them of the consequence of refusing to allow the bureau or its officers to have access to their records. I have checked our records and till this moment, we have not received any letter of compliance from the institute. “Till this issue came up, when we received petitions, we never knew that they cancelled any contract. In fact, they don’t have any right or power under the law to cancel an ongoing process without informing the bureau.” Later while the lawmakers were grilling Okonkwo, he was asked to state if the BPP was notified about the contracts cancellation or not. Chairman of the committee, Nasir Ahmed, warned of the penalty for lying on oath. Responding, the acting PRODA DG said there was no notification. The House had on February 10, 2021, resolved to investigate the alleged mismanagement of the institute. The move was based on a motion of urgent public importance moved by the Deputy Chairman, House Committee on Niger Delta Affairs, Henry Nwawuba. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com 