Tunde Oyekola, Ilorin KWARA State Government on Thursday set up an independent committee to recommend solutions to resolve the agitation for wearing of hijab by Muslim female students who are attending public schools owned by people of other faiths/beliefs. Recall that Muslim stakeholders in the state at a press conference on Wednesday called on the state government to prevail on former owners of public schools in the state to allow female Muslim students to wear hijab on their uniform. The Muslim community said since the state government had taken over such schools, the former missionary owners no longer had control over the grant-aided schools in the state. The government held a marathon meeting with religious leaders, with both Muslim and Christian stating their positions and offering opinions on how to resolve the differences on the hijab question in grant-aided schools. A statement by Modupe Joel, Chief Press Secretary to the Deputy Governor, indicated that the meeting presided over by Deputy Governor, Kayode Alabi, appealed to all the leaders to respect their differences, live in peace and love, and join hands to raise a generation of children who will see one another as compatriots. She said that the meeting summoned by Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, “resolved to devolve into a committee that will specifically tackle the hijab question. “Members of the committee include the deputy governor (chairman), two thought leaders/statesmen from the two sides; three religious leaders from the two sides; Senator Suleiman Ajadi; Prince Sunday Fagbemi and Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. “The meeting stressed the need for every side to keep the peace and constantly caution members of their communities to avoid any action or comments that may disturb public peace.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com