Abiodun Nejo, Ado Ekiti The Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has urged residents of the state to embrace the health insurance scheme of the state to enjoy unhindered access to quality health care services. The governor lamented finance as a major flaw in the country’s health care system. Fayemi, who spoke in Ado Ekiti, during the unveiling of the N300m medical equipment donated to the state health care facilities, advised residents to take advantage of the equipment by visiting health care facilities close to them for assured quality service delivery. The equipment donated by Global Fund under its Resilient and Sustainable System for Health implemented by the Management Sciences for Health, included delivery beds, stethoscopes, drip-stands, cord clamps, weighing scales, episiotomy scissors, outpatient chairs, towels, 5kva solar power inverters, blood pressure and glucose monitors. The governor, who was represented by his deputy, Bisi Egbeyemi, said, “We recognise that out-of-pocket payments for health services is a major flaw of the Nigerian health system and has the potential to plunge individuals and families into poverty. I therefore appeal to all Ekiti citizens and residents to leverage on the SHIS that is currently being rolled out. “In addition to the equipment, health workers have been redistributed and will be trained to upscale their competency and ability to accurately diagnose illnesses.” The commissioner for Health, Dr Oyebanji Filani, who hailed the governor for his efforts in the health sector, said, “The donations will ensure 48 facilities across the state now have the right equipment to provide quality health services “This is a part of a broader system-wide strategy to improve the quality of health service delivery in the state.” He said, “Given the state’s focus on the quality of care, a continuous quality improvement plan will be instituted at PHCs under a network collaborative initiative and aggressive use of data will be support performance management and utilisation.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   