Joseph Olaoluwa Respite has come for three pilots out of the six pilots sacked by Azman Air in November 2020. On November 7, 2020, six pilots, one cabin crew member and three ground staff had their appointments terminated after they complained in a WhatsApp group over the delay in their October salaries. President of the National Association of Aircraft Pilots and Engineers, Abednego Galadinma, who spoke to our correspondent in a telephone interview said steps had been taken to recall three of the pilots dismissed by the airline. He said, “Before the year (2020) ran out, we called one of the co-pilot back through our interventions. The chairman promised me that we will recall more of the disengaged staff as soon as he has more planes flying. A captain was given an opportunity to resume but he gave conditions and at some point, they could not agree.” Giving a detailed update, he stated, “One co-pilot has been recalled and the two are on standby but they have been paid whatever is due them. “One captain was also recalled but he declined and he gave conditions for re-engagement which was not accepted. So, we could not press further. That is where we are. For the remaining two co-pilots, the chairman promised to reabsorb them.” Galadinma said the situation was also difficult for Azman which witnessed some of its pilots resign during the same period. One of the pilots who spoke under anonymity said the rest of the disengaged crew had moved on and got new jobs. He said, “Nobody has been called back and is willing to go back there. I think everybody has got a job. I know one captain they tried to call back. He is the only one they tried to call back. Any other person they tried to call back is a lie. Even the other two captains before they were called back, they had got jobs.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com