Friday Olokor, Abuja The Federal Government should use the polling units for the distribution of COVID-19 vaccines and face masks to avoid the challenge of hijack that heralded the COVID-19 palliatives meant for the masses, the Catholic Archbishop of Abuja, Most Rev. Ignatius Kaigama, has said. According to him, if the polling units created by the Independent National Electoral Commission could be effectively used for elections, they could also be used for the distribution of COVID-19 vaccines and face masks. [READ ALSO] Lekki: Sanwo-Olu yet to hand over camera ‘found’ by Fashola to #EndSARS panel – Adegboruwa The cleric made the suggestion in an interview with The PUNCH when asked to clarify his homily delivered at St. Jude’s Parish, Zuba in Abuja. He said, “I understand that INEC is considering increasing the polling units in Nigeria to beyond the present 119,973. Could the same polling units be used as free vaccination or face masks distribution centres? “Yes, I am just thinking of how effective this distribution can be because when we had the palliatives, many people said they didn’t see anything and I feel that it will likely be the same with the vaccines and face masks. [READ ALSO] EndSARS: Why I supported reopening of Lekki tollgate -Segalink “So, if all these polling units can be effectively used for elections, they can also be used for this purpose so that everybody will be attended to. They have to work out the logistics. That is the easiest way they can get to every nook and cranny of Nigeria because even people in the forest participate in elections. “So, they should use the same structure and mobilise the personnel and equipment. It’s just a suggestion, I know it’s not something they will work with. It’s an idea, I’m just talking about how effective the programme will be. READ ALSO: I don’t need donations from diaspora – Sunday Igboho “We recommend that before vaccinating Nigerians, our medical experts must ensure that the vaccines have been subjected to appropriate tests for genuineness and are properly stored, to allay the fear of contamination.”