Adebayo Folorunsho-Francis For Consultant Anaesthetist and Director of Intensive Care Unit at Delta State University Teaching Hospital, Dr. Ben Ejiro, once patients become depressed and weary of continual stay in treatment centre, managing them becomes more difficult. “They become agitated and start refusing treatment. They can even reject food, medication and therapy. Occasionally, a few of them could get into an aggressive mood just to vent their frustration. “This is how many easily go into psychological depression owing to their continual refusal to follow treatment protocol at the ICU. This was why we resolved that it would be a good idea to involve psychiatrist in their management,” he said. Apart from being an anaesthesia provider, Ejiro’s specialty also cuts across airway control, pain management, critical care medicine, training and clinical research. Narrating his experience with Coronavirus patients to PUNCH HealthWise, the frontline worker said that he was designated, along with other healthcare team, to take care of patients with severe cases of the disease in a special ward. “As anaethestists, we are mandated to manage such cases. Unfortunately, as expected with the disease of such nature, patients are not allowed to receive visitors, especially relatives and loved ones, because of the risk of transmission. Most of the people you see around here are physicians and nurses managing them,” he said. Communication in isolation centre Ejiro noted that whenever Coronavirus patients enter the critical stage of the disease and are taken to the intensive care unit, it is usually difficult to communicate with them. “We take them to a place where their families can see them from a distance. But such visit must fall within certain period and be well supervised in the designated area. “This is not applicable to those with severe respiratory challenges and the high risk involved. “You need to see how frontline workers kit up in their personal protective equipment and wear gloves to understand how serious such conditions are,” he said. According to him, some patients become emotional due to loneliness and because of their inability to have access to families and friends. “Over time, we have come to understand that most of the fatalities resulting from these severe cases stem from psychological depression. It is easy to tell. They feel isolated and lonely most of the time. “We also don’t really have the time to chat like that. It is either they are wearing face mask or on ventilators due to their condition. “We also don’t really encourage too much interaction in order to prevent any form of transmission of the disease. I guess you understand how air pollution works? “The only communications we often have don’t go beyond ‘How do you feel?’ ‘How are you today?’ and ‘Take your medication.’ Anything beyond that is not encouraged. “We try to reduce as much contact as possible. This is also true of those who are not sick but isolating at home. It is bad enough for them to be cut off activities. They cannot afford to go out, socialise or do anything. “If it is so difficult for people at home to observe all these protocols, imagine what those with severe conditions in isolation centres are passing through,” Ejiro added. When asked if religious leaders are permitted at the isolation centre, the anaesthetist said that such visitations were based on private arrangement. “We do have them come around to talk to patients. But as earlier said, it must be at a scheduled time when direct contact would be minimal,” he said, adding, “most of the patients appreciate it.” He explained further that at those moments, those who are not severely sick tend to move around freely while those who are chronically ill often asked to be left alone. Signs patients on oxygen therapy won’t survive Reacting to questions on how a frontline worker can tell if a sick patient won’t recover from a severe Coronavirus case, Ejirosaid there were vital signs physicians look out for. “I don’t think they suffer any other usual symptom which has not been identified ab initio. From experience, there are patients we put on oxygen therapy and they improve. If they keep improving, you can be certain that the patients will make it. “But again, there are those ones who improve and deteriorate repeatedly. Those are the ones that you can be certain that they may likely not make it,” he said. He stated that when COVID-19patients’ conditions start fluctuating, it makes doctors decide on new course of treatment, with the hope of a turnaround. “It is likely that such patient won’t make it,” Ejiro added. To continue reading this story, go to: https://healthwise.punchng.com/ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com    