Nike Popoola The Lagos State Government has said it paid N1.51bn to another set of 292 pensioners in the state. In a statement titled ‘Lagos restates commitment to pensioners’ welfare’ on Sunday, it said it remained committed to the payment of all pension entitlements when due. During the 82nd bond presentation ceremony to 292 pensioners whose Retirement Savings Accounts were credited with N1.51bn, the Director-General, Lagos State Pension Commission, Mr Babalola Obilana, assured retirees of the state government’s dedication to the well-being of its workforce even in retirement. The statement said he spoke during the brief event which held in full compliance with COVID-19 protocols. Obilana stated, “LASPEC has gone beyond the excuses of retirees waiting endlessly before they can gain access to their funds; the world is moving forward and so are we. “We are dedicated to our retirees because they have painstakingly contributed their quota towards making a greater Lagos.” Obilana charged the retirees to ensure that they had proper documentation to avoid delay in payment due to wrong or missing documents. The retirees were also admonished to be wary not to become victims of fraudsters. He said, “LASPEC is devoted to ensuring that all entitlements are paid into the right sources after departure from the Civil Service. “There are many people devising means of defrauding retirees of their dividends from long service. “That is why we operate an open-door policy to all on pension matters. LASPEC will not call or send you messages to charge you to get your entitlements.” Obilana thanked Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, for making the welfare of the employees a priority and for not withholding funds for retired staff amidst the COVID-19 pandemic and the aftermath of the EndSARS protest. He assured retirees that the governor was working assiduously to ensure that they did not have to wait for years before they received their pensions from the state. The director-general urged the staff to uphold a good service relationship with retirees mainly because it was the core culture, norm and belief of LASPEC. He said the agency’s goal for 2021 was to take an instant stand on openness and accountability. The Principal Legal Officer, LASPEC, Ms Abimbola Akintayo, stated that the two retirement options available were Programmed Withdrawal and Annuity. She urged the retirees to choose an option based on personal circumstances and not follow the crowd. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com   