Peak Chocolate has called on all chocolate lovers across the country to celebrate in its World Chocolate Day 2021 campaign aimed at creating memorable family moments. The World Chocolate Day, also known as International Chocolate Day, is an annual global celebration of chocolate every July 7 since 2009. Peak Chocolate will showcase different ways to enjoy the brand while having fun on Wednesday July 7. Several events have been lined up to celebrate the day. There will be major activations in key cities across the country, where the brand will delight its consumers with amazing chocolate tasting experiences. There will also be digital conversations on social media, highlighting the versatility and health benefits of chocolate and in particular, Peak Chocolate; and the deployment of huge inflatable World Chocolate Day balloons across high traffic areas in activated cities. Speaking on the campaign, the Marketing Manager, Peak Milk, Grace Onwubuemeli, stated that every year on July 7, the World Chocolate Day allows chocolate lovers around the world to indulge in their favourite treat, and because Chocolate is both a comfort food and a special occasion luxury, many people often have positive memories of their chocolate treats. “Having a bite or sip of chocolate takes us right back to the good old days. Chocolate is truly the universal language of love and happiness. We want to showcase Peak Chocolate as the brand that helps our customers create amazing memories so they can go ahead and indulge without guilt on this day. With Peak Chocolate, families can enjoy exciting moments and just have fun,” Onwubuemeli said. The celebration will also feature ‘Chocolate Takeover’ with Chef Cupid who will create three unique recipes using Peak Chocolate. These recipes are to be recreated by chocolate lovers as Peak Chocolate will be rewarding the best entries with shopping vouchers. On World Chocolate Day July 7, there will be an Instagram live session on Peak Chocolate’s Instagram page, to be hosted by the delectable Kiekie. It will feature Chocolate Trivia, where questions about chocolate, Peak Chocolate etc, will be asked, and correct answers will also be rewarded with shopping vouchers. Peak Chocolate is a perfect blend of cocoa, milk and sugar available in 400g pouch and 20g sachet. It serves as a nourishing treat. Manufactured in Nigeria under very hygienic conditions to provide quality beverage, Peak Chocolate milk beverage is easy to make as all you need to do is add water to it and mix. Peak Chocolate contains 28 vitamins and minerals and extra fortified with vitamins A, D, C, B1 and B6. It is versatile and can be served hot or cold at any time of the day. Peak Chocolate nourishes every family and everyone can indulge by including it in their day-to-day recipes like cakes, smoothies, milkshakes, etc. Everyone deserves a delicious Peak Chocolate treat. It is delightful nourishment even in moments of indulgence.