An unidentified man in his late 40s has allegedly died while in company with a lady in Ebonyi State. The incident, it was gathered, occurred at the Amazing Grace Lodge in the Ndufu-Alike community, Ikwo Local Government Area of the state on Monday. A community source, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said, “We just got information about what happened from the police station in the area. I don’t know what really happened. “But the rumour was that the man and the lady were having sex and the man died. When the police broke into the apartment, the lady was found unconscious, while the man was dead. “Since then, the story has remained the same. Nobody has actually told us a different thing from what the police said that the lady is unconscious. That was what happened. And honestly, we don’t know if the lady is a student or not.” When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, Mrs Loveth Odah, said the man died of poisonous fume inhalation from a generator and not during sex. Odah told our correspondent on the telephone, “It was reported at the Ikwo Divisional Headquarters that two persons, a man and a lady, were found. The lady is a victim of the recent Izzi/Ikwo crisis; she had machete cuts on her body and was undergoing treatment. “But her family didn’t allow her to remain in hospital to receive treatment. So, she went to a quarry to work and met a man, who was equally picking stones for sale at the quarry. According to an informant, it was late and the man went home together with the lady. The man just decided to accommodate her for the night. “It was when they slept off that fumes from the generator the man put on got inside the apartment and affected them. So, the DPO immediately moved to the scene and when the door was forced open, it was discovered that the man had died and the woman was unconscious. It was then that the DPO took the lady to a nearby hospital for treatment. I can tell you that she is stable now. “So, they were not having sex when the man died. It was even discovered that the lady was on her menstrual cycle two days before the incident. And medically, it has been proved that fumes from the generator killed the man and was about killing the lady too.”    ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com