AllCO Insurance Plc said it was partnering with ActionAid Nigeria to curb infanticide challenges in communities as part of its corporate social responsibility. The Head, Shared Services Division, AIICO Insurance, Olusanjo Shodimu, said the company had spent over N4.57m in this regard. Shodimu said this at the presentation of N1.47m to ActionAid Nigeria, a global movement of people who work together to further human rights for all and to defeat poverty in the society. The group also aimed to address cultural beliefs in a few communities in the Federal Capital Territory that promote the belief that a child whose mother dies from childbirth or while nursing a baby is evil and must be buried (alive) with the deceased mother, and that twins and set of triplet should also be killed Shodimu said AllCO Insurance was keen on selecting companies to partner with, like ActionAid Nigeria owing to its track records. He said as part of the underwriter’s commitment to the partnership, it had pledged to set aside N100 from every retail products sold. He implored other corporate organisations to join the fight against infanticide, adding that such obnoxious acts should not be tolerated in modern-day Nigeria. The Head, Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability, AIICO Insurance, Abimbola Shobanjo, said the company would not relent on its support to the project, adding that ActionAid Nigeria was notable for its integrity and pedigree. The Head, Strategic Marketing and Communications, Segun Olalandu, said the company was concerned about impacting lives, and pleased to partner with ActionAid Nigeria. The Country Director, ActionAid Nigeria, Ene Obi, said in 2018, ActionAid Nigeria’s investigations revealed that children of multiple births (twins and triplets) were considered taboos and killed in some communities in the nation’s capital. Obi added that natives of Bassa-komo, Gbariyamma, Ganagana tribes in Abuja still believed that if a mother died from childbirth or while nursing a baby, the baby was evil and must be buried (alive) with the deceased mother. The country director said, “In some other communities, children with albinism, born with Down syndrome, birth defects, and even those who grow their upper teeth first are victims of these barbaric practices. “Infanticide in the FCT remains a practice shrouded in secrecy with few people speaking openly. The process of killing these babies involves different methods such as poisoning (with a mixture of deadly plants and herbs), starvation and suffocation.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com