drtayooke@gmail.com The Independent National Electoral Commission, the body charged with the conduct and management of elections in Nigeria, has been in the news of late. There is a bill currently making its way through Parliament aimed at revamping its working structure, supposedly to make it more responsive and compliant. The main bone of contention in the proposed legislation is the conflicting desires of lawmakers to either include or obviate the need for on-the-spot electronic transmission of results. The Peoples Democratic Party, the main opposition to the ruling All Progressives Congress, and several others have been most vociferous about this. Josef Stalin is widely credited for saying: ‘Those who cast the votes decide nothing. Those who count the votes decide everything’. Stalin was, of course, a brutal dictator in Soviet Russia. His sardonic take on the value of the ballot was not only prescient for his time; it is perhaps even more so for our time and environment here as well. The Stalinists in the Nigerian Legislature are clearly weary of what an electronic transmission might possibly reveal; the bitter truth. They would rather not take a chance, it seems. That said, some would view the PDP’s Jonny-come-lately concern (even obsession) with INEC’s independence a trifle hypocritical. The party stood accused of emasculating the electoral umpire throughout its 16 years in power prior to 2015. Rest assured, the APC would have been parroting similar righteous lines if it was the party in opposition. However, this week’s column is not even about the raw sentiments being expressed both inside and outside Parliament, compelling though they may be. Our focus, instead, is on the ‘independent’ status of INEC as a matter of principle. After all, it is the anchor around which everything else hinges. Why put the tag ‘independent’ on an organisation which, (by any yardstick of fairness), is structured to be anything but? As an electoral umpire, INEC must not only be independent, it must also be seen to be independent. However, to the public at large, the organisation is neither independent, nor seen to be one. How independent can an organisation be if its chairman and his executives are appointed by a partisan politician (as surely as the President is), working through a National Assembly heavily influenced by him? Furthermore, what, in fact, is the rationale for appending ‘independent’ onto INEC anyway? Why not simply call it “National Electoral Commission” and then allow it to demonstrate its independence over time, and in the court of public opinion? Let us face it, the tag does not render any organisation truly independent, neither does its omission make it any less so. Independence is a matter of practice, as much as it is a matter of degree. The Central Bank of Nigeria is supposedly independent, but it is not (thankfully) tagged as “Independent Central Bank of Nigeria”. It is a given. So too is the Nigerian Police Force, The Nigerian Stock Exchange, Securities and Exchange Commission, National Judicial Council, Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, and a host of others.  The necessity to attach the label ‘independent’ to INEC is more for psychological comfort and reassurance than it is a legal imperative. It is otherwise meaningless for all practical purposes. It is an organisation whose ‘independence’ is almost exclusively dependent on a Federal Government superintended by a President, who is, invariably, the leader of one of the contenders for power in the political arena. It is like having the chairman of a football club, which has just won a keenly contested league, at the end of the season, be the one to appoint the referee, his assistants, and senior administrators for the next season. Even with the best will in the world, how independent could the match officials be afterwards? Above all, would the other participating clubs feel they are taking part in a fair competition? If the football analogy helps fuel your rage on this topic, then, it should. The idea of having a general election of a country coordinated from the centre by a government-appointed agency is, of itself, profoundly anti-democratic. This is precisely why no equivalent of a national election commission exists in advanced democracies of the West. The more power you allocate to a (political) body at the centre, the more the risk of abuse. Election administration is a devolved matter in Western democracies. As a result of long practice, citizens have developed trust in local officials to conduct and manage voting in their particular localities, which is then independently declared without transmission to an overarching ‘collation centre’ presided over by an almighty chairman, at the country’s capital. Most results are, by custom, ‘collated’ by the press and civil society groups under the bright lights of the cameras. Projections, permutations, and the post-mortems begin soon after polls close. No room, no inch, given to ballot stuffing, snatching, burning, or anything of the sort. More importantly, the electorate hardly ever bother about the conduct of their local returning officers either. Politics is not seen as a zero-sum game over there, because there is broad agreement on the purpose of government amongst the ruling elite, which prioritises minimal welfare and social security for citizens. It is called the ‘social contract’ between government and the governed. That is the essence of election in a (liberal) democracy. Now, do we have anything remotely close to a liberal democracy in Africa? The answer is clearly no. By consequence, politics tends to be all or nothing for the most part. Moreover, since the culture of winning and losing has not yet taken firm roots in Africa, hence, there is a need for a powerful central agency to strike the fear of God into the hearts of contenders for political office. Entrusting local returning officers with the power to deliver equitable results across the board with no regional biases in Africa is an aspiration, and a dream for the longest time. The brouhaha that accompanied the nomination of Lauretta Onochie, as a commissioner on the board of INEC, a few days ago, highlights the point of this discussion very well. The Senate’s rejection of her nomination has been hailed as a “victory for democracy”. It is not. It is a pyrrhic victory at best.  It is more of a setback for the Buhari regime, which will soon be rectified by the appointment of a more hardened APC stalwart, who will not be as careless as Onochie has been in letting slip her partisan mask. That said, the current model of a powerful INEC whose principal officers are appointed by Mr. President (who also has a vested interest in the commission’s work), is an anomaly that owes its origin to poor legislative drafting. The entire Act should be replaced with one which places emphasis not so much on ‘independence’, but on even-handedness. For this to happen, composition of the electoral body would be the sole responsibility of a Board of Trustees drawn from members of the civil society, labour union, and retired men (and women) of honour from the civil service and judiciary. In addition, the top three political parties in the last two electoral cycles will also have the right to nominate one representative each onto the board. With that multiple locks clamped in, the soul of the electoral body would be tied to everybody, and to nobody. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com