The Nigeria Centre for Disease Control last Thursday announced that the Delta variant of COVID-19 has been discovered in the country. How do we explain this to a layman? This is an indication that the NCDC is up to the task for the swift and quick response to the detection of this variant on time. Delta is a variant of concern. Delta is the name for the B.1.617.2. variant, a SARS-CoV-2 mutation that originally surfaced in India. The first Delta case was identified in December 2020. What are the symptoms of the Delta variant? There is no scientific data yet to show if Delta symptoms differ from those caused by other variants. Vaccination has a role to play such that people who are vaccinated but develop COVID-19 anyway tend to develop milder symptoms. How dangerous is the Delta variant? We have possible attributes of these Delta variants, which are pieces of evidence of increased transmissibility as it has been reported in affected countries and potential reduction in neutralisation by post-vaccination sera. Although, preliminary evidence from England and Scotland suggests that people infected with Delta are about twice as likely to end up in hospital, compared with those infected with Alpha. How does a virus replicate itself to form another variant? Viruses constantly change through mutation, mostly common among RNA viruses, in which SARs-CoV-2 is one. A variant has one or more mutations that differentiate it from other variants in circulation. As expected, multiple variants of SARS-CoV-2 have been documented in different parts of the world. Is it true that some of these variants are vaccine-resistant? If yes, how is this possible? Delta is moderately resistant to vaccines, particularly in people who have received just a single dose. The most important thing is to complete the doses of the vaccine in order to be protected against the variants. When people get vaccinated, are they totally free from contracting COVID-19? Not at all. Once people get fully vaccinated, it is possible to be infected, but the severity of the infection is much lower than unvaccinated individuals. Getting fully vaccinated, which means both the first and second doses, is the best way to protect yourself from the Delta variant. The most important thing you can do to protect yourself from Delta is to get fully vaccinated. Are the current vaccines potent against all variants of COVID-19? The World Health Organisation has reported that all of the vaccines listed for emergency use do protect against developing severe disease, hospitalisation and death due to the Delta variant; apparently, this may likely be possible for other variants, though several researches are going on to validate this. Do you think the country has enough machinery to contain the deadly Delta variant of COVID-19? Not at all; the country does not have such capacity to contain the deadly Delta variant; we have to be extra careful by observing all non-pharmaceutical measures and encouraging vaccination. Some countries are already experiencing the third wave, but it seems Nigerians have forgotten about the virus; is the third wave not imminent if people continue with their lackadaisical behaviour? This is what we do not hope for, but we have to take up the responsibility by taking the non-pharmaceutical measures very seriously. We have to stop  lackadaisical behaviour and also keep to the rules of the game. Testing has also reduced compared to during the peak of the pandemic in the country; won’t this increase community spread of the virus? Yes, there is a great danger once the testing capacity is reduced like what we are experiencing presently; there should more actively testing centres in the country. We have to put in more efforts in increasing the testing capacity in the country alongside the genomic sequencing of the virus in order to have the true picture of which variant(s) of the virus is/are circulating in the country. The low testing capacity could probably increase community transmission of the virus, which should not be experienced. How many variants of COVID-19 do we have at the moment?  What are the differences between the variants? Is the Delta variant the most dangerous? SARS-CoV-2 Interagency Group developed a variant classification scheme that defines three classes of SARS-CoV-2 variants; Variant of Interest: The CDC classified this as ‘A variant with specific genetic markers that have been associated with changes to receptor binding, reduced neutralisation by antibodies generated against previous infection or vaccination, reduced efficacy of treatments, potential diagnostic impact, or predicted increase in transmissibility or disease severity’. These are B.1.427, B.1429, B.1.525, B.1.526, B.1.617.1 and B.1617.3 Variant of Concern: The CDC classified this as ‘A variant for which there is evidence of an increase in transmissibility, more severe disease (e.g. increased hospitalisation or deaths), significant reduction in neutralisation by antibodies generated during previous infection or vaccination, reduced effectiveness of treatments or vaccines, or diagnostic detection failures. These are B.1.1.7, B.1.351 and B.1.617.2, which is the Delta variant Variant of High Consequence: The CDC classified this as ‘A variant of high consequence, has clear evidence that prevention measures or medical countermeasures have significantly reduced effectiveness relative to previously circulating variants. But currently, there are no SARS-CoV-2 variants that rise to the level of high consequences’. Some studies have shown that the B.1.1.7 is the SARS CoV2 that is significantly dangerous. Since the discovery of the Delta variant, there has been a rise in the infections recorded. Is it possible that the Delta variant is spreading faster in the country? I can’t really say it is Delta variant, because such can only be concluded after genomic sequencing have been done but there is likelihood of such due to the characteristics of the Delta variant The percent of those that have been vaccinated in the country is still very low, how can the federal and state governments ramp-up vaccination? Both the federal and state governments should make efforts to buy vaccines, such that we shall not only be depending on the ones from the COVAX. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com