drtayooke@gmail.com Secession from the Federal Republic of Nigeria by any of its constituent units was widely thought to have been banished with the end of the civil war in 1970.  Indeed, no one ever dared to go anywhere near that topic even in private, as most people had faith in the ability of the country’s political and military leaders to steer the ship of state away from such stormy waters. Disagreements over policy, tactics, and strategy have surfaced in the open, sometimes vehemently, but secession was never part of the deal, until now. Something hitherto regarded as taboo has now made its way onto the mainstream political discourse. Meanwhile, permutations about the 2023 elections and jockeying for position continue to exercise members of the political class who, like the proverbial ostriches, would rather bury their heads in the sand. The cascading events of the last couple of months focusing on the corporate existence of the country as one unit must be seen as extremely worrying to the wider public, inside and outside Nigeria. Suddenly, it seems, talk of Biafra and Yoruba autonomous, even independence status from Nigeria is no longer an ‘extremist propaganda’; it is fast becoming a kitchen-table, motor-park discussion. This is being fuelled, no doubt, by the rising cost of living being witnessed by the multitude of citizens up and down the country. Security and heavy-handedness of dissent by the armed forces do nothing to douse the tension either. If anything, harassment and detention of opposition elements, generally and collectively seen as ‘suspects’ in the separatist agitation only betray the fragility of the Nigerian state. The question before the reader, this week, is whether Nigerians have indeed lost faith in the corporate existence of their country so much that they would rather splinter into different ‘independent’ segments. Let us examine the evidence. From 1970 until 1979, the military was in charge of the country in its effort to rebuild and reconstruct from the aftermath of the civil war. The oil boom of the 1970s gave everyone some stake in the political-economy, and a huge assumption of Nigeria’s ‘pre-ordained’ destiny to ‘lead’ Africa. No one heard of ‘marginalisation’ ‘nepotism’, ‘Hausa’ ‘Fulani’, ‘Igbo’ ‘Efik’, or anything of the sort. A new civilian government took over from the military under the Presidency of Alhaji Shehu Shagari, between 1979 and 1983 until it was overthrown in a coup d’état led by Major General Muhammadu Buhari who, himself, was overthrown in a palace coup led by General Ibrahim Babaginda, in 1985. Still, ‘ethnicity’, or ‘marginalisation’ played almost no role in any of the events. The common enemy was mismanagement and high-level corruption.  No one talked about partitioning Nigeria. Subsequently, everybody wanted the military out of government. Everybody had only one project in their front burner: Nigeria, democracy and development, in that order. Babangida reluctantly gave in to pressure and organised a general election in 1993. Nigerians came out in their millions and cast their ballots in favour of the Social Democratic Party candidate, MKO Abiola, a Yoruba Muslim from the South-West, and his running mate, Alhaji Baba Gana Kingibe, a Kanuri Muslim from the North. Let us note the ‘Muslim-Muslim’ ticket of the presidential and vice-presidential ticket. It shattered the myth of Christian-Muslim mistrust and disharmony forming the bedrock of the Nigerian political life. What is more, Abiola won the endorsement of the overwhelming Muslims in the North, including, famously defeating the National Republican Convention’s presidential candidate, Alhaji Bashir Tofa, a Fulani, from Kano, in his own constituency. That, again, shattered the myth of an ‘irreconcilable’ North-South dichotomy in Nigerian politics. Sadly, the result of the election though widely known, was never rendered official. It was cowardly, shamefully, and scandalously “annulled” by the outgoing military dictator, General Babangida, for being “unacceptable”. Nigerians had just taken part in the most peaceful, freest and open democratic election in its history, and the military simply tossed it off. Indeed, the military and the person of Babangida in particular, did an untold damage to the wellbeing of Nigeria by so doing. Henceforth, ethnicity made its way into the lexicon of political dialogue in Nigeria, as it was widely believed that the election would not have been annulled but for the winner coming from the South-West region of the country. The military’s hierarchy, led by Babangida, could not stomach the thought of handing over power to a man duly chosen by the people irrespective of his ethnicity and religion.  A spit in the face for the electorate (North, South, East and West, Christians and Muslims alike) who had turned a blind eye to ethnicity and other forms of bigotry. Was that the pivotal moment when ‘one Nigeria’ was lost? The question now is, how the same Nigerians who acted in unison, and without prejudice in 1993, then became ‘separatists’ and ‘secessionists’ in 2021? What could have happened to make people disavow the same country they embraced intoto in 1993, to the point where they are now actively seeking separation? The short answer is that the foundation upon which the new democratic dispensation was built by the departing military in 1999 was doomed for failure. It was a military contraption, which the ruling elites have made worse every single year since 1999. It was crafted with the insignia: “We the people…” That was a blatant lie. The public was not involved. Still, it does not fully explain the clamour for separate nationhood being canvassed so openly across the regions. On any objective analysis, the basis for separation or secession does not appear to exist, neither has the political case for it been made or rejected. It is precisely the stifling of democratic debate around this issue that has given rise to the rhetoric and agitation for separation. The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) and the All Progressives Congress regime are the ones failing to rise up to the occasion. They ought to call the bluff of the separatist agitators and engage them in debate instead of castigating them as enemies of the state. The more you impose a ban on a political idea, the more attractive it becomes. To buttress the point, no Igbo leader of any significance has ever associated themselves (at least not openly) with the stance taken by the Indigenous People of Biafra, and no widespread support for its objective either. That was until the Buhari regime proscribed the organisation. Now, no one can claim ignorance of the organisation, its leader and its objective. Conversely, no Yoruba leader of note came out to endorse Sunday Igboho, the Yoruba separatist leader, and no widespread following for him either. That was until the armed forces began to attack him and declared him wanted. By way of analogy, the Scottish Nationalist Party in the UK and the Basque Nationalists in Spain are prime examples of yearnings for a homeland, accommodated and given public space in both countries. The ongoing debate in those countries is not without pain and rancour, but it is being countered by superior arguments and deft political moves by the establishment. The Scottish people, for instance, have consistently voted against independence from the UK. The last referendum on the issue was in 2014, which the nationalists lost. How many people would vote for an independent Yoruba (O’dua) Republic or The Republic of Biafra today, for that matter? Most importantly, where on earth would the boundaries of the putative countries be drawn? Which sub-ethnic group would be absorbed, and which would be discarded? Nigeria’s unity can, and should be subjected to negotiation. Assuming they eschew violence, let all those nursing political ambition for regional autonomy or independence be unbanned, come forward,and defend their position in open debate. They must be countered by force of argument, not by force of arms. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com