How did you feel when you first featured in a movie? I felt good. I had featured in television programmes and in stage plays before I acted in a movie. When did you start acting? I started acting in the early years of my life. Then, in my area in Idumota, we had many television stars around, some people such as Madam Saje and others. Whenever I attended rehearsals and I returned home, I would mimic what I saw in them. During my secondary school days, some clubs were introduced as extracurricular activities such as Girls Guide, Boys Scout and others for entertainment. I decided to join the entertainment society and that became the beginning of my career in acting. What is the name of the first movie that brought you into the limelight? I was actually known through the television programme I featured in called “Theatre Omode.” The name of the first movie I acted in was Aje ni Iya mi, which is a home video. What was your name in the movie? Dejo. Would you say that was how you earned the name Dejo Tunfulu? No, the name of the character I acted was Dejo in the movie. I had a younger brother named Tunfulu so when people saw us on stage they would say, ‘Let Dejo Tunfulu come on stage.’ That was how they joined the two names. Do you still act? Right now I am at a location where I was invited to. I still act. I am a master of ceremonies and entertainment-related shows. How do you cope with hero worship? (Laughs). As I said, I am currently on location. I was in my car when I got there and some fans milled around me. I had to wave at them. At times, some fans will come to me and refuse to leave until I give them money so I just have to be humble. What is your advice to up-and-coming entertainers? They should be prayerful and focused on what they are doing and also ask God to promote them. What themes do you think movies should explore? Any movie produced now should preach something good to our viewers, like in terms of good and bad acts. This is what I call entertainment and not portraying wars and rituals every time. On my part, my movies are always a comedy to relieve people from stress. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com