The Association of Advertising Agencies of Nigeria is set to hold its 48th Annual General Meeting/Congress in Ibadan, Oyo State. The two-day meeting, with the theme ‘Bloom, Gloom and Doom! Where do we sit?’ is to be held between July 23 and 24 at the Golden Tulip Hotel, Ibadan, according to a statement titled ‘AAAN Organises 48th AGM/Congress to Hold in Ibadan’ made available to Saturday PUNCH on Friday. The statement said the Minister of Information, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, and the Governor of Oyo State, Mr Seyi Makinde, would be among prominent dignitaries at the event. Makinde is expected to declare the meeting open. The President of the association, Mr Steve Babaeko, stated that its AGM was a platform to actively engage in intellectual and critical discourse on the challenges facing the business and practice of advertising in Nigeria and advocate unconventional solutions in rebuilding and rebranding the industry. Also, the Chairman of the Events Planning Committee, Mr Doyin Adewumi, stated that the association had come to a decision to invite leading experts in their fields to lead the discourse on the theme, adding that the impact of the discourse would be beneficial to delegates and members of the association. Also expected at the event as speakers and panellists are Managing Director, Sterling Bank Plc, Mr Abubakar Suleiman; Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Interswitch, Mitchell Elegbe; Founder of Future Africa, Mr Iyinoluwa Aboyeji; and Group Chief Marketing and Corporate Communications Officer, Interswitch, Mrs. Cherry Eromosele. Others are CEO, Image and Time, Mrs Bukola Akingbade; CEO, Noah’s Ark, Mr Lanre Adisa; Managing Director, DDB Lagos, Mr Tunde Dosekun; Co-Founder/Director of Strategy, Yellow Brick Road, Miss Nnenna Onyewuchi; and Chief Operating Officer of Verdant Zeal Group, Mr Dipo Adesida. Adewumi also added that in recognition of meritorious service, some senior members would be honoured and given special recognition awards. Also, young practitioners who have shown exceptional leadership would also be recognised at the AGM/Congress. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com