The Nigerian Guild of Editors on Tuesday saluted a former Governor of Ogun State, Chief Segun Osoba; and the Chairman/Editor-in-Chief of THISDAY Newspapers Group/Arise News, Prince Nduka Obaigbena, for giving journalism and media sector a place of honour. The NGE, in a birthday message to the two eminent journalists, signed by its President, Mustapha Isah; and General Secretary, Iyobosa Uwugiaren, said the men brought innovation to the modern day journalism practice. “An influential member of the Guild and former President, Newspapers Proprietors’ Association of Nigeria, Prince Obaigbena is arguably one of Nigeria’s most powerful Newspaper Publishers, who has successfully built an influential network of friends and associates that cuts across all segments of the society. “A good manager of human resources, Obaigbena has a mysterious capacity for attracting gifted journalists to his pool; this approach has fortified the editorial strength of both THISDAY and Arise News that have many of our influential members. “As he turns 62 years today, we congratulate the media mogul, skilful journalist and an innovator, whose assistance to the growth and development of the Nigerian media industry remain impossible to remove and worthy of emulation,” the NGE stated. On Osoba, who will be 82 years on Thursday, the NGE said, ‘’Chief Osoba’s strong obligation to journalism profession and the NGE’s mission is unwavering. “For Chief Osoba, it is an existential battle for journalists and those who cherish civic and democratic space to fight –  in order to retrieve our democracy from the jaws of those who want to destroy it. We salute his courage. ‘’Chief Osoba believes so much in press freedom that he is ready to express his views even if his political friends may not be comfortable with them.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com