Enitan Rotimi is the firstborn of the late renowned playwright and Theatre Art lecturer, Prof Ola Rotimi. In this interview with OLADIMEJI RAMON, Enitan speaks about the playwright’s life and times, giving a glimpse into parts of him unknown to the public To many, your dad was a famous playwright. How will you describe him? He was multifaceted, it’s difficult to describe him with a few words, so I’ll stick to a few of his major characteristics. He believed that everyone on earth came with a specific mission to fulfil and you were born with the necessary talents to accomplish it. Music, engineering, healing, teaching etc, he believed the gift was in us and it was his duty as a father to identify it and steer us into becoming the best version of ourselves and not a copy of himself. Being a writer, he had the gift of reading people accurately. That translated into realistic characters in his plays that anyone watching them would say I know someone like that. On the personal level, he could see through your public face down to the real you and deal with you accordingly. He was fair in his treatment of others and disdained wicked and selfish people, especially those who used their position and good fortune to oppress others. What is your position among his children? I am the first of the late Prof. Ola Rotimi’s four biological children –  Oruene Ruth Yewande, Abiodun Olawale Otonye and BanKole Daniel Idubamo, being the others. I say biological because there are over a hundred young people who he treated like his children and they too saw him as a father figure in their lives. Most (of such children are) in Nigeria and many are in the US, UK and the Caribbean.  His biological children, all four of us, are based in the US working in our different careers: IT consulting, business and teaching. What was growing up for you and your siblings like, with Ola Rotimi as your father? It was great. He had a different relationship with each child based on that child’s personality. For example, he could have long political and economic discussions with me and my friends for hours on end. My friends had similar interests as I and he would engage us with such discussions. With Oruene it would be psychosocial matters. Biodun was and still is not much of a talker, so he engaged him differently while Kole or Alhaji, as he fondly called him, was entrepreneurial as a child and still as an adult, so he would encourage Kole to run his business ideas by him, give adult advice, then finance the plan. By the way, it wasn’t just his biological children he treated that way. He was like that with his students as well, that’s why he is referred to as “the Father of Nollywood.” Many of the founding actors, directors and producers in Nollywood that studied in OAU (Obafemi Awolowo University) Ife-Ife, UNIPORT (University of Port Harcourt) have stories of his influence in their careers and it wasn’t limited just to classroom interactions. He passed away in August 2000.  What are the most enduring memories of him that you have and cherish? There are so many enduring memories that I cherish, especially the ones about how to handle the crisis of daily life. Twenty years after his passing I still apply lessons learned in dealing with situations that come my way. One example is (his belief that) a good name is more important than money; not to say money is bad but you must not compromise your personal beliefs or partake in wickedness while pursuing it. Because money is like a prostitute, today it is with you and tomorrow it is with someone else. It has no sense of loyalty. Your name and reputation will go before you and live long after you have died. It will yield dividends for your children and children’s children. Look around you and you will notice that ill-gotten wealth brings misfortune with it, that is why you ask about the families of those who got it illegally and you notice that even if the individual didn’t suffer directly while on earth, you will notice that their children are totally messed up. Whereas those with a good name find favour and live blessed lives. He must have told you how he met your mum. Can you briefly share the story? They met in Boston University as students. She was in music and he, theatre. It was at a time when inter-racial relationships were discouraged. In some states, it was illegal and even hazardous to the health of the black man in that relationship. He could be lynched for having a white girlfriend. Not only was he (Ola Rotimi) a black man dating a white girl, he was an African. However, neither of them were conformists. The more society pushed against the relationship, the stronger their bond grew. Much to the annoyance of their detractors, their “Oyibo princess” started to tie wrapper with gele like an African woman. They graduated and went to Yale where they announced their wedding plans. That generated even more resistance and some people told her that “You know Africans are polygamous. This African man you want to marry has two other wives back home.  Do you want to follow him back to Africa and discover that you are wife number three?”  She told him everything and their accusations inspired him to write his first play: Our Husband Has Gone Mad Again.  In the play, Liza lands in Nigeria from the US only to discover that her husband (Lejoka Brown) has two other wives. That play was awarded Yale Student Play of the Year in 1966. Its stage performance generated raving reviews in the US newspapers. The news of the young Nigerian student’s play in the US hit the press in Nigeria, making him a sensation even before the ink of his graduation certificate dried. Job offers came rolling in, in the US and Nigeria. He chose Nigeria and she followed him. Needless to say, there were no other wives in Nigeria when they landed, and there would never be other wives till death did them part in 2000. She died first. After her funeral in the US he returned to the dream house they built in Ile-Ife, Home of Love, where they planned to spend their twilight years surrounded by children, grandchildren, playing in the big yard full of every tropical fruit tree you can find in Africa. There he died of a heart attack two months later. What was your mother’s opinion about him? It depends on how she was feeling when you asked her that question. Most people paint a rosy picture of love. However, anyone who’s been in love with the same person over two years will tell you that beautiful roses have thorns that can irritate you. If you asked her on a good day, she would say he was tenacious and unwavering. If you asked her the same question on a bad day, she would say he could be stubborn sometimes. But she just used different words to describe the same overlapping character trait they both had, except he expressed it loudly like a Nigerian and she was quiet in her execution like a Bostonian. In relation to his children, was he a disciplinarian? Yes oh! Not just to his biological children but everyone he loved and saw something good in them. He believed that it takes fire, a strong arm and hammer to beat iron ore into a useful implement. You don’t win Olympics by talent alone. You need discipline, hard work and tenacity. If you were not willing to utilise that God-given talent that he saw in you, he would drag it out of you by fire, by force. There would be no excuses and there would be no negotiation. He could read your character very quickly, identify your creative talent even before you knew about it yourself and bring it out of you.  Sometimes the process was pleasant and sometimes not so pleasurable, especially if you had the proclivity for laziness, excuses or taking shortcuts.   Bringing out the best in young people and watching them evolve into their greatest potential was like a personal mission for him.  So, while the world gave him accolades and awards for plays and written works, we, his family, knew of his third mission and the delight he got in watching his students on TV, radio, Hollywood, BBC and of course Nollywood. He is described as the “Father of Nollywood” because of the paternal relationship he had with his students who became Nollywood directors, producers, and actors, even though he himself did not produce any movies. Not every one of his children (biological or adopted) became a professional actor, director or playwright. The fact is, it didn’t matter what your talent is, if he saw it in you, he would pull it out of you. Public administration, business, engineering or whatever it was that he saw in you, he would make sure it came out, and he expected you to excel at it.  He believed that everyone was sent to the earth with a mission and that you were given the talents and everything necessary to fulfil that mission; just as the mango seed has everything in it to become a mango tree to provide fruit for people to eat. All the mango seed needs is soil and water and it would grow to fulfil its mission on earth. The same applies to human beings, and Papa’s duty was to provide the necessary fertiliser to make you bloom into the best version of yourself, not a carbon copy of himself. As a result, he never insisted any of his children become playwrights, actors or directors like himself. Just as he did not become an engineer like his father or a public administrator like his grandfather but was allowed to fulfil his mission with the talents that were deposited in him, which he strived to develop to its fullest potential.  The same way he drove himself was the same way he drove those he loved. The personal discipline and result-oriented training to be the best version of yourself and not a copy of someone else is evidenced in the lives of his children, students and anyone who worked with or for him, including the housemaids, some of who became teachers, a famous sculptor, a flight engineer, university lecturer and a lawyer. It didn’t matter their tribe, religion, or economic background. It is common for creative persons or artists to have some weird traits. Was there anything weird or unique about your dad? None that I know of. Maybe I and others around me share the same weirdness that whatever he did looked normal to us. As a lecturer, a writer and theatre artist, he must have been very busy. Did his work allow him spend enough time with his family? Writing, teaching and theatre was not work to him; it was an integral part of the life in the Rotimi household. Theatre was as much a part of the Ola Rotimi household as eating. Everyone in the house went on stage except the dog. As a child you played the role of a child in his plays and acted all the way up through university when we graduated and moved on to our different careers in the military, education, business administration and computer science. Biodun, for example, was a baby when he went on stage as “Baby Odewale,” in the first performance of The gods Are Not to Blame with Femi Robinson (the first Village Headmaster) as King Odewale. In university, we spent so much time in the theatre that most people thought we were Theatre Art majors taking elective courses in Engineering, Political Science, Economics and Fine Arts, our real majors. We didn’t just watch his performances at the art theatre, we acted and in many cases mama composed the music. You would notice that there was always a strong musical component in all his plays. Remember, she was a university lecturer in African Art and Music. The play “Hopes of The Living Dead,” for example, was based on her research into Ikoli Harcourt Whyte’s music. It amazed him that a man with leprosy would compose such wonderful music, praising God, that his efforts led to the creation of a self-sustaining leper colony where the cure for leprosy was discovered and its benefit to those suffering from the disease across the globe. One of the untold stories of Nigeria’s contribution to the world is the cure for leprosy. Where did your father do most of his creative works; home or office? An idea could come to him anywhere; during a conversation, while driving or while taking a long walk, something he did often. In his study at home was his writing desk we children called the “Long Table.” Everything looks big to a child. It was on the “Long Table” he wrote every play, symposium, lecture notes and newspaper article. It was also where he thought us maths, history, science and everything else. How did he relax? He liked taking long walks alone. Sometimes the dog went with him. He also farmed for exercise. He didn’t like jogging. Why should he run when nobody was chasing him? He would rather do something that also yielded benefits like agricultural produce. What were his favourite food and drink? Pounded yam with okra soup – Nembe style. His mother was Nembe/Ijaw and Ijaw okra soup has everything in the Atlantic Ocean in it – fish, periwinkle, crab etc. He also liked fresh fish pepper soup from Peninsular – a joint by the Okrika Riverside. If he liked you as a colleague or an acquaintance and he wanted to take you to a fancy restaurant, then he would take you to Peninsular where they caught fish in the river straight into the pot. And if he considered you a good friend, then he would cook the okra for you himself – Nembe style. I have not met anyone who cooked okra soup better than him. As per drink, (he loved) palm wine. You would notice it was a common feature in his plays. He was also the patron of the Palm Wine Drinkers Club. He never got drunk. How did he like to dress? It depended on the occasion. Most of the time it was buba (Yoruba) or donny/iwoko (Ijaw) (that he wore). What kind of music did he love? Traditional music, highlife from the 1950s to the 1970s and choral music. Bongos Ikwue and Harcourt White. Who were his close friends and associates? If I start calling their names, I will be listing until next week. Noteworthy, all the writers and poets from his era (were his friends). Many of his contemporaries, including Prof Wole Soyinka, were quite political. Was he political too? Yes, however, his politics was more like my grandfather’s – use politics to resolve a specific problem; and not politics as an end in itself or to seek office. Once the problem was resolved, he would go back to focus on his real passion – theatre and teaching. He turned down an opportunity to become federal minister because he believed that the regime wanted to use his reputation to legitimise itself and buy his voice at the same time. He rejected it. Soyinka wrote in his memoirs, You Must Set Forth At Dawn, about your dad’s encounter with power-drunk soldiers of the military era on Ikorodu road. Apart from that episode, was there any other time he suffered in the hands of government or its agents? The encounter Prof Soyinka spoke about was during the civil war. A war he and Soyinka were totally against – one of many areas of overlapping interest between both writers. On the personal level, Ola Rotimi’s father, whom he loved, was Yoruba (Nigeria) while his mother, whom he was very close to, was Ijaw (Biafra). As you would expect, being her lastborn son, they had a special relationship. You would notice he gave his children both Yoruba and Ijaw names.                                                                                                         What do you do when your father’s side is fighting your mother’s people and you love them both? Before the war, people of the South-South were marginalised as minorities while their ports and oil enriched others. In the violent massacre of easterners leading up to the war, the murderous hordes did not differentiate between Ijaw, Ibo, Ibibio, Efik or any person from the minority tribes east of the Niger. Official reports said 30,000 Ibos were killed, while the deaths of Ijaws and other tribes went unreported and no one has been held accountable for this over 50 years. During the war, his mother’s people fell within the boundaries of Biafra not by choice but by geographical location and the oil wealth beneath their feet. Again, they were being brutalised in a war that they did not ask for and were bound to suffer regardless of whichever side won.  Would they merely be replacing one dominant tribe/oppressor with another one while their farmlands, fishing waters get polluted and their ports and oil enrich the dominant tribe of the victorious side? While his relatives bled, those who could stop it pointed accusing fingers, blaming everyone else. They pointed at Britain for encouraging Gowon to renege on the Aburi Accord. They blamed France for seeking to exploit the oil reserves within the newly formed Biafra. They blamed northerners for slaughtering easterners. They blamed Ibos for the Nzeogwu coup despite the fact that officers from other tribes were involved. Out of this blame game came the title of the play: The gods Are Not To Blame, in which young Odewale kills a man for insulting his tribe and later marries Queen Ojuola, only to find out that the man he killed for insulting his tribe was actually his father and the queen he married was his mother. As per other military encounters, he criticised several military regimes without reprisal until he criticized Abacha on several fronts: June 12, the plight of the people of the Niger Delta whose land generates the nation’s wealth while the indigenes lack basic amenities and their source of livelihood destroyed with oil pollution. Abacha’s economic policies causing artificial scarcity of essential commodities then his henchmen profit from the sale of these essential commodities at ridiculous prices; non-payment of civil servants’ salaries, etc.   Word got back to him via former students working within the SSS that Abacha wanted to lock him up and try him in a Kangaroo court by Abacha-appointed judges and sycophants. If the kangaroo court failed to convict him of being a NADECO member, he would die in prison under unknown circumstances. So, he left Nigeria on exile. While on exile he wrote the play: “When the Criminals Become Judges.” What will you describe as your father’s biggest influence on you; and perhaps on your siblings? We all have his work ethic, fairness and creativity. What is the most remarkable reaction you have got from people on learning that you are Ola Rotimi’s son? They usually express admiration of his works and tell me of their personal interaction with him. Can you recall one of the times that his name has stood you in good stead? I remember encountering an Immigration officer on one of my trips from the US to Nigeria. Initially he looked at me in a weird way because most people mistake me for an Egyptian. Then he got suspicious when he looked at my passport and it had names from three different tribes: Yoruba, Ijaw and Hebrew. He got even more curious when I started speaking Pidgin English to him. He asked me how come? I said, “No be my fault; my papa write the Pidgin English Dictionary, na im make I dey talk like dis.” He started to laugh and said, “Who go write Pidgin English Dictionary and who go read am?” And then I pulled out my smartphone and googled “Nigerian Pidgin English Dictionary.” The green book came up. He was shocked, then shouted, “Ola Rotimi write Pidging English Dictionary!! No be him write The gods Are Not to Blame? Na your papa?” I said, “Yes and as per your other question, that dictionary sells more copies overseas than The gods Are Not to Blame in the past three years.” He himself didn’t think it would do that well. The officer stayed with me throughout the check-in process, through Customs and all the way to the front of the airport to ensure nobody harassed me or tried to extort bribes from me. Are there other creative writers, like him, in the family? While we all took on different professions, we all have the gift. I have written two books, and a third one in his honour will be released in August, the anniversary of his death. It is titled: Stories Untold. If the saying is true that we get most of our genes from our grandparents, then Ola and Hazel Mae, Rotimi’s grandchildren, are a living proof of it. Amiah Mae Rotimi, their first granddaughter, has combined the fine artist talent of our mother (Hazel Mae Rotimi) and theatrical talents of Prof (Ola Rotimi), as a make-up artist for several music videos, and TV shows in the US. Kola Heywood Rotimi, second grandchild, has won several literary related awards between 2018 and 2020, prior to graduating from the university, just like his grandfather did as a Yale student. These awards include: the Mellon Mays Undergraduate Fellowship, Elizabeth Bruss Prize, James Charlton Knox Prize, Pitch Wars and the Francis-Chia Fellowship. It’s too early to tell if the other grandchildren will take after one or both of their grandparents as they are still in high school and primary school. Apart from his very popular works like The gods Are Not to Blame; and Our Husband Has Gone Mad Again, what are some of his other works? Kurunmi; Hopes of the Living Dead; Holding Talks; Grip Am; If; Akassa Youmi; Ovoranwen Nogbaisi; A Dictionary of Nigerian Pidgin English; Man Talk Woman Talk; When Criminals Become Judges. Which of these works is your favorite and why is that? I don’t have a particular favourite. I have used the insight and wisdom gained from them in handling issues encountered in daily life. For example, during the war on terror, I was the first regional IT coordinator of the Bio Terrorism programme responsible for the New York City metro area and 150 mile radius of the city; I took a lot of insight from Kurunmi who had to take decisive but unpopular decisions in the middle of a war. ‘The gods Are Not to Blame;’ and ‘Our Husband Has Gone Mad Again’ became educational materials for literature students in Nigeria. Is the family getting due returns from these works? Prof himself didn’t make much money from his plays when they were required reading materials for WASSCE because of piracy. Lots of fake copies were selling for less than the original. Not just him, all Nigerian writers and artists suffered the same loss. Soyinka, Baba Sala, Achebe, Ekwensi, Sofola etc. That was back when naira had value: One naira to $1.50. Imagine now that it’s no longer a required reading material and naira is worthless. Where were you when he passed away and how did you receive the news? I was in the US when someone called from Bermuda to express his condolences. I asked, “What are you talking about? My dad and I talked two days ago about him meeting with my future in-laws to discuss wedding plans.” The caller from Bermuda informed me that he was reading Nigerian newspapers online and read that Prof had died of a heart attack. I went online and checked The Guardian and it was true. Then certain things came back to me from the last time we saw him in the US when we were planning our mom’s funeral. He changed the subject and started telling us how he wanted to be buried, the sharing of his property and will. That discussion was abruptly stopped when Oruene said. “Are you planning to die and leave us too?” It’s typical of her to say what everyone else is thinking but reluctant to say. “My mama,” he responded as he always called her because she was named after his mother.  He said a few things to her in Ijaw then ended in English. “I am not planning to die soon, however, it’s an inevitability for all of us and if my time comes, then I don’t want fighting or confusion at my burial or over who inherits what, so I might as well tell you now.” What was his burial programme like and where were his remains interred? It was much bigger than he himself planned. He wanted a quick and small funeral, stating that once he had accomplished his mission on earth and passed away, we, the living, should not go into debt trying to “impress the Joneses” with a flamboyant funeral.  Life goes on and we should keep it simple and move on with our own mission on earth; and not handicap ourselves with debt or depression. (He believed that) doing good to people while they are alive is more important than going broke to do a massive fanfare after they die.  However, other events came into play and we could not do the small burial that he planned. Lots of support and finances came from friends, family, OAU and the University of Port Harcourt, multiple organisations, within and outside Nigeria. The programme took on a life of its own like it was a stage play with a large cast directed by a master director from above. Thousands of people from all over came to Oduduwa Hall in OAU. Dignitaries, friends, press, TV, radio, former students, Nollywood actors, kings and representatives of kings and governors were present. He was buried on the grounds of the Dream House, where he and my mom hoped to spend their old age. What is the family doing to keep Ola Rotimi’s memories alive? We are publishing his unpublished works and turning some of the published works into movies through the Ola Rotimi Foundation, starting with Akassa Youmi. Several of his former students who are now lecturers, directors and producers perform his plays at home and abroad. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com