The Federal Road Safety Corps has deployed 35,000 personnel and operational equipment for special patrol during Sallah. The Corps Public Education Officer, Assistant Corps Marshal, Bisi Kazeem, said this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria on Thursday in Abuja. Kazeem said massive mobilisation of personnel and operational equipment was needed for successful operations during Sallah nationwide. He said the deployment was aimed at ensuring enhanced visibility and guaranteeing the safety of all road users before, during, and after the Eid-el Kabir celebration in Nigeria. Kazeem said the corps was embarking on the special patrol operation to ensure that motorists and other road users had a hitch-free celebration. “About 750 Patrol Vehicles, 120 Ambulances, 25 Tow Truck and over 200 Bikes would be on the road during the special operation that would commence on 16 to 25 July 2021 nationwide,” he said. He said the corps had over the years developed the tradition of organising special patrol operations during festive periods. “Motorists must endeavor to avoid traffic violations and remain conscious of their safety to avoid not only arrest and prosecution by members of the Corps but falling prey to avoidable road crashes. “The mission of the special operation is to ensure free flow of traffic, provide prompt rescue services, and timely clearance of obstructions on all major roads and critical corridors across the country,” said Kazeem. He added that the Corps Marshal, FRSC, Dr Boboye Oyeyemi, had directed commanding officers operating across various formations nationwide to ensure the effectiveness of the operations. Kazeem said the officers would cover the 52 corridors, adding that they would properly be manned throughout the period of the operations. He, however, appealed to motorists to obey all traffic rules and regulations and cooperate with FRSC personnel and other law enforcement agencies deployed for traffic management duties. He said mobile courts would be in session across the country for prompt dispensation of justice to traffic violators. (NAN)