Green Energy International Limited (GEIL), a leading oil and gas development company and the Operator of the Otakikpo marginal field has successfully negotiated and signed a new ‘’Memorandum of Understanding’’ (MoU) with one of its host community; The Ikuru Town Community. The MOU signing ceremony was witnessed and endorsed by the Rivers State Government representatives, from the Ministry of Chieftaincy Affairs and Community Development. The MoU encompasses improved governance and administrative components that would support the delivery of development outcomes in target communities, reduce youth restiveness and promote inclusion of women and vulnerable groups. The 5-year MoU covers a comprehensive operational structure that identifies key stakeholders who will act as sustainability drivers that would support Ikuru Town community to plan and undertake implementation of projects based on their development priorities and agenda; an approach that is yielding noticeable improvement in the social performance indices. The CEO of the Company, Prof. Anthony Adegbulugbe confirmed its intention to conclude the installation of the LPG extraction plant and power plants within the next few months in Otakikpo which is intended to open a whole new vista of interlinked, multi-level and multi-sectoral development investments, with significant socio-economic and technological impacts. Adegbulugbe added that the Company’s future expansion programs are anchored on sustaining a conducive and mutually beneficial relationship with its host community.  He further used the opportunity of the occasion to provide assurance to the Ikuru community that the Company is set to commence the full field development of the field which will include drilling additional wells, expanding the production facility to handle the increased production and installing the first indigenous onshore terminal with a capacity of 1 million barrels at Otakikpo.  This level of field development would definitely lead to a remarkable transformation of the host communities in terms of development and social change. Commenting on the MoU signing, the Paramount Ruler of Ikuru Town; King A.M Ikuru, expressed appreciation to the management and staff of GEIL; for continuously supporting the building blocks of community transformation through the delivery of sustainable programmes. He added that this MoU regime is designed to improve citizen’s participation that seeks to encourage a positive alignment of locally executed MoU-projects in the community; thereby enabling Ikuru Town to evolve into a socio-economic growth pole and reference point within the Andoni LGA and Rivers State at large.  On his part, GEIL’s Director for Corporate Social Responsibility, HRH David Serena Dokubo-Spiff further reiterates that the MoU identifies various development phrase and project ratios necessary to capture community groups including women and vulnerable people through the development of community development plan (CDP) that reflects the needs and aspiration of the Ikuru Town people and jointly implemented by the Trust fund.