The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Gorah Healthcare Limited, Mr Michael Olayinka, speaks on how the health insurance scheme works in this interview with NIKE POPOOLA What are the challenges of achieving universal health coverage in Nigeria? There are many challenges. These include Federal Government’s poor handling of the programme, absence of adequate legislation, lack of understanding of health insurance and the way it is practised successfully in other regions of the world.  There are also differences in the perception of each state government on the need for universal health care for their citizens. Other factors are poor funding of primary healthcare, unemployment, poor knowledge of the general principles of health insurance, cultural and religious beliefs, poverty and rigorous accreditation process for the promoters of Health Maintenance Organisation business in Nigeria. How does the National Health Insurance Scheme work? National Health Insurance Scheme is to provide social health insurance in Nigeria for all people resident in Nigeria. The healthcare services of contributors to the scheme (enrollees) are paid from the common pool of funds contributed by the participants of the scheme. The Health Maintenance Organisations register enrolees for the scheme; the enrolees pay a premium to the HMO while the hospitals (care providers) provide healthcare services to the enrolees and send the medical bills to the HMO for payment from the pool of funds generated from the premiums paid by the enrollees.  NHIS also regulates private health insurance plans operated by HMOs. Average life expectancy is low in Nigeria compared to many advanced countries. How can Health Insurance be used to boost this level? The life expectancy of Nigerians is low because many people die needlessly in the country because they do not have easy access to quality healthcare when they need it. An affordable and effective health insurance cover will guarantee adequate medical care when they need it. It will also provide them with the annual wellness medical check up which will identify any medical condition before it is too late. GORAH healthcare plans provide access to information, create healthcare awareness and reduce the incidence of alternative medical treatment and self medication. What do you think advanced countries have done right with their health insurance scheme which we have not been able to do in Nigeria? Our leaders in the Nigerian healthcare sector have not been able to put together a comprehensive and universal healthcare policy for the people. There is no trusted healthcare system nor organisation for the effective management of healthcare service delivery in Nigeria. The annual huge healthcare figures in the regular annual budget do not reach the ordinary citizens that need medical care and medical education in Nigeria is limited. We also need to deploy technology that will enable people in the rural areas access healthcare effectively. Government at all levels should provide healthcare services while the healthcare delivery structure should be simple and close to the ordinary people. There is need to increase the human resources in the health sector to meet the changing healthcare needs of the growing population. What is the level of health insurance penetration in Nigeria? The level of health insurance penetration in Nigeria is less than five per cent. Less than 10 million Nigerians have health insurance at present. What can government at different levels do to ensure better coverage of Nigeria? The local government can provide many more primary healthcare centres that will be easily accessible to the communities in the local government areas.  The state government can provide more funds to support hospitals, teaching hospitals and health centres to enhance their ability to cater for more patients.  At the national level, there should be increase in the provision for healthcare in the annual budget for all geopolitical zones in the country. How expensive is it to get a health insurance coverage? Health Insurance is not expensive to purchase. The lack of understanding of most people in the country precipitate their perception that getting health insurance is expensive. Health insurance is far cheaper than the cost of obtaining appropriate medical care. People feel it is easier to get quality treatment when you pay your hospital bill directly than when you get treatment under health insurance. What do you say to this? Health insurance guarantees quality treatment for the HMO enrolees at both primary and secondary healthcare providers’ levels. Using HMO is critical in the situation of emergency when cash may not be available.  Health insurance creates a medical community with effective networks of care providers that are responsible for their wellbeing. Health insurance provides the tool to manage family and corporate budgets in an efficient manner. It allows enrolees appropriate access to modern medical practice that guarantees quick recovery. HMOs and healthcare providers usually have clashes over premiums and payment of services. How is this affecting quality healthcare? The HMOs have two different contracts with the two groups of people;  one, with the enrolees and the other with the care providers. There are risk management issues involved in the two relationships. If the risk assessment is not managed adequately, the HMO will not be able to meet the financial obligations to the healthcare provider when the medical claims are presented for payment.  And when there is a default in prompt payment of medical claims, the care providers will be reluctant in providing further medical care to the enrolees thereby minimising their exposure to the defaulting HMO. There will be poor services to the enrolees who in turn will react to the HMOs. These are the main sources of conflict between HMOs and the care providers. Why can’t the health insurance scheme cater to chronic health needs like cancer, liver, kidney problems among others? The health insurance scheme does cater to chronic health needs if they are declared at the point of registration with the HMO. These needs are called pre-existing conditions of the enrollees. The HMO assesses the risk of each condition and revise the premium upward to accommodate the additional risk resulting from the pre-existing conditions of the member. In some cases, these conditions are not declared to the HMO at the point of registration. In Gorah HMO, what products have you introduced to make health insurance accessible and affordable? Gorah Healthcare Limited has introduced five major health insurance products to the Nigerian market. They are Gorah Corporate Plan, Gorah Standard Plan, Gorah Silver Plan, Gorah Gold Plan and Gorah Prestige Plan. The Gorah Individual Plans include Gorah Basic Plan, Gorah Life Plan, Gorah Premium Plan and Gorah Best Plan. We have the Gorah Senior Citizens Plans (for those above 60 years) which comprise of Gorah Diamond Plan and Gorah Platinium Plan. There is the Gorah Students Plan, Gorah International Plan and Gorah Customisation. All GORAH health plans are available for customisation. We do this in two ways. Clients can request additional benefits to any of our standard products for a higher premium (for example, additional benefits to our Gorah Silver Plan will be customised as Gorah Silver Plus). The other way is for clients to state their medical budget for each staff and ask Gorah to customise the medical benefits for each category of staff. Apart from corporate services, do you render services to individuals and family units as well? Yes. Our Gorah Individual Plans, Gorah Senior Citizens Plan, Gorah Students Plan and the Gorah International Plans are all individual health insurance plans. How do you monitor the healthcare providers to ensure they give your enrolees quality treatment? We organise a regular care providers forum where we share our vision and mission with our providers and the feedbacks from our enrolees. We also conduct medical audit of randomly selected care providers. Our medical unit visits the hospitals unannounced and review some of the enrolees case files for compliance and verification. We also ensure we pay our care providers promptly. Once we receive their claims, we carry out the necessary vetting (by our claims management unit) after which our accounts and finance unit conducts the audit of the claims.  The approved claims are paid subject to any observation by the vetting and auditing process of the company.  The care providers are advised of the reasons for non payment of any claim. We also receive regular feedbacks from our enrolees and carry out a random sampling of the enrollees that have visited the hospitals to ascertain their visit and medical services they received and record their experience and rating of the hospitals. What is your advice to employers and self-employed on taking health insurance? My advice to employers is: consider the health of the staff as a critical factor for the growth and development of the company.  Health insurance is a tested way of healthcare financing all over the world.  It enables the employers manage their staff medical budgets and ensure the welfare of their staff and their family members at all times. The employer must have health insurance for all categories of staff at all times.  In fact, the new Health Insurance Act (which was passed by the National Assembly on   April 17, 2019) requires that all employers including private sector employers should have health insurance for their employees. The self-employed enrolees can also benefit from health insurance by obtaining the appropriate health insurance package and maintaining adequate annual wellness check which most HMO plans provide. In this way the self employed will continue to operate at a very high productivity level while managing their annual medical budget efficiently. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com