Some Nigerians on social media have criticised the police in Lagos for lying on the cause of death of Jumoke Oyeleke, the salesgirl who was allegedly killed by a stray bullet during the Yoruba Nation rally in Lagos on July 3, 2021. They called for the identification and prosecution of the policeman who fired the shot. Agitators for the Yoruba Nation gathered at the Gani Fawehinmi Park at Ojota amid the presence of armed policemen and soldiers on July 3. Jumoke, who displayed soft drinks at her boss’ shop in a compound close to the rally ground, was killed when security men chased agitators into the premises. The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi, had claimed that she was abandoned after she was stabbed. However, her family and witnesses said she was hit when the police opened fire on the protesters. An autopsy conducted on the remains of the 25-year-old on Monday revealed that she died from a missile injury. On PUNCH Online and Facebook, where the autopsy report trended on Tuesday, readers criticised the police for lying and deflecting responsibility. A reader on PUNCH Online, Agunbiade Daniel, urged the police to identify the culprit. He said, “We thank God that they allowed for autopsy; the next thing is to investigate that bullet used and bring out the culprit and justice must be served when it is still hot. Though no amount of compensation is enough for the loss, they must do the needful, including the state government. We don’t want some stupid apology.” A Facebook user, Engr Ace, said, “Imagine the type of people we have in armed forces. No atom of sincerity. The autopsy shows how much false allegation the police has leveled against innocent souls they had killed in the past since the dead can’t speak. Thank God for the doctor that refused to be compromised, and was bold enough to issue an accurate result.” Another user, Oluwafemi Adeniwe, faulted the police for lying on the cause of death. He said, “Just imagine! On that fateful day, the useless Nigeria police came out to release an official statement debunking the news and saying no round of single live bullet was shot on the protest ground….just look at the results now; the unprofessional NG police killed an innocent girl.” Another reader, Princess Mia Elujoba, said, “The person that shot that gun must be shown to the world and get the punishment he deserves. What an unfortunate incident sending the lady to an early grave.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com