The Defence Headquarters on Thursday said troops of Operation Awatse arrested a suspected member of the Islamic State of West Africa Province, Ibrahim Musa, in Sango-Ota, Ogun State. The acting Director of Media Operation, Bernard Onyeuko, disclosed this while briefing journalists on the activities of the Armed forces between June 18 and 30 at the Defence Headquarters in Abuja. He added that Intelligence report revealed that Ibrahim was on a mission to Lagos to acquire certain items for ISWAP’s operations in Maiduguri. He said, “In South West, troops of Operation Awatse carried out standing patrols and raid operations at strategic areas in the zone including Majidun area, during which one Mr Ibrahim Musa, an ISWAP member was arrested at No 31 Abartura Street in Sango-Ota, Ogun State. “Intelligence report revealed that Ibrahim was on a mission to Lagos to acquire certain items for ISWAP’s operations in Maiduguri.” He added that other troops, acting on intelligence report on ongoing illegal oil bunkering activity at Alimosho NNPC pipeline, arrested one Mr Oyeshola Saheed, acting as the illegal bunkerers’ supervisor, noting that he named one Akanbi as the sponsor and financier of the illegal bunkering activities in the area. Onyeuko stated that vehicles and equipment used for their operations were recovered and handed over to appropriate agency. He also said troops of Operation Delta Safe within the period conducted several operations which led to the deactivation of illegal oil refining sites and disconnection of illegal oil pipelines. He added, “Troops also arrested several criminal elements, intercepted and confiscated large quantities of contraband vessels and items as well as recovered weapons and stolen items between 18 and 30 June.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com