Let the truth be told an average Nigerian girl/lady is unfortunately into prostitution with pleasure or under duress! The average girl has been raised not to see anything wrong in sex outside marriage and would gladly give herself to the highest bidder. I get mails from girls/ladies daily and they innocently ask me what I expect them to do when their only source of having a good education or three-square meal and all the comfort or as little as the basic necessities their fathers could never afford to give them is a man who wants to sleep with them! Take it or leave it, these girls would prefer to learn the art of make-up, seduction and body enhancement and even go to the extent of resorting to voodoo to have rich men fall over them than study hard and make the most of their God-given potential. Yes! Because society has proven that men and women with vices are better recognised and hyped than virtuous people as expressed by people, displayed on social media and even as expressed by business organisations who would rather splurge on indecent reality shows displaying youths who add no value to society than celebrate uncommon brilliance, intelligence, integrity, moral uprightness etc. Sadly, a lot of parents who should assist their children on the right path to follow are either unavailable, nonchalant, morally-bankrupt or practically pushing their girls into prostitution by encouraging them to date so soon and never batting an eyelid or bothering to make enquiries whenever they take home expensive gifts or clothing they didn’t buy them! When your foundation is indirectly telling you, you can do as you please, what can anyone tell you that would make sense? We are in a society where “runs girls” – ladies whose preoccupation is to sleep with men for money are the role models of an average Nigerian girl. I deal with these younger ones daily and I know the type of ladies they’d rather emulate! A society where thieves and people of questionable character are glorified!!! We are in an impoverished society where an average man would never assist a young lady unless he sleeps with her, especially because he feels that’s what an average lady does! Can anyone blame his sheer wickedness when our girls fling themselves over men and sell themselves cheaply? We are in a society where the youth-driven church would rather preach about wealth-acquisition than lay emphasis on you seeking first the kingdom of God! Lord  have Mercy. What a shameful, depraved world! If you don’t intentionally raise your children positively, the devil will raise them for you! These girls need your help early enough to be taught contentment, patience, endurance and godliness in all forms. They don’t know what they’re doing! The world has become so hostile, oppressive and highly-competitive!  I pity, pity, pity our unborn children! What type of mothers would raise them? This is a very serious matter! Parents… parents… parents, if you don’t drive godliness into your children’s souls early enough- society will take over their lives. I plead with you to ensure your children prioritise their lives, shun inanities as much as possible, pursue holiness, concentrate on their studies and graduate in flying colours so they can have a better life than yours and take care of you in return in future after all you have suffered for them. Girls…girls…girls, the earlier you face your potential, make the most of it and map out a comfortable future for you and your unborn children the better. Stop having your head in the clouds, believing you will certainly end up with a rich man in future because you’re beautiful. There are too many beautiful women in the world today who have been turned to cesspits because they are dependent on men for survival. And once you develop the habit of sleeping with men for money, the devil takes over the reins of your life and can make you do just about anything for money! Don’t fall into the devil’s trap. God has given you virtues that could fetch you what the resources of your entire generation can never have. You have all it takes to have all the money in the world without sleeping with any man. Follow God with all your heart and see if you won’t have more than you can possibly exhaust in a lifetime. May God bless you all and make you very great in Jesus name! I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram@ Okeowo Temilolu. Are you still engaging in pre-marital sex? Each act devalues you! Your wonders are waiting to start. God is waiting for you to become a secondary virgin! You are most welcome on board the chastity campaign train and Girls Club is open for all girls and ladies. Please text your name, age, school or occupation and State of domicile to 07086620576. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com