Public and private schools in Lagos State will be resuming for the first term (2021/2022 academic session) on Monday, September 13, 2021, the Lagos State Government has said. A statement signed by the public affairs officer, Office of Education Quality Assurance, Emmanuel Olaniran, said this was in line with the mandate of the Lagos State Ministry of Education to ensure a harmonised academic school calendar for both public and private schools. The OEQA reassured stakeholders of prioritising harmonised instructional days of learning for all schools in the state. The academic calendar also reflected the introduction of Staff Professional Development for all schools, which is a five-day capacity development for teachers prior to the first week of resumption. The statement read in part, “As schools will be resuming for the First Term (2021/2022 academic session) on Monday 13th September, 2021, the Lagos State Government through the OEQA has reassured stakeholders of prioritising harmonised instructional days of learning for all schools in the state.” In another development,  Director-General, Office of Education Quality Assurance, Mrs Abiola Seriki-Ayeni, has advised the recently trained OEQA evaluators to apply the knowledge they have garnered to provide quality and effective education to learners in the state. Speaking while presenting certificates to the OEQA evaluators who participated and completed the Right Teacher Online Training on, ‘Impact and Influence of the 21st Century Teacher,’ she urged them to reflect the new knowledge in their basic primary assignment and perform competently in their respective duties. Seriki-Ayeni explained that the importance of training and retraining in the education sector was key to achieving all round quality education and effective performance as stated in the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals. “This is central to the OEQA as they are determined to achieve quality students’ learning outcomes through continuous empowerment of education professionals which is clearly the solution to the recurrent challenges in the educational system,” he said. The Convener, Right Teacher Academy, Dr Abimbola Ogundere, said the Right Teacher Academy was a ten-week programme. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com