•Resident doctors, Ngige disagree over strike notice The Federal Government has said it will take the final decision on the new hazard allowance for health workers. The Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige, stated this on Thursday while briefing journalists after a meeting of the Presidential Committee on Salaries, relevant Federal Government stakeholders, professional associations, and trade unions in the health sector. Ngige explained that the government allowed enough time for the Nigerian Medical Association and the Joint Health Sector Unions to harmonise their different positions on hazard allowance, but they were unable to do so. Consequently, the minister said the matter would be taken back to the National Salaries, Wages and Incomes Commission and the Presidential Committee on Salaries to decide on the new hazard allowance for health professionals and workers. These were contained in a statement on Friday by the Ministry of Labour spokesman, Charles Akpan, titled, ‘FG to decide new hazard allowance for health workers, directs NARD, JOHESU to withdraw strike notices.’ According to Ngige, the government is treading cautiously in order not to be seen as trying to stampede the health workers’ rights. He said, “We would have separated them into JOHESU and NMA, but that will give us a lot of problems in terms of the implementation of whatever we agree on. “We are taking them jointly and it is yielding fruit now. The two big bodies have given their final positions. The government has taken their final positions back. We have also allowed them time to see if they can discuss among themselves like they did just before COVID-19 and we came out with COVID-19 allowance. “We have given them time to see if they can meet and harmonise their positions, but they were not able to do so. We are adjourning this meeting sine die for the government’s side to look at those two positions and see whether we can do a middle-of-the-road position within our organisation. The NSIWC, which by its mandate, is the government’s organ that fixes salaries, wages, allowances and remuneration.” Ngige recalled that the Federal Government earlier offered the health workers 300 per cent increment on hazard allowance which came to a quantum amount of N37.5bn. He said they were trying to work within that realm of N37.5bn following the inability of the unions to harmonise their different positions. “It is a teething problem because everybody has Collective Bargaining Agreements and we are now renegotiating the CBAs. There are CBAs in 2006, 2009, 2013 and even court pronouncements by the National Industrial Court, especially on work value and equal pay. These are things we will put in a basket and decide,” the minister added. Regarding the trade dispute notices issued by the National Association of Resident Doctors and JOHESU, Ngige said he had directed them to withdraw the strike notices immediately. “I told them to withdraw because it is arm-twisting. It is not allowed in International Labour Organisation CBA negotiations. So, we expect them to withdraw those notices they gave,” he said. However, the NARD President, Dr Okhuaihesuyi Uyilawa, in an interview with Saturday PUNCH had said that the association would not withdraw its strike notice and neither will it succumb to threats by the Federal Government. He said, “This is a joke. Our strike is not even based on the hazard allowance. Our strike is based on the ultimatum we gave sometime back and government has not attended to any of the things we stated in the memorandum of action, so why should we withdraw the ultimatum? “The brain drain in Nigeria is much. Our members are being owed salaries. “Government needs to stick to what we signed on April 10. Going back to the MOA, what has been achieved since then? Yes, we had issues with the hazard allowance of five thousand naira to health workers. Have you ever asked what is being paid to senators and ministers? “Unless they attend to the MOA we signed with them, we will not withdraw the ultimatum.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com