A non-governmental organisation, Media Rights Agenda, has warned against the killing of a youth, one Isma’ila Isah, who was arrested by the police for alleged blasphemy in Sokoto State. It also called on religious leaders in the country to refrain from making statements capable of inciting violence by their followers against persons accused of insulting their religious beliefs. It was reported that Isah allegedly posted the blasphemous comment against Prophet Muhammad on Facebook in protest after he was denied a job in his local government area. Some angry residents in the area were said to have stormed the palace of the Sultan of Sokoto, Sa’ad Abubakar III, demanding Sani’s arrest and calling on the authorities to punish him. The state government was also reported to have condemned the “unholy behaviour,” adding that the administration of Governor Aminu Tambuwal “would not condone such acts against Prophet Muhammad (S.A.W) or any other prophet of God or His scriptures.” But the MRA on Friday lamented that the absence of decisive measures by the Federal Government and many state governments against incessant calls by “so-called religious leaders” on their followers to kill other citizens alleged to have insulted any religion or religious figure or accused of blasphemy was unacceptable and unjustifiable. MRA’s Programme Director, Mr Ayode Longe, described the calls for Isah to be killed as unlawful, adding that those urging the authorities to put the youth to death should be treated like criminals as they could not arrogate to themselves the roles of the complainant, prosecutor, judge and jury. He said though blasphemy was an offence in some parts of Nigeria, it was not within the authority of anyone to take another person’s life or incite others to do so without the due process of the law as any person alleged to have committed an offence was entitled to a fair trial before any punishment could be imposed. According to him, by condoning the barbaric conduct of those who sought to subvert and circumvent the sacred principle of justice, the government was complicit in portraying Nigeria before the world as “a country where jungle justice is a culture and persons can be killed with impunity for alleged offences without the due process of law.” Longe, in a statement titled, ‘MRA Condemns Growing Trend of Incitement to Murder, Calls for Decisive Government Action,’ was quoted as saying, “Nobody has the power or right to call for the killing of another person for any reason whatsoever or under any circumstance when the person has not been charged and tried before a court of competent jurisdiction, convicted and sentenced to death for an offence that carries the death penalty. “Anybody who calls for the killing of another person is a criminal in the eyes of the law and should be arrested and prosecuted accordingly. We fail to understand why the government continues to encourage and enable such lawlessness by ignoring the criminal conduct of such individuals parading themselves as religious leaders. “The government has a duty to protect the lives of all citizens, including those who are accused of offences.  The government, therefore, has an obligation to check the conduct of those who have arrogated to themselves the roles of the complainant, prosecutor, judge and jury, and are quick to condemn others to death for utterances that they disagree with or even find offensive, in violation of the Constitution and the laws of the land.” The statement added, “MRA called on the Federal Government and the Government of Sokoto State not to overlook the latest of such incidents in the state where an Islamic cleric, Sheikh Bello Yabo, while delivering a sermon in Hausa in a mosque in Sokoto reportedly ordered the murder of a young man, Isma’il Isah, who was arrested in Sokoto on allegations of blasphemy against Prophet Mohammed. “In his sermon, a video of which is currently in circulation, Sheikh Yabo is heard ordering the killing of Isma’il whenever he is released from custody. Isma’il reportedly made comments which were considered blasphemous, on Facebook in frustration over his failure to secure an appointment with a local government in the state and was arrested as a result. “MRA called on the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Mr Abubakar Malami (SAN), as the chief law officer of the country, to intervene and ensure that no harm befalls Isma’il and that the rule of law prevails in the handling the matter as it is his duty to do so.  It also called on the Sokoto State Government to ensure that no harm befalls Isma’il as a result of citizens taking the law into their own hands.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com