The Speaker of the Parliament of Ghana, Alban Bagbin, who is on an official visit to the House of Representatives, has called for stronger ties between his country and Nigeria. Bagbin, who extended greetings from the President of Ghana and Chairman of the Economic Community of West Africa States, Nana  Akufo-Addo, said his country hailed the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and Nigerians for participating in the Statutory ECOWAS Summit, which extended the chairmanship of Ghana’s President. The Ghanaian Speaker also applauded the efforts of former President Goodluck Jonathan in leading the ECOWAS Mediation Team to find a solution to the political instability in Mali. However, Bagbin said, “But  it is important to mention at this stage that relations between our two countries have not always been smooth.” The Ghanaian Speaker noted that his country was making progress in resolving the concerns of the Nigerian traders in Ghana. He added, “Only peace between equals can last. To this end, it will be highly appreciated if the Government of Nigeria will review the prohibition list banning the importation of specific goods and commodities into the Nigerian market from countries including Ghana. This request is underscored by the resolution as captured in the communiqué of 31st May 2021 referred to supra. “I have no doubt, Rt. Hon. Speaker, that under your sterling leadership of the House of Representatives of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, an institution of measureless might and majesty, Nigeria can fine tune the prohibition list to align with contemporary international trade practices.” Later at a press conference by the two Speakers, Gbajabiamila disclosed that the Minister of Trade and Investment and the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs would be going to Ghana with their technical team to put finishing touches to the agreements that had been reached in terms of the trade agreements and the issues that have been recurring between the two countries. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com