The Niger Delta Power Holding Company of Nigeria on Wednesday announced the flag-off of construction work on a 15km 33kV power supply line from Ile-Ife Transmission Substation to Garage-Olode Town, Ife South Local Government Area, Osun State. It said the project when completed would restore power supply to the area, which had been without electricity supply for over 10 years. The company said in a statement issued in Abuja that the official flag-off was done by the Governor of Osun State, Adegboyega Oyetola. The Executive Director, Networks, NDPHC, Ifeoluwa Oyedele, said the distribution intervention project also include the rehabilitation of the 15km 33kV Ifetedo/Garage-Olode power line. He said the project would see the dualisation of 3km of 33KVA line from Mayfair roundabout to Modakeke, adding that eight 300KVA and eight 500KVA distribution transformers would be supplied and installed in the community. Oyedele said, “Following the intervention of the governor of Osun state, the NDPHC visited Garage-Olode Community for location inspection and discovered that its electricity supply is being fed from old Akure Transmission Substation which has been dilapidated for a very long time. “In scoping this project, we engaged IBEDC (Ibadan Electricity Distribution Company) and we have been assured that the intervention of NDPHC in the improvement of electricity infrastructure in this community will align with their proposed infrastructure upgrade and that of the entire state.” The NDPHC official added, “With this intervention, there will be great improvement in the condition of living of the people, socio-economic activities, commerce, industry and general wellbeing in Garage-Olode community.” On his part, Oyetola who flagged-off the project, commended residents of the community the people for their patience in the past 10 years without the supply of electricity. “I am elated that we have now brought to an end the tortuous journey that left you, our dear people, in darkness for over 10 years,” the governor stated. He said the power intervention efforts would help to power towns and villages such as Iyanfoworogi, Aye Coker, Aye-Oba, Wanikin Eleja, Egbejoda, Idi Obi and Ali Ahanran in this first phase, and when completed, the project would cover the entire Ife South Local Government Area.