AS the crisis in the Enugu State chapter of the All Progressives Congress deepened, Senator Ayogu Eze on Tuesday, appealed to the party members to imbibe the spirit of love, unity and peace for the party to enjoy a smooth exercise that would guarantee its success in the 2023 elections. Eze, who was the APC governorship candidate in the 2019 election, made the appeal during the party stakeholders’ meeting at the state secretariat ahead of the forthcoming congresses of the party. The senator noted that the progress of the party depended on how successful it conducted the congresses. Our correspondent reports that the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Geoffrey Onyeama, had on July 4 held a similar meeting with his own faction at the Dome Event Centre where members loyal to the former Chairman of the party, Dr Ben Nwoye, were barred. But Eze urged the party members to position the APC as a party capable of winning elections in the state. “Let us stop the crisis until we get the governorship seat. If we’re united, we will win elections and there will be enough food on our table and appointments will come from within us here. “Let us go back to our wards and harmonise our lists. We must go to Abuja (National Convention) as a united front. We must not let what happened in Abuja in 2018 (whereby Enugu did not participate) happen this time”, Eze, a former member representing Enugu North Senatorial District said. Another leader of the party and Director General, Voice of Nigeria, Osita Okechukwu, stated that APC was united in Enugu but only needed to cement the unity. Okechukwu, represented by Chief Godwin Onwusigo, said, “The people at the grass roots need to know who they elected. We must not give room for writing of lists because that will further exacerbate the balkanisation of the party.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com