The Federal Government on Thursday disclosed that it is yet to deploy the World Health Organisation’s intervention programme in the treatment of malaria in the country. The Minister of Health, Osagie Ehanire, disclosed this during the inauguration of the Nigeria Intermittent Preventive Treatment of Malaria in Infancy Research and Policy Uptake task team in Abuja. According to Ehanire, the WHO in 2010 had recommended the adoption of Intermittent Preventive Treatment of malaria in infancy as one of the preventive interventions for deployment in sub-Saharan Africa. He said, “In 2010, the World Health Organisation recommended the adoption of Intermittent Preventive Treatment of malaria in infancy as one of the preventive interventions for deployment in sub-Saharan Africa, where the P. falciparum parasite is prevalent. “However, Nigeria has yet to deploy this intervention or conduct a large scale in-country pilot since the recommendation by WHO to provide local evidence of its effectiveness and acceptability, hence the need to conduct this study.” The minister however noted that the IPTi had been shown to reduce clinical malaria, anaemia and severe malaria in the first year of life. He added” Treatment is given three times during the first year of life at approximately 10 weeks, 14 weeks, and nine months of age, corresponding to the routine vaccination schedule of the Expanded Programme on Immunisation.” Ehanire, however, added the Federal Ministry of Health, through its National Malaria Elimination Programme, had secured support from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, through Malaria Consortium, to commission a research, to gather critical evidence over the next three to four years, to guide policy decisions regarding the adoption of this intervention in Nigeria. He said “I am therefore pleased to set up the National IPTi Research and Policy Uptake Task Team, which will serve as a source of support for knowledge management and engagement with key National and sub-national stakeholders to increase the likelihood of uptake and acceptability of the findings from this research that provide national policy guidance regarding clinical effectiveness of IPTi. “I believe this intervention is promising and will contribute substantially to our efforts towards malaria elimination in Nigeria.”