Actor, Olatayo Amokade, popularly known as Ijebu, has described social media as a ‘bane’ for many of his colleagues in the entertainment industry. In an interview with Sunday Scoop, he said, “One of the major challenges entertainers are facing now is social media. Back when there was no social media, the little problems we had were solved within ourselves. We would call each other, maybe set up a meeting and then apologise. But now, whenever there is an issue, before one knows it, it would have been on blogs and everywhere else. When I check the news in the morning, I see more negative news. What celebrities are supposed to settle among themselves would be everywhere online.” At a time when many skit makers and online comedians keep popping up, the 42-year-old comedy actor stated that using social media to promote one’s talent is the way to go. He said, “When one is talented and has content, one needs to make skits and put them online. The only thing we did back then was to collect money from marketers and produce movies. At the end of the day, they would pay us off. We didn’t know that some of the movies were put on YouTube and some of them could have as many as 20 million views. “I started doing skits in 2015 and it has helped me a lot. I just wanted to make sure that I delivered my own content and maintain an online presence. Even veterans in the industry are doing it. If one wants to remain relevant in the industry, one has to do it. “People doing skits and having their own social media channels are making a lot of money. Meanwhile, if one makes a movie for a marketer and collects royalties, the money may not be enough. One is only doing it because one wants to stay relevant. Skit makers put their videos online every day and simply tell their fans to go and watch them. However, we (actors) cannot do that every time, so we have to create our own content. It is another avenue to earn from one’s craft.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com