Ikeja Electric Plc has inducted 20 young engineers into a 12-month comprehensive developmental programme to improve their capacity and practical field practice experience. The firm said the Young Engineers’ Programme was designed to be an immersive and experiential learning experience for selected young engineers, focusing on processes, procedures and operations of the Nigerian electricity supply industry. According to a statement, the programme, which is in its sixth edition, will also involve a blend of learning approaches; instructor-led classroom sessions, virtual sessions, field and on-the-job practical sessions to ensure effective learning transfer. The Chief Executive Officer of Ikeja Electric, Mrs Folake Soetan, said at the induction ceremony, in Lagos, that the goal of the programme was aimed at building capacity of technical manpower with requisite skills, with key interest in infrastructural and human capital development of the power sector. “The key is in ensuring proper knowledge transfer from our very experienced technical workforce to the engineers coming on board; that is the one way to ensure that we remain relevant to the needs of our customers, guaranteeing our esteemed customers who depend on us for power, a reliable and qualitative service,” she said. Soetan noted that Ikeja Electric would continue to reinvest in its human capital to create a pipeline for the kind of leadership needed for future growth and development of the industry. “This strategy is part of the company’s objective of infusing and developing the next generation of competent and reliable professionals who are expected to be groomed with a broader perspective and exposed to the entire energy value chain as well as driving the company’s vision of being the provider of choice wherever energy is consumed,” she added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com