The Inspector-General of Police, Baba Usman, has said plans are in place to have a central database for criminals in the country. Usman, who stated this while speaking with journalists during a virtual chat, stated that the database would help the police to keep records of criminals throughout the country and help in their investigation. “Nigeria is working on a central database for criminals across the country and efforts are in top gear towards acquiring more tools for policemen to work with,” he stated. He also said the ban on the issuance of permits for tinted glasses was not directed at factory-fitted tinted glasses for vehicles. The IG noted that he was aware of complaints that some policemen were taking advantage of the ban to harass vehicle owners with factory-fitted tinted glasses, adding that efforts were ongoing to address the excesses. He said, “We understand that there are usually issues with policies and their implementation. The directive on tinted glass is not about the factory-fitted ones, but those that are artificially made to cover the whole screen. “If you look at the factory-fitted tinted glasses, you can still see through them and if there is any need for the driver to open the doors, the security officers will know. But those that are not factory-fitted are completely covered so that no one knows who or what they carry. Those are the ones the ban is targeted at. “An enforcement mechanism that will enforce the standardised process of issuance of SPY number plates and tinted glass will be implemented across the country. Speaking on the attacks on police stations, Usman said there had been a reduction of such incidents because the Nigeria Police Force had collaborated with other security agencies across the country.   ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com