Dear Mummy Temilolu, I have been following you back-to-back since 2015 and you have been a source of inspiration and motivation to me. Your articles in Saturday PUNCH were timely and served as my moral guide as a teenager. Thanks so much for setting my life on the right path. May God reward you immensely. Majemuoluwakiiye, 19 Dear Mummy Temilolu, My parents have been in the village and my dad died three months ago. I’ve been staying with my sister since 2019 and her husband paid for my SSCE and NECO. My sister and her husband welcomed me into their home as they needed help, treated me well and encouraged me to take UTME. If I do well, they will sponsor my education. My sister’s husband was so supportive, has been taking care of me and would go extra lengths to make me happy not knowing he was doing all that because he had amorous feelings for me! The man defiled me at the age of 17! The first day he took my virginity I was very angry with him and he apologised that it would never happen again. He said that it was a temptation he couldn’t conquer, not knowing that it was the beginning. Now, I’m addicted to sex even when I swore to remain a virgin till my wedding night! Right now, he’s the only help I have in my life and I can’t afford to deny him. Even when my sister is at home he would be having sex with me. Please I’ve never told anyone in my life. You are the only one I want to tell because of the genuine love and attention I see you giving girls and I don’t know what to do or to go! Miss O. Dear Mummy Temilolu, I am a 21-year-old lady and I lost my mother when I was 15! She gave birth to two of us and I’m the older. My dad remarried and he has seven children from my step-mum. Due to the maltreatment my brother and I got from my step-mum which included starving us always and making us sleep on the cold, bare floor in our passage every night, the worst of it was that there was a day I peed and she ground and put fresh pepper in my vagina. Eventually, my aunties had to take us away from her and that was how my brother and I got separated. A year after staying in my aunt’s house, she changed totally. Everything I did was just not okay. I tried everything in my reach to please her, hawk food for her, deprive myself of sleep by fetching drums of water as early as 4am using a well with no one supporting me even though her children are all grown up! I had to return to my father’s house because there was a day she and her children beat me up because of an ordinary plastic bucket! I just couldn’t take it anymore, so she packed my bags and told me to leave! Now ma, I really want to be educated as all my life I have only dreamt of getting educated. In order for me to achieve my dreams, I had to take a job of N8000 every month because my dad is not financially buoyant because he has many children to cater for. The man I’m working for promised to cater for my needs and education because he knows I have no one to fend for me. However, he uses me like his sex slave. He gives me food and buys me clothes but I’m always depressed. My dad has entrusted me to his hands, so there is nothing I can do even if I want to run away. There is no one to cater for my needs. My brother had to drop out of secondary school. The N8000 salary is for our survival ma. I can’t lie to you ma. I’m really depressed and I need your advice before I go crazy. Miss R. Dearest People of God, In my last article, you’d recall I said an average Nigerian girl is into prostitution! I have counselled the ladies to stop sleeping with these men immediately. I am also trying to get them help that will lift them out of their horrible situation. However, who will help us beg men to be more merciful to the female folk? This is so despicable and heartbreaking. I tell you an average girl would remain sexually-pure but for survival yet we still have poor people bringing children they can’t fend for into the world! For everyone reading, I plead with you in God’s name to take care of any under-privileged girl around you. Our daughters are going through hell and if we damage those who are responsible for bringing the next generation into the world, the future will be most unbearable to live in and our children and grandchildren would suffer for it. I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @ Okeowo Temilolu. Are you still engaging in pre-marital sex? Each act devalues you! Your wonders are waiting to start. God is waiting for you to become a secondary virgin! You are most welcome on board the chastity campaign train and Girls Club is open for all girls and ladies. Please text your name, age, school or occupation and state of domicile to 07086620576. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com