The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority has urged air passengers to lodge their complaints about missing luggage with airlines as quickly as possible. Some passengers have recently lamented the disappearance and theft of their luggage at the airport. An air traveller, Tawakalitu Balogun, who travelled to Nigeria from the United States using Qatar Airways in June, narrated her experience to our correspondent. “It was the second time I was travelling to and fro the US; nothing like that happened the first time. A designer top and shorts I got for my partner and myself got missing; my sister-in-law who had just given birth needed some clothes to return to work; so I got her five gowns but they all got missing,” she said. She said she did not report the incident to the airline because she was discouraged by the experiences of people who had also suffered the same fate without any positive outcome. Another passenger, with the Twitter handle @SocialSalesGur1, tweeted last month, “I am writing to express my displeasure with the flight P47125 from Abuja to Lagos. “I arrived in Lagos and found out my luggage was nowhere to be found. This is very disappointing; that means my luggage was not moved from Abuja to Lagos. @flyairpeace I demand an immediate investigation on my missing luggage from Abuja to Lagos. This is very disappointing.” A Lagos-based travel agent and consultant, Olubiyi Oluwajoba, said during a recent tour he had with a company of travellers from Lagos to Dubai, some of their bags were thorn. “At least, three of the travellers’ bags were torn, while one of the rails attached to my bag was gone already,” he said. When contacted, the spokesperson for Air Peace Limited, Stanley Olisa, told our correspondent, “We treat our passengers’ luggage with utmost care. We hardly have a case of missing luggage. But whenever a customer comes with such a complaint, we commence an investigation immediately. And if the luggage isn’t found after 21 days, we reach a mutual understanding with the customer which is a global practice.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com