A group within the All Progressives Congress under the aegis of APC Stakeholders for  2023 Elections Victory, has said the Senator representing Niger East Senatorial District, Sani Musa, would reconcile aggrieved members and leaders if elected as the party’s National Chairman. Arrangements are currently being perfected by the ruling APC to elect it National Working Committee during its forthcoming National Convention. The party has even released its timetable for the conduct of ward,  local government and state congresses to elect its leaders. The party’s stakeholders in a statement by the coordinators, Yemi Adeleye and Sabiu Ali, which was made available to journalists in Abuja on Saturday, said Musa “is  the most qualified candidate to lead the party to another election victory in 2023.” The group argued that  Musa had gathered several experiences both in the business and legislative aspects to position him well as the APC National Chairman. Part of the statement read, “The Senator representing Niger East at the red Chamber is a grassroots mobiliser and a bridge builder. ‘‘In the current state of the APC, the party needs the leadership qualities of Senator Musa to continue the reconciliation and peaceful rehabilitation approach that has been entrenched in the party by the outgoing National Caretaker Committee led by Governor Mai Mala Buni of Yobe State. “This is the time for the APC to have someone in the capacity of Senator Mohammed Sani Musa as APC National Chairman to pilot the affairs of the party to victory in 2023 and beyond. “The Senator has been trustworthy and persuasive with sufficiently ability to digest and comprehend challenges at all levels. “He is committed manager of people and resources, who could deploy exceptional leadership organisation and communication skills to effectively handle high-performance cross sectional teams” The group maintained that  Musa has a proven skill in developing consensus at party,  committee and legislative levels. It added  that the Senator had also “ “exhibited qualities that could stand him out as a solid party man that can deliver the APC in all future elections.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com