The invention of the microscope in the 1800s was a scientific milestone that has led to revolutionary advances in medicine. It helped with the discovery of bacteria and parasites later in the century, which eventually led to the invention of antibiotics in the early 1900s. However, these inventions have also initiated our undoing in recent years. Drug-resistant superbugs have started surfacing due to persistent over-medicating. Since the discovery of microscopic organisms, the medical establishment has found many controversies regarding the involvement of bacteria in conjunction with or as a cause of other medical conditions aside from infection. For example, the bacteria, Helicobacter pylori, were in only recent decades shown to be a cause of stomach ulcers, having previously been rejected by the medical community. Lyme disease is currently facing a similar situation, with differing views on the degree of its prevalence and associated diseases such as chronic fatigue that is seemingly unrelated at first glance. We are entering a new era in which infections play a causative role in multiple disease entities other than infection. Infectious states When a microorganism invades an individual, physiologic changes such as fever, elevated white blood cell count, and positive x-ray findings typically manifest. This is what we commonly call an active infection, and most agree that antibiotic treatment is required. Sometimes lesser symptoms present themselves and exist over a longer period of time. These include enlarged lymph nodes, fatigue, persistent cough, and low-grade fever. Patients with these subtle signs and symptoms fall classically in a state of subclinical infection, and would still be treated with antibiotics. Another level below sub-clinical infection is known as the carrier state. At this stage, the organism is still in the patient’s body, but is controlled by the immune system. This means that the patient is not suffering from any physiologic symptoms at the time, but may in the future when their immune system weakens or falters. For example, patients who once suffered from chickenpox as a child may see the virus come out of hiding as shingles when they become older adults as their immune system weakens. There is another level below the carrier state known as the stealth level that is recently coming to the forefront. At this lowest level, microorganisms are normally undetectable by regular laboratory tests or by the immune system. They exist in the body unrecognised as a negative foreign entity. The body, therefore, does not mount an active defence response. The organism is still active, however, secreting toxins in minute amounts. These toxins affect the bodies’ physiology and generally weaken the body, allowing other organisms to invade opportunistically. Common signs and symptoms are extremely subtle and often have no apparent connection to what is generally accepted as signs of infection. They include worsening allergies, recurrent sinusitis, autoimmune disease, chronic diarrhea, brain fog, rash, anemia, delayed inflammation, food intolerance, and hormonal imbalance. A patient presenting with these symptoms will typically visit many doctors over time. These visits seldom lead to anything definitive, as medical findings are typically not significant, laboratory tests are normal and at best marginally positive. The clinician is baffled and the patient is commonly diagnosed as having anxiety or depression, and put on medication for such conditions. Stealth pathogens Common pathogens that can present themselves in the stealth state of infection include Candida, giardia, EB virus, Borrelia (causes Lyme Disease), various hepatitis viruses (causing hepatitis A, B, C and E), and H. Pylori (causing gastric discomfort and ulcer). Other less common pathogens that are linked to stealth infection include mycoplasmas, a highly pleomorphic microorganism. This is a common cause of walking pneumonia. There are many species of these very dangerous organisms. They exist in a physical state somewhere between bacteria and viruses. Detection is therefore very difficult.  In their stealth state, toxins are released slowly and consistently.  The body’s immune system is worn down slowly as it tries to neutralise toxins constantly. Traditional allopathic antibiotics are usually ineffective.  In fact, mycoplasma may be the end result of aggressive but failed medical therapeutics giving rise to their opportunistic infection. Like Candida and Borrelia, mycoplasmas in its regular state can cause low-grade gastrointestinal tract infections and dysbiosis as well as the ability to attack the entire body. No organ system is untouched. These stealth capable pathogens have also been linked as a cofactor to chromosomal aberrations, and other unexplained and complex illnesses, including chronic fatigue syndrome and a variety of autoimmune illnesses. For example, autoimmune thyroiditis has been linked to GI overgrowth of the opportunistic organism Yersinia enterocolitica; Kelsiella has been associated with ankylosing spondylitis; Campylocbactor has been linked to Guillain-Barre syndrome; Chlamydia has been tied to multiple sclerosis, and Cirtobactor a suspect in rheumatoid arthritis. Small intestine bacterial overgrowth The small intestine is also referred to as the small bowel and acts as a bridge between the stomach and the colon, or the large bowel. The small intestine digests food and absorbs it into the body. The small intestine, or bowel, has three different parts: the duodenum, which is where food empties from the stomach, the jejunum and the ileum, which both absorb various nutrients and empty food not fully digested into the colon or large intestine. The human gastrointestinal tract, which includes the small intestine, contains bacteria under normal conditions. The quantity of bacteria varies, with the colon having the greatest amount and the small intestine having the least amount. The colon contains different types of bacteria than would be normally found in the small intestine. A condition known as small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO) occurs when an abnormally large quantity of bacteria is living in the small intestine and the types of these bacteria are more in line with the types of bacteria that usually exist in the colon. Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO) also goes by the name small bowel bacterial overgrowth syndrome (SBBOS). The cause of this condition may be malfunctioning intestinal muscles or nerves or perhaps an obstruction of some sort or some other intestinal dysfunction. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com