The widow of Danladi Dauda, the 33-year-old man, who was allegedly tortured to death by policemen from the Yelwa Division, Altine Dauda, has been hospitalised after passing out. The PUNCH had reported that Danladi was arrested by a team of security agents in front of his shop in Yelwa Tsakani, a suburb of Bauchi metropolis around 9pm on Thursday, and was taken to the Yelwa Division, where he was allegedly tortured to death. The siblings of the deceased told The PUNCH on Sunday that since their sister in-law heard of the death of her husband on Friday, she had been crying profusely and demanding to see him. The immediate younger sister of the deceased, Dorathy, said Altine had passed out many times. Dorathy stated, “Since her husband and our brother died, she has been crying profusely. She has been crying as if her heart will come out of her body and before we knew what was happening, she had passed out. “We had to rush her to the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University Teaching Hospital, Bauchi, where she is receiving treatment. The incident (fainting) happened some minutes past 3pm today (Sunday).” Asked if Altine had been revived, she said, “I learnt that she is recuperating, because I didn’t go with them to the hospital. She suffered great shock as a result of the incident. “She has fainted several times; in fact, since the incident, she has fainted more than three times. “She has been asking to see her husband. Anytime she faints and is revived, she will start saying she wants to see her husband. “I can tell you that she has not been finding it easy, because they got married on December 25, 2020. She has been devastated and shocked.” Dorathy added that as a result of the way the police manhandled her on Friday at the Yelwa Division, she had been sick and unable to walk well. A younger brother to the deceased, Daniel, who rushed his sister-in-law to the hospital, said, “I just left her now in the hospital and came home. Although she is getting better, she can’t talk at the moment. Her condition is a bit stable now. “When she fainted this afternoon, some elders and I rushed her to the teaching hospital. They told us that it was due to shock. She’s currently being administered with a drip.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com