There was tension in Asaba, Delta State, on Thursday, following the killing of a yet-to-be-identified man by the police at the DLA Road, Asaba. PUNCH Metro gathered that some men, suspected to be Internet fraudsters, aka Yahoo boys, had driven a Mercedes Benz along the road when police operatives started chasing them. A witness, who asked not to be identified, told our correspondent that the youth neither had a gun nor fired at the police. He said, “The police chased their vehicle and shot at the tyre. The vehicle lost control and rammed into a fence. Three persons ran away; the driver of the vehicle came out and surrendered himself by raising his hands. Immediately, the police shot at him. The boys were five in the vehicle; three escaped, one was killed and they went away with his body, while one was arrested. “It is very painful that the police, who are being paid with taxpayers’ money to protect us, are now killing people without committing any crime.” Another witness claimed that he sighted the group coming out of a club and buying roasted plantain. He said immediately the youth drove out, the police went after them. “They may be yahoo boys, but they are innocent,” he added. The suspect who was arrested by the police was identified as Emmanuel Chinedu. Reacting to the incident, a human rights activist, Victor Ojei, described the action of the police as extrajudicial killing and called for proper investigation. He said, “One was arrested while one was shot at close range despite the fact that he surrendered, according to an eyewitness. This action must be investigated. This is extrajudicial killing of a very young boy who had a future.” The acting Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Bright Edafe, who confirmed the incident, said they were suspected armed robbers. He said, “Our men got information and ambushed them. As they saw the police, they ran away before they were chased. “They even shot at the police while the police retaliated and shot one, who died at a hospital. Others ran away, while one was arrested and he is helping the police in their investigation.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com