The primary objective of universities is to equip students with the tools to succeed in their future careers. To achieve this goal, universities, especially in Nigeria, have often relied exclusively on activities conducted in academic settings like classrooms and laboratories. However, Nile University of Nigeria is bucking this trend, by demonstrating the role of extracurricular activities, such as sports and student club activities, amongst others, in providing students with leadership skills, collaboration skills, and other relevant 21st century skills required for success in the contemporary world. The impressive achievements of the University’s basketball team— Nile Spartans— and its players in recent years is a significant success story of this strategy. Formed in 2018, the Nile Spartans has risen rapidly to one of the most respected and well-known teams in the second tier of the Nigerian National Basketball League. The team achieved this feat by overcoming an array of top professional basketball teams to win the prestigious Total National Division 2 Basketball League (in November 2019) in its first attempt and the Sam Ogwuche International Sports Foundation tournament (in June 2021), among other successes. Currently, the Nile Spartans are competing in the ongoing Total National Division 1 Basketball League, where they recently emerged as the champions of their Conference (Savanna Conference). Despite these laudable accomplishments, Hamza Abubakar (Founder and Head Coach of the Nile Spartans) argues that the biggest achievement of the Nile Spartans is its transformative effect on the students that form the team. He said, “Winning so many high-profile competitions in our short period of existence is an amazing feat that always excites me. However, what I am most proud of is witnessing how much these boys (players/students) have grown and matured since joining the Spartans. Watching some of the players, such as Levi Moses (team captain; 200 Level student of Information Technology), blossom from reserved and shy students into charismatic leaders capable of consistently inspiring their teammates to overcome difficult situations is an experience I will cherish for a long time.” Gaining leadership abilities is not the only way the Nile Spartans has impacted its players. According to Ali Sugh (Co-founder and Assistant Coach of the Nile Spartans), students have developed other crucial 21st century skills like teamwork by playing for the University’s basketball team. He stated, “The irony of team sports is that teamwork is not always a given. There are numerous situations where you find one or more players, usually the more talented ones, overrating their abilities and choosing to take on the opposition by themselves. The result is often a defeat for their teams. Mindful of this, Coach Hamza and I have created a strong culture of teamwork in the Nile Spartans where every player supports and covers (in the cases of mistakes) their teammates. Thankfully, the players have embraced this idea, and this has reflected in our impressive performances at the tournaments we have participated in.” Hamza attributes the immense progress made by the basketball team and its players in such a short period to the support provided by the Management of Nile University. “None of the successes recorded by the Nile Spartans would have been possible without the sports scholarships, significant financial support, and other forms of investments made on the team by the Nile management. Not many universities would offer such support for non-academic activities” he stated.  Boosted by its membership of the Honoris United Universities network— the first and largest pan African private higher education network committed to educating the next generation of African leaders and professionals able to impact regionally in a globalized world through the incorporation of the values of collaborative intelligence, cultural agility, and mobile mindsets—Nile University is well-placed to further its goal of preparing students for a well-rounded life by equipping them with the relevant skills learned through positive extracurricular activities. Nile University of Nigeria: Build your success for a better society.