This question has always sounded weird in my ears. It’s dubbed weird because nobody has ever given a convincing or soothing answer. Why do tragedies befall created beings who seem to be heading and strutting towards greatness in life? Why do disasters single out certain good and Godly people snuffing life out of them, or making them noisome examples of misery and pain? Why do bad things happen to good people? Why does unexpected life’s turbulence hit as God folds His arms of mercy watching the misery unfurl? I never heard about the story of Brandon Burlsworth until recently when I watched the movie, “GREATER”, made out of the young man’s life struggles. Brandon was born into a poor family in the small town of Harrison in Arkansas. In his small town, nothing big ever happens for people. As a little boy, he had his eyes set like flint on the game of football. From a tender age, he had prepared for the season the womb of opportunity would open up to fulfil his dream. He was chubby and many made fun of his body fat. Anytime he spoke out his dream, nobody, including his relatives, gave him a chance. Brandon studied at the Harrison High School where he was an all-state selection. After graduation, he received many scholarship offers from smaller universities but insisted he wanted to play for Razorback, the University of Arkansas football team. Since he was not drafted, he decided to work on trying out his luck among hundreds of others who wanted to play for the University. Brandon made the team in 1996 and was offered a full scholarship. During his first year, he faced a delay in earning his eligibility and worked hard to transform his 300lb chubby physique into a moderate 260lb body. Over the next two years, he reformed his body to become more muscular and went back to a 300lb physique. In 1998, he was selected for the ‘College Football All-America Team’ and became the first player from Arkansas to be selected for ‘College Football All-America Team’ since 1993. He played for the two SEC Western Division championships. With a 3.4-grade point average, he earned Bachelor’s (marketing management) and Master’s (business administration) degrees before playing his final game. The hope for a better life for his family was brightening up. They now had a son who could help the family live a better life. But more was to come for the young man. After his commendable football exploits in college, he was drafted by Indiana Colts, a National Football League team out of Indianapolis. He attended the minicamp and was looking forward to his new career as an American football player. Brandon was a young man of immense faith. Three people he respected and always listened to in his life were his mum, his coach, and his pastor. Dad was an alcoholic missing from his life. One day, an award ceremony was organised in his college, but Brandon decided to skip it because he wanted to take his mum to church that evening. Fifteen miles from his home, his car drifted into the oncoming lane on a road he had travelled for many years. He did not survive the head-on collision. He died at 22! The hope of the family was later buried not too far from home. The football team that drafted him gave all the family members a cheque for $5,000 each. He had not even played one game for the team.  But Brandon could have received about $10million as a football player a few days from the day he died. The unexpected turbulence of life hits as our God folds His hands of mercy watching the turbulence unfurling. But why do bad things happen to good fellows? There is a bad phenomenon in aviation called “Clear Air Turbulence”. It is a form of an untracked and unexpected pocket of air mass that pilots run into when flying even in beautiful blue skies. Disasters happen to many people not necessarily because they seek it, but because turbulence comes to man, many times, uninvited. The journey by air from New York to London usually takes about seven hours. The journey may be smooth until suddenly the plane runs into Unexpected Turbulence and the plane rocks back and forth. It is the same with the life that we live. Everything is cruising smoothly until something without expectations. Can we question God? He does as He pleases. We just have to move on. Life’s Turbulence comes in different shapes and forms. Sometimes, it claims lives. Sometimes, it wrecks a source of living. And sometimes, it sinks a beautiful home. The story of Thomas Alva Edison, the American mogul credited with inventions such as the first practical incandescent light bulb and the phonograph, is an example. The savvy businessman once ran into life’s turbulence. It was a gory experience with one of his businesses.  December 10, 1914, Edison walked to his plant in West Orange, New Jersey as 10 buildings on site had been engulfed in flames. The chemical-fuelled inferno was too huge to be quickly put out by the swift-responding men of the local Fire Department. Edison and his 24-year-old son, Charles, watched as the huge plant quickly became rubble of waste and piles of ashes. Edison said to his son: “Go get your mother and all her friends. They’ll never see a fire like this again…We’ve just got rid of a lot of rubbish”.  Edison later told a local newspaper: “Although I am over 67 years old, I’ll start all over again tomorrow.” Edison could have cried himself into a state of depression, but he smiled through the chaos and tragedy and prepared to start all over again. The next morning, he immediately began rebuilding without firing any of his employees. After the damage assessment, Edison had lost $919,788 (about $50 million in today’s dollars). The flames had consumed years of priceless records and prototypes, and his plant’s insurance covered only about a third of the total damage. In about three weeks, part of the plant kicked off working again; thanks to a sizable loan he got from his friend, Henry Ford. Edison and his team went on to make almost $10 million in revenue the following year. Edison mastered his emotions. That helped him to begin again. My friends, this world of confusion is all we know. You must understand why you’re here and live your purpose one day at a time. Live it all for God. No one knows when the lights will be out. I believe in God of time and season who does as He pleases. We live one day at a time and we live for God. That’s what we must do. No bitterness against anyone. No acrimony towards anybody. I stay in my lane and do what God has sent me to do. If money comes in millions, enjoy it and be a blessing to others. If it doesn’t come as much as you desire, so be it. But be happy and satisfied with what has come. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com