The remains of Mr Olubunmi Afuye, a journalist killed by armed robbers at Ilara Mokin in the Ifedore Local Government Area of Ondo State, have been committed to mother earth in Akure amid tears. Afuye, a broadcast journalist and Public Relations Officer of Elizade University, was killed during a robbery attack on a branch of the United Bank for Africa, Ilara-Mokin. A policeman and a motorcyclist were also killed during the attack last Thursday. The journalist reportedly ran into the robbers while driving. Prior to the interment, a funeral was held in his honour at the St. Thomas Anglican Church, Akure, the state capital. During the service, an Anglican cleric, Venerable Sunday Sanni, described Nigeria as a nation that does not value human lives. He lamented that people had continued to die needlessly across the country, regretting that life had become cheap in Nigeria. The cleric said, “There are many agents of death in this country. Everybody is in danger. In this country, life has become cheap. One of the resources Nigeria can afford to waste is human life. We don’t bother; we don’t care about human life. There are killings every day. People are dying in hundreds. “And I begin to wonder, what is happening to us? What is the problem with us in this country? Herdsmen are killing people, Boko Haram members are killing and banditry is everywhere. Nobody is safe. Even governors and politicians are not safe. “We are all living in perpetual fear. Even if none of those things kills someone, ailment may kill the person. What that is telling us is that we should be prepared.” Describing the deceased as a person who lived a short life full of impact, Sanni urged his family and friends to take solace in God. The elder brother of the deceased, Mr Sola Afuye, appealed to the government to address the security challenges in the country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com