Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed, has charged traditional rulers in the state to be more proactive in helping government tackle the security challenges especially kidnapping, banditry, rape and other crimes bedevilling the country. He gave the charge when the Emir of Bauchi led his council members, district heads and other titleholders in his emirate to pay him Sallah homage at the Government House, Bauchi on Wednesday. The governor particularly called on the Emir of Bauchi, Alhaji Dr. Rilwan Suleiman Adamu, as the Chairman of the State Council of Traditional Rulers, to admonish other Emirs, religious leaders and leaders at all levels to be more vigilant so that there will be peace and security of lives and properties across the state. He expressed gratitude to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) and other leaders in this country especially security agencies for their efforts at ensuring that there is peace across the country. He said, “We are very grateful to you for your efforts and support for all we are doing as a government that will bring succour to the poor in the state. You know their pains and needs because they come to you to tell you about what they face particularly the district heads that are under you. “We want to apologise to you for our shortcomings in government, we are imperfect before you as your followers. We are, however, happy about the projects you mentioned. “We are calling on you as our leader in Bauchi State, please, continue to admonish all Emirs and leaders at all levels to be more proactive so that we will have adequate peace and security. And so that challenges bedevilling us especially rape, kidnapping, banditry and other crimes will be addressed so that there will be peace. “We are grateful to you, district heads, Imams and Pastors for your prayers which is the reason why we are living in peace in the state and that is why Bauchi is seen as the most peaceful state in Northern Nigeria. “We are grateful because it is not by our wisdom, we know that there are a lot of things that you are doing for this to be possible. We will continue doing all we can to support security agencies so that there will be peace.” He said that the government is not unaware of the sufferings of Nigerians occasioned by the high prices of food-stuff in the markets. “We are aware of the suffering and the hardships of life being experienced by the people and we will not relent in making policies that will help in cushioning those effects,” he said. Speaking earlier, the Emir of Bauchi, Rilwan Adamu informed the governor that he was at the Government House with his District Heads to greet him as it is customary, adding that the visit will accord them the opportunity to extend their greetings and happiness for the good plans he has for the people of the state. He said, “On behalf of all the Emirs in the state, I want to extend our appreciation for the respect and honour that you and your government have for us. On behalf of the Council of Traditional Rulers in Bauchi State, we are committed as always to give you our support and advice on how to move our state forward, and by the grace of God, we are ready to do that.” Adamu also commended the governor for the developmental milestones recorded in the state in his two years in office. “We want to also commend you for the giant strides and the developmental milestones you have recorded with the past two years of your administration. “Few among them include the water expansion project within Bauchi metropolis and across the local government areas of the state and construction and dualisation of roads to reduce traffic congestion and crashes within Bauchi metropolis and other communities in the state,” he stated.