In this report, female taekwondo athletes recount their ordeal in the hands of Chika Chukwumerije in 2015, but the Olympian denies any wrongdoing despite a probe panel finding him guilty and an Abuja court ruling against his favour, write JOHNNY EDWARD and ‘TOSIN OLUWALOWO The last may not have been heard of the scandal involving Olympian Chika Chukwumerije over allegations of abuse of female athletes, after the High Court in Abuja dismissed a N500m libel suit by  Chukwumerije against Yemi Adeyemi-Enilari and Delateur Foundation on May 31. In the suit filed on December 22, 2015 against Adeyemi-Enilari and Delateur Foundation, Chukwumerije claimed that they (defendants) published on Nigeria Taekwondo Black Belt College Facebook page, a letter dated Monday October 5, 2015 purportedly addressed to “President, Nigeria Taekwondo Federation” concerning the claimant with the caption “Petition: Abuse and Assault of Taekwondo Athletes.” Adeyemi-Enilari, Chairman of Delateur Foundation, alleged in the post that Chukwumerije assaulted female athletes Fatimah Abdullahi and Esther Uzoukwu, who were in camp at Febson Hotel, Wuse Zone 4, Abuja in preparation for the 2015 African Games. In his ruling via Zoom, Justice U. P. Kekemeke of the Abuja court stated, “In the instant case, it is my view that the defendants have justified the precise imputation complained of and I so hold. The Defendants have proved that the gist of the libel is true. In the circumstance, the suit crumbles and it is accordingly dismissed.” It was learnt that other athletes who suffered similar abuse reported their ordeals to their state associations. Several petitions from these state associations on the alleged abuse were sent to the NTF, which led to a probe by the federation. Abdullahi, one of the affected athletes, recounted her ordeal in a petition written to the NTF. “During my first training he (Chukwumerije) instructed us to do certain things and when we didn’t do it right he used a rope tied with paper to beat us,” she stated in the report of the disciplinary committee cited by our correspondents. “There was a time he wanted to use a tiny iron rod to beat us, but Master Tony Anafulu stopped him from using it on us.” Findings by our correspondents revealed that several other measures taken by the Nigeria Taekwondo Federation and some stakeholders to ensure the affected athletes got justice prior to the court ruling, were largely unsuccessful. In an interview with SUNDAY PUNCH, Abdullahi said Chukwumerije, a bronze medalist at the Beijing 2008 Olympics, boasted that nothing would come out of the case. “I have only been getting help from Master Yemi (Adeyemi-Enilari); nobody in the federation has been supporting me, this is a case of fighting with someone who is more powerful than you. When we reported to the grandmaster and the grandmaster called him, he boasted to the man saying, ‘I am spending for taekwondo and I will still continue to spend for taekwondo, nobody can control me.’ Ever since, nobody talked about it again,” she told SUNDAY PUNCH George Ashiru, President, Nigeria Taekwondo Federation at the time of the alleged assault, said the report of the panel’s investigations was presented to the sports ministry, but added that there was no feedback from the ministry before he was controversially impeached in December 2015, prompting Delateur Foundation, an NGO, to take up the matter on behalf of the athletes. “Complaints were made and the federation took it up, but there was no feedback from the ministry until our tenure was over, so we don’t know what happened thereafter,” Ashiru told SUNDAY PUNCH. “What I can recollect is that some athletes complained to their state associations that they were assaulted and the state associations requested the federation to comment on that. Later on, an NGO decided to join the case, saying they were also fighting on behalf of the athletes. “As president at that time, we had a disciplinary committee and the norm was to pass the matter to that committee to investigate, which we did and the committee submitted their report at the board meeting. “Unfortunately, the day the report was to be provided by the chairman of the committee was when they decided they didn’t want to hear anything apart from impeaching me. “We were never formally informed about all the actions that were taken subsequently, till the end of our tenure, which I presume is the reason the NGO decided to make it public, to try to force the government to do something about it.” Head of the disciplinary committee Gideon Akinsola, a retired Assistant Commissioner of Police, said Chukwumerije was found guilty of the allegations by the committee. “When the athletes complained against him, we checked and saw the evidence that, actually, he was physically assaulting them,” Akinsola told SUNDAY PUNCH. “(Sunny) Obot was the secretary of the federation then and secretary of the committee that investigated the matter and we submitted our report to the federation, who said we shouldn’t use a sledge hammer to kill a cockroach; that we should take it easy to avoid division because they were preparing for the African Games. “But Chukwumerije didn’t help matters and started looking for a way to impeach the president and it led to our tenure coming to an abrupt end.” A copy of the disciplinary committee’s report titled ‘SITUATION REPORT ON CASE OF ASSAULT BETWEEN MR CHIKA CHUWUMERIJE AND SOME FEMLALE ATHLETES’ signed by then NTF secretary-general, Sunny Obot, and addressed to the Director, FEAD, National Sports Commission, stated that Chukwumerije physically abused the athletes. The report, dated December 11, 2019, read, “After carefully looking at the two (2) statements from the athletes and the discussion between the Secretary General and Mr. Chika Chukwumerije in camp, it was evident that the act was committed but since Chika could not talk to the committee, it became relatively difficult for the committee to determine his intention which could have given it a soft landing. “Therefore, it was thus decided that: (1) Chika should apologise to the athletes including the Taekwondo Community for assaulting female athletes (2) Where he fails to do so, he should be suspended from all Taekwondo activities for three months.” Obot stated that stand-in captain for the African Games Ayodele Temitope had reported to him that “Chukwumerije slapped in particular, three (3) female athletes (Esther Uzoukwu, Ifeoma Dennis, Joy Ekhator – a police officer) for their inability to kick according to his instructions.” Despite the disciplinary committee’s report and the court’s dismissal of his case, Chukwumerije, son of late Senator Uche Chukwumerije, maintains that he never assaulted the athletes in camp. “That is very unfair to me. I did not assault any athlete during preparations for the African Games in Congo Brazzaville,” Chukwumerije told SUNDAY PUNCH. “My family has a reputation. I can’t talk further because I have to respond to the World Taekwondo by Friday. I don’t want a media war. I have forgiven them. “These people are only trying to scuttle my plans for the sport. In three months there will be an election and this is coming up. I know their plans but they won’t succeed.” Two of the athletes mentioned in the disciplinary committee report have brought honour to the country at international events. Uzoukwu won a silver medal in the 73kg event at the 2015 African Games in Brazzaville, while Ekhator claimed two bronze medals at the African Games in 2011 and 2015 and a bronze medal at the 2014 African Taekwondo Championships. Abdullahi has also won several national titles. Abdullahi said after she was abused, she dumped taekwondo for another martial arts sports kung fu, because she was no longer invited for competitions. “It made me feel discouraged; I don’t go to taekwondo competitions anymore because there was one competition they were meant to invite the players ranked No.1 and 2 across the weights, but they only called up the No.1 in my weight category (56kg) because I was ranked No. 2,” she told SUNDAY PUNCH. “That was why I switched to kung fu, and I have gone on to represent Nigeria in various international competitions in kung fu. “One of my friends, who was also assaulted by him, has also not taken part in taekwondo since she returned from the African Games in 2015.” Uzoukwu, while testifying before the disciplinary panel, said she developed a phobia after Chukwumerije slapped her severally in the face and neck during training. “l can’t count it (number of times she was slapped). His kind of slap was injurious and it was not once, not even twice. At one point, I developed ‘Chika-phobia’ each time I heard Chika was coming. But if he was not around, that made me happy because nobody would beat me up.” Adeyemi-Enilari is unrelenting in seeking justice for the athletes. After the Abuja court struck out Chukwumerije’s case, he wrote another letter titled ‘Judgment delivered on Monday May 31, 2021 in Mr. Chika Chukwumerije vs. Mr. Adeyemi Enilari & ANOR implication of judgment’ and dated June 8, 2021 to sports minister Sunday Dare, asking that he be restricted from the athletes. “That Mr. Chika Chukwumerije’s interactions with taekwondo athletes, particularly the women, as a coach, and trainer, be supervised or restricted to prevent a repeat of the incidents. His involvement in the administration of sporting activities, especially in Taekwondo should be supervised,” Adeyemi-Enilari wrote. In a chat with SUNDAY PUNCH, he insisted he would not relent until the abused athletes get justice. “We are suing for damages and filing criminal case against him on behalf of the ladies in the High Court in Abuja. One of the ladies said she is interested because it’s assault. We are also appealing the judgment in the libel case at the Court of Appeal,” Adeyemi-Enilari said. “We are appealing on two grounds. One, it is a well-known fact that if someone takes you to court and the case is dismissed against the person who charged you to court, you are to pay damages, the cost awarded to you against the person who took you to court. In this case, there was nothing like that. “Secondly, the basis for which our counterclaim was dismissed was that the judge said we did not join the main parties – the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development and the Nigeria Taekwondo Federation – in the suit. When we were responding to the writ of summon, at the same time, we filed for counterclaim and we applied to join the sports ministry and the taekwondo federation as parties in the suit, but the judge ruled against us in 2016 that there was no need to join those parties. “But the judge turned around now and dismissed our case based on the fact that we didn’t join them, when he was the one that ruled against our joining them. So, we are appealing on these two grounds.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com