The Nigerian Council of Registered Insurance Brokers has endorsed Heirs Insurance Limited and Heirs Life Assurance Limited, which were recently inaugurated. The President, NCRIB, Dr Mrs Bola Onigbogi, gave the endorsement during the ‘NCRIB Members Evening’ in Lagos on Tuesday. The event, which was attended by brokers from different companies attended, was hosted by the acting Chief Executive Officer, Heirs Insurance Limited, Dr Adaobi Nwakuche, and the Chief Executive Officer, Heirs Life Assurance, Niyi Onifade. Onigbogi said, “I have no iota of doubt in my mind that Heirs Insurance and Heirs Life are companies to watch out for in the market. A critical examination of your workforce and your enthusiasm to host this members’ evening at a time like this is a pointer to a greater business exploit you are poised to accomplish.” Onigbogi described the companies as broker-friendly and endorsed them as partners for brokers to collaborate with. “I guarantee you for your endorsement by my professional colleagues,” she said. Nwakuche acknowledged NCRIB as an important stakeholder in the business of insurance, liaising between customers and insurance firms. While stating the mission of Heirs Insurance, she said, “We are on a mission to democratise insurance and make it accessible to everyone. To achieve this, we paid careful attention to the needs of every customer across all the social circles, while building our products. “We are pleased to say that we have simple and affordable insurance plans for everyone and we are confident that with the support from NCRIB, we will deliver on our promise of excellent service delivery to the public.” According to Onifade, the products Heirs Life is bringing to the market include its savings and investment products as well as term life and group life plans for employees. He said collaboration with NCRIB would advance both companies’ ambition of providing customers with simple, quick, accessible, and reliable insurance service. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com