Ecobank Nigeria has launched a programme to reduce gender inequality in entrepreneurship and aid equal representation for women in the formal business sector. The launch of the gender-based proposition for women-owned businesses, called ‘Ellevate’, in Lagos was attended by female entrepreneurs. Speaking at the event, the Managing Director, Ecobank Nigeria, Patrick Akinwuntan, said the objective was to be the leading pan-African financial institution driving financial integration and contributing to the economic development of the continent by deepening engagement with women-owned businesses. “Ellevate was designed by Ecobank to empower women-owned and women-managed businesses in Nigeria and indeed across all our Africa footprints, leveraging various unique financial and non-financial benefits,” he said. He said Ecobank’s Ellevate promised women-owned businesses an end-to-end partnership in which they could gain access to financial services specially tailored for them and loans at special terms and discounts. He said they could also get fixed deposit investments at special premium rates, zero account maintenance fee, continuous financial education and capacity building under its AUDA-NEPAD academy and other special arrangements. Akinwuntan said that they would have access to networking and recognition under its business clubs as well as access to markets, leveraging its various e-commerce solutions. He said they would also have “access to Ecobank’s unique digital payments and collections like Omnilite for payments, EcobankpayNQR for contactless local and cross-border collections and modern POS channels, and various lifestyle benefits including campaigns and promotions to drive Ellevate customers’ business growth and personal well-being.” According to him, Ellevate was designed for registered businesses owned by women or managed principally by women or with high percentage of female board members or manufacturing products for women. “This proposition is a total package addressing the broad needs of women-owned businesses in Nigeria including businesses that produce for women,” he said. Some successful entrepreneurs who spoke during the event include the Founder, Health Africa, Fola Laoye; the Founder, Braveline Growth Partners, Taba Peterside; and the Founder of Ruff n Tumble, Nike Ogunlesi. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com