Experts have stressed the need for Nigerians to improve their hygiene habits, saying this is important in curbing the spread of cholera disease. An Epidemiologist, Dr Stephen Fagbemi, in an interview with our correspondent, said cholera outbreak was always rampant during the rainy season because of peoples’ poor hygiene habits. “The issue of cholera is about personal and environmental hygiene. Now that we are in the rainy season, we should make sure the drains are clear; we should avoid throwing our waste into the gutters. “We should also ensure that our wells are secured; we should raise the edge of the wells so that running waters will not go into them. People should also avoid locating the well close to the toilets. “More importantly, if anyone is having frequent stool, he or she should report immediately to the health facility. During the rainy season like this, cholera disease is always rampant. Therefore, people should watch the kind of water they drink. There is also the need to urge people selling water to ensure that the water they are selling to the people is safe for drinking,” Fagbemi said. A Public Health Physician, Dr Samuel Abiona, in an interview with our correspondent urged the government to have a proper tracking system for those infected with cholera. He said, “Proper tracking is needed for treatment and isolation. There is also the need for sensitisation of people on hygiene. Boiling of drinking water, regular hand washing cannot be underestimated in the fight against cholera. “People should not keep infected people at home. Most times, people don’t report cases early because it comes with diarrhoea and vomiting and that is why there is always high mortality rates.” Abiona also urged the government to give the health workers treating cholera cases the needed support. No fewer than 10,833 cholera cases have been reported from January 2021 to June 2021 with 289 confirmed deaths. Data from websites of Nigeria Centre for Disease Control and state ministries of health also revealed that between May and June 2021, there were increasing cholera cases in states like Plateau, Bauchi, Gombe, Kano, Zamfara, Bayelsa and Kaduna States. Plateau and Bauchi recorded 1,004 and 2,874 cases in June 2021 respectively. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com