…Birth attendants wear nylon as gloves to take delivery Childbirth has become a nightmare for women at the Internally Displaced Persons camp, in Durumi, Area 1, in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, as poor healthcare facilities put expectant mothers at risk of serious complications while giving birth. ANGELA ONWUZOO reports: Mrs. Zara Muhammed, taking shelter with her husband and four children at the Internally Displaced Persons’ camp in Durumi, Area 1, in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja says she narrowly escaped death in May 2021 while giving birth to her fourth child. The problem, she said, was due to lack of access to healthcare facilities and obstetric care in the camp, which has been in existence since 2014. Muhammed said they were driven out of their ancestral home in Bama Local Government Area of Borno State in 2014 by the Boko Haram insurgency. According to her, two of her children had been born in Borno before they were driven out while the other two were delivered in the camp. “Being pregnant in this camp is a dangerous venture,” she told our correspondent during a visit to the camp. “Giving birth in this camp is full of risk because there is no healthcare centre here. The only health facility in this camp, called NAFHA clinic, has only one bed for delivery and there is no other equipment. The clinic (a container) was established in 2018 by Network Aid for Humanitarian Assistance, a non-governmental organisation, in Abuja. “There is no drug in the clinic; even ordinary folic acid to give to pregnant women is not available. Because of this, many women now deliver at home. The trauma I faced when I had my fourth baby two months ago is something I wouldn’t pray for anyone to experience,” Mrs. Muhammed said. Speaking with PUNCH HealthWise, Muhammed said it is usually a sad tale for pregnant women in the camp who develop complications during delivery. Giving birth in camp matter of life and death “Giving birth in this camp has become a matter of life and death. When I heard some of my neighbours discussing the horrific things that they faced when they had complications during labour and how the clinic in the camp failed them, due to lack of equipment and drugs, I thought it was a minor thing, until I experienced it. “I gave birth on May 23, 2021, through an unplanned caesarean section at the Maitama General Hospital, here in Abuja. I registered for antenatal care at the camp clinic and I knew my expected delivery date. “When I fell into labour, I came to the clinic and was here for two days in serious pain, without any medical interventions. The staff could not help me because they don’t have the equipment to work with. “The third day, when I couldn’t deliver, they checked me and told me that my baby had breached. So, they referred me to Maitama General Hospital for CS. Going to Maitama was a huge problem because of lack of money and my husband is jobless. “It took the intervention of the chairman of the camp who mobilised people in the camp to raise money for a deposit before I was finally rushed to the hospital in pain,” she said. Continuing, Muhammed said, “Getting to the hospital, they billed me N170,000 for CS, which was far from what was raised by the chairman. The chairman, however, pleaded with the hospital staff to collect the little amount he had with him and save my life and that of my baby first. “In the end, we were able to pay N140,000 and a good-spirited doctor at the hospital helped us to complete the N30,000 balance. I almost lost my life because, at one point, I became very weak. The pain that I went through wasn’t palatable at all.” Pregnant women and children living in starvation Muhammed further told our correspondent that beyond the challenges of childbirth, pregnant women in the camp were also faced with hunger and starvation. She lamented, “When I was pregnant, I scarcely ate because there was really no food to eat. And since I gave birth, I have been living in starvation. The government banned okada business and that made my husband, who is an okada rider jobless, and he can no longer provide money for feeding. “Worse still, there is no government intervention or assistance. The little food that we eat comes from kind individuals and some non-governmental organisations. “But it does not come always. I am not the only one experiencing this; a lot of nursing mothers in this camp are suffering. Nobody is feeding well. Most times, we only feed once a day.” In the camp, our correspondent gathered that some of the women who had complications had similar experiences asMuhammed. Many deliveries taking place at home Those who had vaginal delivery, PUNCH HealthWise gathered, also have sad stories to tell. Aisha Ibrahim, 26, also from Borno State, told our correspondent that she gave birth to three out of her five children in the camp. The mother of five shares her experience, “I came to the camp in 2014 with two children. But I have five children now. I gave birth to three in the camp and I delivered them at home. “My neighbour took the deliveries for me and helped me cut the placenta. I gave birth to them at home because there was no money to go and register in a hospital outside the camp, while the clinic in the camp has no delivery facilities.” Asked if she was aware of the risk of delivering at home, Ibrahim said, “When you are left with no choice, what do you do? At the camp clinic, they don’t even have drugs to stop bleeding, if a woman is bleeding; no injection to relieve a woman of pain after delivery. They don’t even have ordinary hand gloves. So, what is the essence of going there?” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com