The family of Dauda Danladi, the 33-year-old man who was allegedly tortured to death by Police operatives from the Yelwa Division, has express shock that Police denied their request for an independent autopsy on the corpse of their relative but went ahead to do same without their knowledge. The PUNCH had reported that the deceased, Danladi, was reportedly arrested by the team of security agents in front of his shop located in Yelwa Tsakani, a sub-urb of Bauchi metropolis at about 9pm and was taken to the Yelwa Division, where he was allegedly tortured to death. However, the Police through its Public Relations Officer, Ahmed Wakil, a Superintendent of Police, in a statement, claimed that a patrol team that went to the area to arrest some suspects saw Danladi lying in front of his shop gasping for breadth. Suspected to be having an asthma attack, he was rushed to the hospital where a medical doctor certified him dead. Speaking to our Correspondent, the counsel of the family, Shipi Rabo, said that they wrote to the Police demanding the release of the corpse to enable them carry out an independent autopsy but they refused. He said that the DPO of Yelwa Division where the incident allegedly happened called and invited him to come with his clients to witness the autopsy which would be conducted by the Police the same day he wrote to them. Rabo said, “I am their Solicitor and I am retained by his (deceased’s) family. When they briefed me, we wrote to the Commissioner of Police, Bauchi State Command and copied relevant security agencies including the DPO, Yelwa Division where the incident happened, demanding the release of the corpse within 24 hours for an independent autopsy. “I wrote them on the 11th of July 2021 and served them with the letter the next day, July 12th. They did not reply me but instead, the DPO of Yelwa Division called me and intimated me that they want to conduct an autopsy and they required the presence of my clients and their doctor, if they so wish as observers. “But I told him that we had written to the Commissioner of Police because they are involved and we lost the son of my client and we expect that they will allow us to conduct an independent autopsy. “After we spoke, he then sent me a letter around 1.00pm intimating me that they will conduct an autopsy by 3.00pm that same day, just an interval of two hours. I then called him (DPO) and insisted that we are still waiting for the approval of our letter from the CP because it was him we wrote to and not the DPO.” He said that they still did not get a reply that Monday from the Commissioner of Police until the next day, Tuesday early in the morning. “I got a reply through my email on Tuesday July 13th through my email at about 8.00am even though the letter was dated 12th July. “They wrote that I should prepare that they will undertake an autopsy and that I should provide a pathologist to come and witness it. This suggested to me that they did not approve my application to conduct an independent autopsy. And in that letter, they did not specify the time and the date when they will conduct the autopsy. “We felt that because they are party to the case, they cannot do justice to us by conducting the autopsy themselves. We felt that since it was our son that died, they should allow us conduct the independent autopsy,” he said. According to him, they consulted their medical team and they advised them that if the Police conducts their autopsy, they cannot conduct another autopsy and get the result they probably would desire because the body will not remain the same. He said allowing the Police to do the autopsy while they witness it with their pathologist “won’t be fair to us and that was why we decline their invitation.” Rabo said, “But unknowing to us, they had conducted the autopsy the previous day, Monday at the same 3pm that they said to us in their letter, despite that we told them to wait until we hear from the CP whom we had written to. They did not wait for us to receive the CP’s reply which later came the next day, Tuesday. “Subsequently, I was informed by the DPO of Yelwa Division on Tuesday that they conducted the autopsy on Monday and he served me a letter authorising me to take over the corpse and a warrant to bury it. This is our experience with the Police.” Asked what their next line of action will be, he said “to be honest with you, after all these things, I had a meeting with the family of the deceased, they have no other option than to challenge the breach of son’s fundamental human right to life and their refusal to allow us carryout an independent autopsy. “We are gathering our papers, documents and processes ready and within the shortest possible time, we are going to court to get justice.” When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, Bauchi State Command, Ahmed Wakil, simply said, “We served them a letter for the autopsy which had date and time. Wait till Saturday for the result of the autopsy.”