The Deputy Governor of Edo State, Philip Shaibu, speaks with ADEYINKA ADEDIPE on politics in the state, among other issues You are a former President of the National Association of Nigerian Students. Did activism lead you into politics? I would answer in the affirmative but I would say that politics was not on my agenda at that time. My involvement in NANS was borne out of my quest for a better Nigeria. I also hate oppression and I want the right things to be done at all times. From my Marxist perspective, I found out that the only way was to join the civil rights groups and make sure things were done correctly in Nigeria. We were seeking democracy and not the military dictatorship that we were having. For my level of knowledge, derived from books I have read and the organisations I belong to like the Civil Liberty Organisation, the only way was to join forces with other like-minded groups and fight to actualise democratic governance under which everyone has the freedom to choose their leaders. So for me, it was activism to student unionism that earned me the number one position in the student union movement in the country. I started my sojourn into NANS from the University of Jos where I was a member of the parliament representing Abuja Hostel Constituency. From there, I became the Welfare Secretary of the students union. While serving in this capacity, I was made the coordinator of the ‘Abacha Must Go’ movement of Zone C of NANS in a convention that was held at Katsina-Ala under late Moses Osakhede. That appointment brought me into prominence in student union politics. Zone C comprised schools in the Middle Belt, including the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, and I was saddled with the responsibility of coordinating and mobilising students and activists to say no to Abacha’s regime. My activities earned me a lot of beatings and torture. I was declared wanted by the military junta and when I was arrested I was kept in the same detention camp at the Department of State Services headquarters in Jos with the General Oladipo Diya group who was accused of plotting to topple the government of the late Major General Sani Abacha, his immediate boss. They tortured us in all ways one can imagine. While they (the alleged coup plotters) went to the tribunal, we were left behind to face the next round of torture and they were always asking who our sponsors were. They didn’t believe we had none and that we were sponsored by our conscience. After much protest by the CLO, led by the late Chief Gani Fawehinmi, we were released. The late chief was our permanent lawyer and was always there for us pro bono. Despite all these, I was not perturbed. Two days after my release, I organised another rally against the junta at the Jos Township Stadium. I was rearrested and I spent a week at the police station. I later joined the two million-man march against Abacha at Yaba in Lagos in response to Daniel Kanu’s one million-man march for Abacha in Abuja. Late Chief Fawehinmi, myself and many others were arrested and detained at Gashua prison in Yobe State. I was arrested a lot in those days. Unfortunately, the activists were not ready when democracy came. It took us by surprise and we did not participate in politics to bring about the kind of leadership we were looking for. The military apologists took over and, for us, it was another round of struggle in search of genuine democracy. We saw that period in our nascent democracy as a transition due to the calibre of people holding positions in government. However, something struck me from one of our visits to the Late Chief Bola Ige, who was a minister under former President Olusegun Obasanjo. The Late Ige said that if the comrades refused to take part in politics because it was perceived to be dirty, then the terrain would be filled with bad people. He added that when bad people take over politics, we should not expect anything better. So, he encouraged all of us to be part of politics so that we could clean the system. That encounter was a turning point for me and it encouraged me to join politics. My foray into politics was to change the system and contribute to a system that works. I believe that democracy helps to build structures and not individuals. So I came into politics with a mindset to join forces with others to change and strengthen the system as well as build a structure that can take care of those in government and the governed. No matter who you are, the institution should be built in a way that it can take care of you. That was what prompted me to go into politics. Your dressing is similar to the former APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, who was also a two-time governor of Edo State. Did you imbibe this from him? My putting on khaki most times was not because the former governor was doing the samething. Wearing khaki was out of my conviction to be an activist. I started putting on khaki from secondary school through to university. Even during one of my tribunal cases, when the issue of my certificate was in question, one of the representatives of my secondary school, Sardauna Memorial College, Kaduna gave testimony in the court of how I led students against the school authority which earned me a suspension. A teacher had injured one of the students while beating him and I felt that such treatment was wrong so I led a protest against the school. He attested to the fact that it was my activism that led to my suspension. My hatred for oppression led me into activism. Anytime I see anyone being oppressed, I take up the fight. I don’t do that out of hatred for anyone but out of my belief that I am fighting a just course. So my wearing of khaki is from my background in activism. In governance, I give it to Oshiomhole, he popularized the wearing of the khaki as a governor but my putting on khaki clothes is not to emulate him. Most people in activism like Fidel Castro, Che Guevara are noted for wearing khaki. In the run-up to the last election in the state, your camp was against that of Oshiomhole. Now that Obaseki has been re-elected, is your battle with Oshiomhole over? I never had a personal battle with Oshiomhole and I don’t intend to have one with him. We only had political differences and we both fought in opposing camps. We will all recall that Oshiomhole was oppressed when he was governor of Edo State and I was one of those who fought for him. I was injured and had a knee cap replacement due to the injury I sustained; I still have scars on my body as a result of those fights. All those fights were to ensure he survived the five impeachment moves against. In fact, the last one was very close. We fought to a level that we had to remove the roof of the state House of Assembly and relocate the parliament to the Government House using the rule which gave us power as the majority leader and the Speaker to move the parliament to the Government House. Nine of us perfected this move that saved him from being impeached. This is just my style – fighting against oppression. This time, I fought him in favour of Governor Godwin Obaseki, whom Oshiomhole was oppressing. As I said, I hate oppression and I would still have fought on Governor Obaseki’s side if I wasn’t his deputy. Moreso, this man that was being oppressed was doing what we agreed. We started a vision in 2006 and the document was drafted in the office of Obaseki in Lagos. When Oshiomhole became governor, he appointed Obaseki as the chairman of the economic team of the state so that he could help in the implementation of the ideas in the document which rested solely on rescuing the state from infrastructural decay and repositioning it (the state) as well as the mindset of the people to good governance. After Oshiomhole finished his tenure, Obaseki took over and as his deputy, I could see that he was following the plan and taking it to a higher level which means that our agreement and vision are still intact but taken to a digital level. So if the man is doing well, I see no reason why he should be oppressed and removed from power. So I joined the fight and made it clear that I was for Governor Obaseki. I have no regrets about making that decision. If it happens again, I will take the same decision because Edo State is in the news for the right reasons. We are building infrastructure and we are now talking about policies and ways to institutionalise them so that things can work well. We are no longer concentrating on just building individuals but we are now strengthening our institutions that will help everyone. Right now, I sleep peacefully because I know that I did the right thing. So, I thank God for giving me the wisdom to fight on the right side. Politically, for now, we are in different camps but I don’t have any personal problem with him. During the battle, did you at any time make Oshiomhole see reasons why he should support your group? I did that many times. We had conversations about how well Governor Obaseki was doing and the need to join hands instead of being in opposing camps. I remember we fixed meetings to resolve the issue and he did not show up. There was a meeting I had to rush down to while I was on vacation abroad. I was shocked to hear him take a contrary position to the one we took in the meeting. That for me was very disturbing. So it meant that my 17 hours flight to the country was a waste. I also knew that he had made up his mind on what to do and that we needed to take our destiny into our own hands. However, some of the things he said at that time were things he was not known for. The comrade I know will not call anyone a mosquito, lizard or pig like he called Salihu Lukman, the Director of the Progressive Governors Forum. He is not vulgar and I was shocked by this turnaround and I can’t say what led to it. The fight is not personal, it is based on principle and he knows that I am a loyal person. At what point did you feel it was the right time to join the PDP during the fight? I think God just led us throughout the tribulation. I won’t tell you that we had plans to leave the APC. All we knew was that we were going to contest and win the election but we didn’t know on which platform. Also, when the issue of the certificate came up, we knew that something fishy was going on. We were still hopeful because all the APC governors and most exco members of the party at the national level were with us. But he decided to disqualify us and fortunately for us we had options at that time and God led us to PDP with the support of our members. What gave you the edge in the election despite the federal might? What gave us the edge was God. I will continue to mention God because of all the plans we had just worked out for us. Our people were tired of all the troubles before the election and they were resolute in their belief that we deserved a second term. So, no matter what anybody was doing, our supporters were ready. They brought money, shared phones and clothes for votes. But people collected and voted their conscience and we won. That is why I said God did it for us. It was the grace of God all the way. You seem to get along well with Obaseki. What is that interest that binds you together? It is the vision to make things work, make a difference and rescue Edo from the hands of a few and return the state to the people as well as strengthen institutions, that is what is binding us together. We are making changes and ensuring that the state’s natural resources are turned into wealth. We are also looking at making our programmes impact the next generation and ensuring that our policy is sustainable. Interestingly, we discuss 99 per cent of policies and one per cent of politics. The “career” politicians grumble because things have changed in Government House. When you come to Government House, you must be ready to discuss ideas. So as a politician when you come to Government House, you must be ready to discuss how a policy will impact your people at the grassroots not how the chairman and secretary are sharing money. With this, no one would have time to talk about negative things. Given the prevailing situation in the country, how has your government been able to deliver election promises? Luckily, we have a governor who is a finance guru. He knows all about raising funds for projects and infrastructure. People were shocked that during the pandemic and lockdown we were able to pay salaries, and pay for projects. We have a PSS (Pay Small Small) system which enables us to earmark some money for projects and also has some funds for exigencies. We have other financial arrangements, using the governor’s experience, to make sure that we can fund our project at all times without owing contractors. For us, money is not a problem. The issue is how to get our people to have a change of mindset, know that the era of idleness is gone and that they work for their wages and if we are all able to imbibe this, Edo State’s economy will rise. Obaseki was attacked by the Federal Government and the APC over claims that the CBN printed money to share to the state to make up for the shortfall in revenue a couple of months ago. What do you make of the exchanges that followed? The CBN governor said that they printed money and that it is their business to print money. So if he said it is their business to print money, it means Governor Obaseki was right. What caused the uproar was the way they took it. I think it is better to deal with the message and not the messenger. The message should be looked at and not the messenger. That’s the only way we can grow. What is your advice to the Federal Government on how to solve the problem of insecurity in the country? I think the only way is to domesticate or localize security by approving state police, which will bring about 75 per cent solution to the problem. You won a gold medal in football at the National Sports Festival hosted in Edo. How are you able to engage in sporting activities despite the demand of your office? I won the gold by playing with the team at the NSF and it was not awarded. I made an assist and almost grabbed a goal in one of the games so my performance wasn’t a fluke. I am not showing off, I am a sportsperson. I was active in the Ministry of Works and that of Foreign Affairs as well as the Abuja FA. They will tell you about my exploits. I also represented FCT, Abuja in the Dallas Under 17 Cup in those days. I also represented the University of Jos in the Nigeria University Games and I was the captain of the Faculty of Social Science for three years. I can combine all these with my official schedule because I like exercising my body and because of this, I can join Insurance FC in training at any time. As a busy person, how do you create time for the family? I find it difficult to create time because the job continues even while you are at home. Most times, my young daughter is already sleeping by the time I get home. She even joins me in some of the meetings I do at home if she is awake, playing with me just to have a feel of her dad. Family suffers because of the inability to give them full attention and that is where my wife comes in. I salute her because she is able to fill a lot of gaps my absence creates. That is why each time I am on vacation, I sign off from governance completely and concentrate on the family. How did your wife feel when you ventured into politics and how does your family feel at this time? Interestingly, my wife is also an activist so I am not surprised that she understands the way I work in the political arena. She was the vice president of Auchi Polytechnic Students Union and she represented her school in the election that brought me in as NANS President at the Bauchi convention. She voted for me. Seven months later and two months to our final exams, I realised that she was going to be my wife and when I asked, she asked, is that how they ‘toast’ in your area? A year after graduation, we got married. She is more active than me politically. She is the real politician, she organises the youths and the women. Sometimes my people threaten to sponsor my wife against me if I do not do well and I have had to beg them not to for fear of being defeated. However, accepting to be a running mate to the then governorship candidate, Obaseki brought strife to the family. We were not sure of what would happen so she and the kids advised that we stay in Abuja where I was already a member of the House of Representatives. My second son told me he didn’t want to go back to Benin because they were always fighting and shooting. The experience they had during the fight to keep Oshiomhole in power was still fresh in their memory. I had to throw them out over the fence when thugs came to assassinate us at the Legislative Quarters. So when I told them we were going back to Edo, they were against it. That was the only time we had a disagreement but I still had my way by convincing them it was the right move and today we are fine. Where do you see yourself in the future; as the governor of the state or a return to the parliament? In my political calculation, I never thought I could emerge as the deputy to Governor Obaseki. I thought my call was to serve the people as a parliamentarian until the offer to become the deputy governor came, which altered my thought of which offices I wanted to contest as a politician. Since that alteration, I have left my destiny in God’s hands. Everything I want doesn’t seem to be where God is taking me. It was only the first time when I wanted to contest for the House of Assembly that I built a structure and I lost the election. When I was eventually elected, I was not interested in running but I was brought in late despite that I won a seat in the House. After that, I wanted to go for the House of Representatives but I was asked to return to the House of Assembly. I was planning a third term in the House so I could possibly become the speaker but I was persuaded to contest for the House of Representatives and I won. So they brought me back to become deputy governor. I didn’t bother to contest it. At a time I asked myself if I was a zombie who didn’t have a say in his affairs because what I want is not what the people want for me. I listen to them because they are the ones that will vote. So if you ask me about my next political move, I will say we should leave it to God. There is a sharp increase in the price of goods and services. What is the state government doing to cushion the effect on the masses? What we are doing is creating an enabling environment for businesses to strive and provide the resources through soft loans which are mostly interest-free for farmers so that they can provide for the local market and take to some other states. We also encourage entrepreneurs by helping them source funds to help their businesses grow. The Covid-19 pandemic and the activities of killer herdsmen have had a negative impact on food production. What has become of the resolution of the South-South governors to ban open grazing considering that the Federal Government through the Ministry of Agriculture is bent on reviving grazing routes? The decision to ban open grazing in the Southern part of the country stands. The governors consulted their people and deliberated well before coming up with the decision which is expected to enhance security in the South and once the decision has been made, there is no going back. I will call on the Federal Government to see the wisdom in the decision which will help reduce the fight between farmers and herders and prevent unnecessary killings. I think the southern governors have taken a decision and the implementation of that decision is ongoing. It is not everything that has to do with security that you can speak publicly about, but there is a synergy among the southern governors and the implementation of the ban on open grazing. When the implementation begins, I am sure the Federal Government will not have any choice other than to listen to the governors and jettison the idea of reviving grazing routes for herdsmen. What is the present situation on the leadership tussle in the state PDP? Like I told you, we are focusing on the dividends of democracy and election promises. Internal strife in political parties is normal in this clime and you cannot erase it. It happens in all politics parties. One thing I know is that there is surely light at the end of the tunnel. I have never been shaken when it comes to party politics. I have seen it all and I can assure you that all will be calm. If the PDP organises itself well, 2023 is for us to win. Nigerians are tired; the change they are waiting for has not come. It is time to change the change. What legacy will this government leave behind when its tenure is over? We want to leave the legacy of progressive governance, a new orientation of service that will not put the development of Edo in reverse. A legacy that power is not might and that the people matter. We also want to be known for growing the economy which brings about wealth and a state we can all be proud of. We also want to ensure poverty becomes a thing of the past. For me, it will be a case of we came, we saw and we conquered. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com