Over 100 projects have been put up by ministries, departments and agencies of the Federal Government for public-private partnerships. It was gathered that the projects cut across various sectors of the economy including power, agriculture, oil and gas, water resources, housing, transport, as well as information and communication technology. It was also learnt that the projects had been presented to the Bureau of Public Enterprises, and the agency had commenced the screening of the projects for suitability. A document on investment opportunities in Nigeria’s privatisation and economic reform programme obtained by our correspondent from the BPE on Friday showed that some of the projects were for concession, while others were for outright sale. “We received over 100 potential projects (ICT/communications, power, agric, oil and gas, water resources, housing and transport) from MDAs. In process of screening them for PPP suitability,” the BPE said in the document. Some of the projects, as captured under the enterprises section of the document, include five Nigeria Integrated Power Plants under the management of the Niger Delta Power Holding Company. They are the Calabar, Geregu, Omotosho, Olorunsogo and Benin (Ihovbor) power plants. The NIPPs are jointly owned by the Federal Government (47 per cent), states and Local Governments (53 per cent). Efforts in 2013 to divest 80 per cent of the government shareholding from the 10 NIPPs was cancelled due to the preferred bidders’ attempt to change the rule in the middle of the bidding process, according to the BPE. The bureau, however, noted that approvals to divest 100 per cent government shareholding from five of the NIPPs had been granted, and timeline of completion was scheduled for December 2021. According to the document, the BPE is currently at the stage of Expressions of Interest for the five NIPP projects. Other projects under the enterprises section as captured in the document include the Transmission Company of Nigeria, which is up for concession; Zungeru Hydropower plant, also for concession; and Nigerian Postal Services. Others include Abuja Environmental Protection Board, Nigeria Film Corporation, River Basin Development Authority, and the Bank of Industry. The Director-General, BPE, Alex Okoh, explained that it had become vital to concession, privatise or engage in PPPs to manage government assets as some of these facilities had been poorly run over the years. “The intended value creation in establishing government enterprises has become in many instances, obfuscated by government interference in management and operations, and thus result in poor or suboptimal performances,” he said. Okoh said the fiscal space was getting increasingly constrained, making it tough for the government to meet its obligations in providing infrastructure, adding that the most feasible option was to attract private sector investments. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com