How would you describe your work? Currently, my work is at the intersection of media, policy and advocacy. Most of what I’ve done in the past decade has been situated in the Niger Delta where I am from. I say this because my work and interests are dynamic. They seem to change from time to time. Which schools did you attend? I first enrolled at the Rivers State College of Arts and Science to study for a Diploma in Electrical and Electronics Engineering between 2010 and 2012. After that, I went to the Alpha Institute of Broadcasting and Communication for a four-month course in Basic Broadcast Presentation in 2014. After AIBC, I went on to study Journalism at the International Institute of Journalism, Abuja, from 2014 to 2016. That was the end of my physical schooling, and I focused on work full-time at that point. Since 2010, I had started working as a freelance writer. In 2019 I started my virtual learning journey when I joined the maiden Harvard Executive Education Public Narrative class. Because I could not afford the $2,200 tuition, Harvard gave me a 91 per cent scholarship, and that is how the journey began. After Harvard, I decided to do something new through a movement I tagged #LearnwithEben. I applied to study Business Administration at Nexford University, United States of America (which I am billed to complete in 2022). I have concluded a Diploma in Journalism at the London School of Journalism, while also completing a MicroMasters credential in Data, Economics and Development Policy offered by MIT and JPAL, and Executive programmes at the Stanford Center for Professional Development and Wayne State University (as part of the 2021 Mandela Washington Fellowship). I am completing all these programs online, simultaneously in addition to my work and personal commitments. Through this education expedition, I’m hoping to showcase that it is possible to integrate our education with our lives via virtual learning. I am also trying to make up for the lost time so that I can grow in my career. You reportedly started your blog with a phone. How would you describe the experience? I actually co-founded the blog with my friend, Mary Ajayi, at the time because I was passionate about the International Observances (a date usually set by a major organisation or government to commemorate a public health or ethical cause of importance on a national or international level) and wanted other people to learn about them too. About the phone, I had a Nokia Xpress Music phone with which I checked emails and browsed Google. I could manage the blog and social media activities, and I was also able to launch an interview series called ‘The Stroll’, where I interviewed over 120 world leaders and experts from more than 30 countries. How impactful was the blog and what opportunities did it present for you? It was very impactful. Over 460,000 people reached out to me with information about the International Observances and it provided me with the chance to also broaden my network and meet so many high-profile people. You seem to have footprints around the globe. What organisations are you part of? Due to my volunteer and consultancy activities, I have had the privilege of building affiliations with several organisations around the world. Some include the World Economic Forum where I am a member of their expert network and one of the founding members and curators of the Global Shapers Hub in Port Harcourt. With TED, I served as a volunteer for the first-ever TEDx event in the Niger Delta in 2013 and I went on to organise a TEDxYouth event in 2014 as an organiser and primary licensee. I still host TED Circles for smaller groups as well as mentor young TEDxUniversity organisers. With the British Council, I represent West Africa on the New Narratives Youth Advisory Board and I’m also an alumnus of the Future News Worldwide, organised by British Council Scotland. Also, I served as the youngest member of the International Jury of the Association for International Broadcasting Awards, the biggest awards for broadcasting in the World. I am also a Judge of the Queen’s Commonwealth Essay Competition, the world’s oldest international writing competition for schools administered by the Royal Commonwealth Society. I am a member of the Open Government Youth Collective, member of the G2O Civil Society Working Group on Education and Global Citizenship, and a pioneer ambassador of the United States Agency for International Development’s YouthLead platform for young changemakers around the world. What is Policy Shapers about? Policy Shapers is a youth-led open-source platform for policy ideas that address the world’s most pressing challenges. The platform features policy ideas worth implementing. We strongly believe that young people are the missing stakeholder group on the policy table despite the fact that their lives and future are most affected by policy outcomes. Through Policy Shapers, we hope to inspire the next generation of policymakers and provide them with a platform to share their ideas and collaborate for change. The policy ideas shared on the platform are accessible publicly for anyone to learn from and this is in line with core open source principles of open exchange, collaborative participation, transparency, meritocracy and community-oriented development. What challenges have you faced as a young person trying to make an impact? Being from the Niger Delta, the narrative is that most young people from the region are lazy, uncouth and entitled. Without even saying a word at certain fora, people have judged or profiled one. My track record has always been my loudest statement though and I have always made sure that I allow my work to do the talking. Also, the lack of funds to carry out certain projects and initiatives can feel crippling at times and we live in a society that generally treats youth badly. What challenges have you faced in the course of your education and work and how were you able to overcome them? Time is my biggest challenge because I am multitasking every day on several activities at the same time. I manage this by keeping to a strict to-do list and sacrificing the time I spend on social activities. In case you’re wondering if I have any fun. Of course, I’m still in my twenties, so I try to have some fun with my wife, so that I don’t end up living a boring life. Other challenges include poor Internet connection and poor electricity supply. We augment these by using generators and using more than two sim cards. There are some nights I struggle to keep up with classes and at the same time, I also have some work from the day waiting to be done. What projects are you currently working on? Quite a number of things, but most importantly, Policy Shapers. Sometimes, one never knows how far these things can go. We’re keeping at it slowly and let’s see what it grows to become. At work, the advocacy team is working to attract investors to the Niger Delta region and we’re also carrying out a study on the impact of multiple taxations and illegal levies on small businesses in the region, using Rivers and Abia states as case studies. I am also the President of the Youth Fellowship of Newlife Baptist Church, Port Harcourt. Aside from fellowship activities, we are also planning to hold our convention in October 2021. What message do you have for young people in Nigeria and across Africa? Although the challenges are enormous, including unemployment and insecurity, which particularly threaten the lives of young people, I believe this is actually the best time to be a young person. More than ever before, we are living in an age of abundant opportunities— scholarship, grants, fellowships and networking opportunities. Don’t just sit by complaining. Apply for something. Build a skill. Take your destiny into your hands and build something for yourself because you really do not need anyone’s permission to succeed. What recognition have you got for your activities? I won the first-ever Soundcity MVP Award for Community Development. I am a fellow of the Mandela Washington Fellowship and the Global Investigative Journalism Network fellowship. I also got recognition from Future News Worldwide and was named in the inaugural list of 100 Most Influential Young Nigerians. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com