Some leaders of the All Progressives Congress in Arigbajo Ward, Ewekoro Local Government Area of Ogun State have protested the alleged imposition of a candidate on the ward. The party ward leaders appealed to Governor Dapo Abiodun and other chieftains of the party to wade into the crisis as a result of the alleged imposition of a candidate on them. Their grievances were contained in a petition titled ‘Complaint against acts of imposition of councillorship candidate and conduct likely to cause crisis In APC, Arigbajo Ward,’ addressed to the state APC Chairman, Yemi Sanusi, and other leaders in the state by their solicitor, Lekan Ojo and Associates. The ward leaders of the party said the announcement of one Mr. Anisere as the councillorship candidate of the ward, contrary to the majority candidate, Mr. Stephen Eleyowo, could spark a crisis if not immediately addressed. According to them, during a meeting held at the party secretariat in Arigbajo on May 17, the ward party leaders nominated Eleyowo as a councillorship candidate for Arigbajo to the dissatisfaction of a party leader, Bamidele Obadina, who nominated Anisere. The petition read, “We are also briefed that upon the dissatisfaction of Obadina and his consequent moves to overturn the nomination, the leadership of the party at the council intervened and directed that an election be conducted to determine the candidate. Reacting to the complaint, the state APC Publicity Secretary of the caretaker committee, Tunde Oladunjoye, said the party had begun moves to resolve all the matters. Oladunjoye said every member would be involved in the administration of the government at the local government level. He said, “I want to let you know that only one person can occupy an elective office at a time. There will be complaints. That’s part of party politics. I can assure you the party is addressing all concerns.” “There is a strict directive from the governor for inclusiveness at the local government and ward levels as being demonstrated by His Excellency at the state level. Over time, we should most hopefully put the complaints behind us before the local government, the elections in which we are so sure of victory. “The achievements of the governor within a record two years, with completed and ongoing projects equitably located in all senatorial districts of the state, are veritable tools for our electioneering and success at the polls.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com