What is your name and what do you do for a living? My name is Hassan Ramon. I am an Islamic cleric and I am a farmer as well. I am from Igboora and I am 39 years old. You were one of the vigilantes that arrested Iskilu Wakili in March. What prompted the move? The people of Ibarapa are predominantly farmers and that is what most of them do. The insecurity caused mainly by herdsmen became worse at that time to a level that farmers could no longer go to their farms. The hoodlums whose livestock we allowed to graze on our land constituted themselves into terror and practically chased us away from our farms. There was a time I went to see my mum and I was told she had gone to the farm. At times, when farmers go like that, they would stay a week or some days in their farmsteads before returning to town. But as I was there on that day, my mum came back having gone some hours before. So, I asked her why and she told me some criminal herdsmen attacked some persons and injured them on the farm so she ran back home for safety. That one was just one out of very many cases of attack, rape, kidnap and killings that happen frequently there. Was that before Sunday Igboho went to Igangan to give Seriki Abdukadir Salihu quit notice? That was before he went there and the situation even became worse after, especially in villages like Konko, Aba Pupa, and many others.  Farmers could no longer go to the farm and there was hunger everywhere. It was in the news then that Iskilu Wakili brought his kinsmen to a place after Ayete and they stopped people from going to their farms completely. It was during cashew harvest and the Fulani were the ones harvesting and selling our cashew nuts while they gave the fruits to their animals. They plundered everything our people had laboured for and people became angry. The police came but could not restore peace. The man (Wakili) was still there preventing our people from going to their farms. The governor brought in Amotekun but they could not go to where he was. So, at what point did your team move in to arrest him? When we discovered that help was not going to come from outside and our people needed to return to their farms so they would not die of hunger, we decided to go and see if we would be able to arrest him. On a market day, we went to the area, and immediately after we left Oja Alagbaa, Wakili’s men started shooting at us but God helped us; we were not wounded. They saw that we were not affected by the shots, they then ran into his settlement and we ran after them. We just wanted to catch some of them even if it was just one person. They abandoned one of the motorcycles they rode and fled into the bush while some of them ran into the settlement. Where was Wakili as of that time? The two of them that ran into the settlement were arrested. Wakili was also in the settlement. He heard the gunshots fired at us and he was happy; he believed his boys had succeeded in gunning us down but when he saw they were running into the settlement and some were running away into the bush, he knew it was not funny any longer. What did he do? He also stood up and ran towards his spiritual fortress, but we caught him before he could get there. Others had fled the place and we took Wakili and two of his boys to the place where we parked our motorcycles and took him to the police station at Igboora. But he appeared sick in the video that was released that day. Did you assault him? We did not beat him. We did not rough-handle him. We just took him to the police station. Why didn’t you take him to the police station at Ayete when he was arrested on Ayete land? We arrested him on the part that falls under Idere. So we took him to Igboora Police Station. We wondered how they opened fire on us immediately after we got to the place after Oja Alagba but one of his boys who was arrested with him told us one Yemi in Idere called to inform them we were coming. That was why they were fully ready for us. But God spared us. The boy, (Yemi,) also called the divisional police officer at Ayete, when we were taking them to Igboora. I think the DPO asked Operation Burst (a joint security patrol) to meet us on the way but we took another route and that was how we took them to the police station at Igboora. We dropped them at the police station and the police took Wakili to hospital to check whether he was truly sick but they were told nothing was wrong with him. The DPO at Ayete called the Commissioner of Police; so, the CP called the DPO at Igboora and ordered him to bring Wakili and those of us who captured him to Ibadan. That was how we were taken to Iyaganku (the State Criminal Investigation Department). We had known all along that anytime indigenes had any problem with the Fulani, the police would say our people were at fault. That had been a problem for a long time. You were detained by the police based on the allegation of murder and arson. Is that true? We did not burn anything and we did not kill anybody. Up until  now, we were not shown the corpse of the person they claimed we killed. They said they would go there to investigate after they released us from police custody but they did not go there. Though they went to Ayete, but they never went to the place where we captured Wakili. Our people were angry because of this and other reactions of the police. But there was a photo showing a burnt place which they claimed was his settlement? The place was not burnt when we took Wakili and his boys away. Maybe those who escaped returned and set the place on fire to implicate us, but we did not do anything like that. We knew we had to be very careful and that was why we did not torture any of them. We just handed them over to the police and that was all. How many days did you spend at Iyaganku before you were released on bail? We spent three days there. We were sick because the stress was too much. We arrested him on a Sunday and we were detained on that same day. We were released three days later. After that, we were asked to come back and we went back because we knew we did not commit any crime. We were taken to court after that and the court ordered that we should be remanded in the prison in Oyo. We were moved from the prison in Oyo to the one in Agodi, Ibadan, on March 31. What was your experience in prison? We went there to learn more about life. Some things we never considered to be anything became clear to us there. We knew how people could twist a case to implicate an innocent person. It was another learning period. The way we were roped in became clearer to us and it was there we learnt that next time, as we carry out such an operation, we should get a video recording of it to serve as evidence. Were you maltreated in the prison? We were not beaten at Agodi prison, but in Oyo prison, the officer in charge also instructed the inmates not to beat or maltreat us in any way. But the following morning after our arrival we were beaten. We were kept together with some thieves and robbers. They (other inmates) said OPC members were the ones troubling them, so they dealt with us but we just took it as one of those things. We later told the officer and he was very angry; even the warders were also angry that we were beaten. But they did not do anything to us after that. They later said we should be relocated to another part of the prison but I told them to leave us there. The inmates stopped beating us after that but even if we were taken to another place, we were not sure those new ones would also not beat us. We became friends with them later but they welcomed us by beating us. Were you not discouraged when you were going through this? We were not discouraged in any way. We knew we were not robbers, we did not commit any crime. Even if there is such an operation again today, we are ready to be part of it or even lead it. But we need the support of the government, traditional rulers, and influential people so we won’t go through this experience again while fighting to liberate our land from invaders. Igangan was attacked recently and many residents were killed. How did you feel when you heard that? We heard the news while in prison and we were very sad. We were in prison custody and we could not go out. My eyes were filled with tears that day. I remembered my wife, my children and members of my extended family were in Ibarapa. But how long are we going to continue to suffer against these people (herdsmen)? I even told my colleagues I would be happy if they could just give me the opportunity to go and see my people that day and return to the prison. But there was no such luxury. What do you think is the solution to insecurity in your area? The only solution I think we have is to tell these people (herdsmen) to leave our land. They are wicked and I don’t think they can change. Our people are very accommodating and that was our mistake. We accommodated them – allowed them to live – but they are bent on sending us away from our land. If our fathers had been hostile to them when they came, I don’t think we would be experiencing this problem. But, is it a bad thing to be good to strangers? Food is scarce not only because of drought but because of the level of insecurity everywhere. The government should be serious and sincere in ending this problem. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com