Family of an official with the Lagos Neighbourhood Safety Corps, Taiye Bankole, is suspecting foul play in his demise at work, JANET OGUNDEPO reports His phone kept ringing. Friends and family took turns to send him birthday wishes. The text messages came from morning till daybreak on May 4. It was his 43rd birthday after all.  But unknown to him, it would be the last birthday wishes he would receive from friends and family members. Taiye Bankole, an official of the Lagos Neighbourhood Safety Corps, was said to have slumped within the LNSC premises at the Ojodu Local Council Development Area, Oke Ira, Ogba powerline around 11pm that day. But according to findings, his corpse was discovered around 6am the next day. The late Taiye was said to have been on duty that day with colleagues identified as Peace and Tope. Family kicks over death In a chat with Sunday PUNCH, the late Taiye’s fiancée, Oluwaseun Amoo, said Taiye was on duty on May 4. She said, “The last time I spoke with Taiye was on May 4, his birthday. I had called him earlier in the day to wish him a happy birthday. I had a feeling that something was not right so I kept calling him all through the day. I spoke with him around 5pm before I went to church. ‘‘Before that time, Taiye had asked me to call his sister to help him bring his credentials because he needed them in the office. Later when I called to ask if he had got the documents, he said he already had them. ‘‘I also spoke on the phone with a lady, Peace, who is Taiye’s partner who was with him. “After that time, I called Taiye and he didn’t answer his call so I called Peace’s line and told her that Taiye didn’t answer my calls. She said she would tell him to answer his calls and that maybe he was busy then. He later answered my call and we spoke. By the time I left church, I discovered that I had missed his calls about five times. I returned his calls but he didn’t answer so I called Peace and she said everything was fine. I called back but the network was bad so I ended the call and redialed but the call wasn’t answered. “I kept calling till morning. It was around 7am that someone from their office answered and asked who I was to Taiye and if I had the contact details of someone in Lagos who they could contact because he was in a critical condition. I wasn’t told he was dead then. I called his sister and explained the situation to her. I then called Taiye’s phone back and I was told to give them my phone number so I could be contacted on another number to get the details of the situation. I later got a call that he was dead. I got some of the pictures that were taken and I discovered that his mouth was opened.” Sunday PUNCH gathered that a copy of the picture taken by the deceased’s colleagues, showing him on the ground was later seen by the late Taiye’s uncle, Mr Samuel Bankole, who sent it to Taiye’s younger brother, Idowu. Our correspondent gathered that it was Idowu who called the attention of Samuel to the fact that Taiye was dressed in uniform but was without shoes. Samuel said “I saw the picture where he slumped and I asked the person who showed me to make a copy for me. When I sent the picture to Idowu, he called my attention to the fact that Taiye was not wearing shoes yet he was in uniform. “When the incident happened, the younger brother called me to inform me of what happened. I went to their office and I introduced myself as one of the family members and I was taken to their boss’ office. They said the number of the person documented as the next of kin was unreachable. They then called the number of his fiancée from Taiye’s phone. She introduced herself and asked that they allow her to speak with him. She was told that she couldn’t speak with him because he was in a critical condition. She wondered why he would be in a critical condition since they still communicated over the phone till 9pm because the day before was his birthday and his younger brother spoke with him around 8pm. “She was later told that if she knew a family member she should give them the person’s contact information that the situation was between life and death. “She then called Taiye’s elder sister that lives at Sango to tell her what she was told. The sister then called Idowu and Idowu called me. I went to their office in the morning on May 5. I was taken to meet their boss in the office where I introduced myself. They condoled with me and I was told that he slumped. Two men were told to take me to the spot where he slumped. I looked at the place and I saw a little drop of blood at the spot but I didn’t see his body at the place so I asked where his body was and who confirmed him dead. I questioned them on why they removed him from the spot where he slumped without allowing his family to see him at the spot and why they didn’t take him to the hospital when they found him. It wasn’t even at a hospital that he was confirmed dead. Then they said their boss was informed about it and that was why they took the picture of him at the spot where he slumped. I was already disorganised by then. They took me to the ambulance where his body was wrapped in a body bag. I asked them to let me identify him and I saw traces of blood from his ears and cheeks.’’ Also, speaking with our correspondent, Idowu said some things didn’t add up regarding the story they were told about how his brother died. He said, “I asked the person who picked the call how he fell, how they knew he fell when they saw him and what exactly was going on. I was told that they found him around 11 pm somewhere in the building. At that point, I was questioning the whole details but because I was not there my questions were limited. They said he fell around 11pm and they needed a family member to know what to do next because he was placed in an ambulance. Everything was in a hurry. They hurried everybody. I had to call my brother-in-law to tell them what happened and they went there. “Everything was in a rush. They rushed us to decide on what to do. My uncle said the two options they gave him were either burying him or taking the corpse to the mortuary. I was not okay with burying him. I wanted to embalm him for a while but I went ahead with the decision to bury him but I knew some things were not adding up. “From the information I got from the pictures sent to me of where he supposedly fell, I began to question some things. They told everyone that they saw him around 11pm but they waited till morning before they took the pictures. One can tell from the pictures that they weren’t taken at night. How can you see your co-worker fall somewhere at night with no first aid administered and no doctor called and you left him there till 7am to take pictures of him? The whole thing didn’t add up.” Samuel also told our correspondent that the family suspected foul play and wrote a petition to the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, Nigerian Police Force. Alagbon Annex, Lagos and included the names of his colleagues with him that day as suspects. He said, “He was buried on May 5, 2021 on a plot suggested by the LNSC. They also contributed some amount of money to the family. No autopsy was conducted because it was not right for me as the father figure to keep his corpse.’’ Previous events before Taiye’s death Amoo said that Taiye was recently transferred to the LNSC office at Ojodu LCDA after he reported a superior allegedly caught stealing. “When I went to visit him at Ijoko, Ogun State, sometime in March, he claimed that he was afraid and didn’t want to be alone. I told him that nothing bad would happen to him,’’ she said. Idowu also said the narration was confusing. He stated, “The fiancee said she called for hours and no one answered the call till morning, why? Why was he not rushed to a hospital and why no doctor or police officer called. “Taiye was dressed in uniform but had no shoes on, so why would he go outside in the dark to a place that is rough without wearing shoes? The fiancee also told me that Taiye was with one of his female co-workers, Peace and that they were together and Taiye was filling a form or application online. She said Peace was with Taiye and he took her out to eat and when she kept calling Taiye, Peace answered the call and told her Taiye was busy. When Peace was contacted by our correspondent, she declined comment on the matter, directing Sunday PUNCH to talk to her superiors. She said, “I am not in a position to answer any question. If you want to get any information go to our head office at Bolade, Oshodi. My bosses are there and at least they are handling the matter. You can go there and ask them. That’s all I can tell you.” Efforts made to speak with Tope about the matter were futile. The petition, dated May 17, 2021, read in part, “On May 5, 2021, at about 07:10 am, as I was driving from Ikorodu to Allen Avenue Ikeja, I received a call from my younger brother named Idowu Anthony Bankole from the United States of America who informed me that his brother named Taiwo Bankole is dead. I became devastated after the call. I decided to check him at his office to obtain firsthand information as to what happened to him…” Samuel said though a reminder was sent to the LNSC office, they had yet to respond to it. Meanwhile, some security experts have analysed the pictures showing the deceased on the floor where he was said to have slumped and died. A security expert, Mr Patrick Agbamu, urged the police to ensure a thorough investigation into the matter. He noted that from the pictures, Taiye might have slumped but his loosened belt indicated that he might have slackened it before he slumped or someone might have done that. Agbamu stated, “A critical observation of his body on the floor shows that he may have actually slumped and hit his head on the concrete floor or a block. But his belt is loose. It is either that he did that before he slumped or someone did it. There is a need for a thorough investigation and interrogation of his colleagues. The green rope beside his body could be useful during investigation.” On his part, another security expert, Mr Oladele Fajana, said the pictures revealed that he might have slumped but an autopsy report would also help this case. “I observed the pictures and I cannot say precisely that he was attacked because his clothes were not dirty. I think he slumped. But an autopsy report would help the case,” he stated. Also, a security analyst, Mr Gbenga Adelani, noted that an autopsy could still be done after exhumation of the corpse to ascertain the true cause of his death and questions should be asked about where he slumped. Adelani said, “There is an 80 per cent chance that he slumped. But what was he doing in that place where he was spotted? If one can get an answer to what he was doing in that place then one can now know whether he slumped on that spot or if he was attacked and dropped at that spot to evade suspicion.’’ When contacted, the Acting Director of Public Affairs Unit of the LNSC, Mr Olanrewaju Durojaiye, said he was unaware of the situation. He further told our correspondent to go to the corps’ office at Bolade regarding any enquiry. In his reaction, the Public Relations Officer, Force Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, Alagbon Annex, Lagos, Mr Niyi Ogundeyi, said that the petition from the family had been received and the case was undergoing investigation. He said, “The petition was submitted and police are investigating the case. It is worrisome that someone will die and be hurriedly buried without the police and doctors reports. “The police have written to Neighbourhood Watch and are investigating the matter. We will not leave any stone unturned.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com