The Delta State Police Command has nabbed eight suspected members of the Black Axe Confraternity, including an 18-year-old girl, Hope Agbogidi. A spokesman for the police in the state, Bright Edafe, revealed this in a statement on Sunday. He said, “We acted in line with the Commissioner of Police directives on cult activities, bearing in mind that 7th July of every year is the day singled out by Aiye confraternity cult to mark their day and also bring out their ugly faces, thereby causing mayhem in the society. “The CP, in his usual proactive ways, directed that all DPOs be on the lookout and ensure that all their nefarious activities are checkmated. “The DPO ‘A’ Division, Warri, led men of the Divisional Rapid Respond Squad on a visibility patrol. While on patrol, they intercepted and arrested one Oghenewaro Bebe of Ughoton area in the Okpe LGA in the full regalia of the Aiye Black Axe Confraternity. “The suspect confessed to be a member of the cult. He led the team to a bush bar at Jeddo, which is their meeting point. At the bush bar, one live silver like 7.63mm ammunition was recovered. “The suspect further led the police to Ughoton community, where one of the top leaders of the confraternity, Oritsetusem Fenemigho, 29, is residing. He was arrested along with the following members in the same apartment: Weyinmi Onomakponi (35), Emmanuel Edah, Osro Etiosa (23), Oshef  Benji, Confidence Sunday (18), Akintemeyin James, and 18-year-old Hope Agbogidi.” Edafe said items recovered in the apartment included two locally-made pistols, one axe, one long cutlass, five customised Aiye pillows, one customised centre table with Aiye logo, one AK-47 expended ammunition, a necklace used as body protection charm, two HP laptops, six Iphones, two suspected stolen Lexus car keys, among others. The police spokesman noted that a 17-year-old boy, Esealuka, was also arrested by the command with 68 sachets of dried weed, suspected to be Indian hemp, and 33 sachets of SK along Cable Point, Asaba, the state capital. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com