There was drama in the Second Gate area of Tincan Port, Apapa, Lagos State, as a task force involving policemen, soldiers and other security agents stormed the Anumorigba Market to dislodge the traders. The task force officials reportedly set ablaze tables, chairs and remainders of vandalized makeshift shops belonging to the traders. A source in the market said the operation was connected to the series of unrest occasioned by members of factional groups of Maritime Workers Union of Nigeria, who had been clashing in the area over money made from cargos operating outside the jurisdiction of the port. The source said, “The maritime union members have been engaging in gun battle since last Friday because of money. They also clashed on Saturday and in the early hours of Sunday. “Traders in the Anumorigba market have stopped operation because of the crisis at the Second Gate area of Tincan port. Today, the joint task force got to the market around 9am, chased away some of the traders that were around, gathered all the tables and chairs belonging to them and burnt everything. “The traders were not involved in the crisis but everything has been burnt in the market. Those involved in the operation were policemen from the Nigeria Port Authority; soldiers were also involved because it was a joint operation. “They did not speak to the market leader about the operation but because most traders had heard that the operation would happen, they started making their moves but some were unlucky as they burnt their properties during the operation.” It was gathered that sporadic shootings occurred when a shouting match ensued between some of the union members and the taskforce operatives due to the operation. The source added, “We even challenged them when we realized that our properties were being burnt. We spoke with some of the people who led the operation and they said they don’t have anything to discuss with us. But when some of the boys started challenging them, they started shooting to scare people away.” When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi, said he was going to find out about the operation and revert to our correspondent. He had yet to do so as of the time this report was filed.