A former Minister of Finance, Mrs. Kemi Adeosun, has said the ruling of the Federal High Court that she could serve without the certificate of the National Youth Service Corps has vindicated her. She said this in a statement issued by her legal team hours after the judgment on Wednesday. Justice Taiwo Taiwo, in the judgment, held that Adeosun was not qualified to have participated in the scheme when she graduated at 22 years because she was then a British citizen. Justice Taiwo further held that as at when she formally returned to Nigeria and became a Nigerian citizen at over 30 years, she was not eligible to present herself for the NYSC service. The judge said Adeosun or anyone did not require a discharge certificate of NYSC to qualify to contest election to the House of Representatives or be appointed a minister in Nigeria. The judge was, however, silence on the certificate forgery allegation against the former finance minister. The former finance minister, who was enmeshed in an allegation of NYSC certificate forgery, resigned her appointment in 2018. Adeosun, in an originating, summon with suit number: FHC/ABJ/CS/303/2021 filed on March 11 by her lawyer, Wole Olanipekun, SAN, listed the Attorney General of the Federation as the sole defendant. The former minister, who said she went through a “very traumatic spell”, noted that the court had further reiterated her stand on the matter. The statement read, “My lawyers have informed me of the judgment by the Federal High Court, Abuja, in the case of Folakemi Adeosun v The Attorney General of the Federation (FHC/ABJ/CS/303/2021) in which the court, presided over by Honourable Justice Taiwo Taiwo, ruled that the Constitution does not require me to present my first-degree certificate or any other certificate, including the NYSC certificate, to be appointed a Minister. “More importantly, he also ruled that I was not eligible to perform NYSC by virtue of the constitution. This is the position I have always maintained and am happy for this official clarification. “The ruling vindicates me after a very traumatic spell. It is, however, not only a personal victory; it’s also a victory for many Nigerians in the Diaspora under similar conditions who are desirous to serve their country. “I wish to thank God, my family, friends, my counsel, Chief Wole Olanipekun (SAN) and numerous well-wishers for their love, care and concern throughout this difficult period, which has lasted three whole years. “I wish to add in the light of the court’s ruling, I will at the appropriate time and without hesitation, take all further steps necessary within the law to protect my reputation. I thank you all.”