Coalition of Civil Society Organisations on Tuesday in Abuja expressed worries over clauses 50 and 88 in the Electoral Bill currently being amended at the National Assembly. Clause 50 (2) of the Bill states that: “Voting at an election under this Bill shall be in accordance with the procedure determined by the Commission (INEC), which may include electronic voting, PROVIDED that the Commission shall not transmit results of elections by electronic means.’’ Convener of the Nigeria Civil Society Situation Room of the coalition, Ene Obi, told a news conference that providing for electronic voting, but prohibiting electronic transmission of results was restrictive. “Anything short of electronic voting and electronic transmission of results will be unacceptable,’’ Obi said. She noted that accredited observers had, over the years, identified the collation process as the weak link in Nigeria’s elections. She said the process, often shrouded in human interference and other unforeseen occurrences, sometimes result in lack of transparency, efficiency and accountability, capable of undermining the credibility of the entire process. “This is a challenge that can be tackled by electronic transmission of results, if implemented properly,’’ she stressed. Obi observed also that INEC and civil society had, for long, clamored for improvement to the electoral process, particularly, the use of technology in elections to improve efficiency and transparency. “It was expected that in addition to providing requisite legal backing to the use of the Smart Card Reader, which was introduced in 2015, the re-enactment of the Electoral Act would provide the legal framework for INEC to deepen the use of technology in elections. “The Commission, on its part, has been working to introduce new technologies into elections and has welcomed demonstrations of relevant technological devices from developers to that end,’’ she said. Obi said that the proposed provision of Clause 50 (2) would only undermine INEC’s power and discretion to make any far-reaching progress in the use of technology in elections. She stressed that passing the Electoral Bill 2021 into law without addressing the salient issue of the use of technology would largely undermine gains so far recorded in Nigeria’s electoral process. She added that the National Assembly should reflect on Clause 50(2) in the version of the draft bill agreed to by the joint Senate and House of Representatives Committees on INEC and Electoral Matters. The version states that, “Voting at an election and transmission of result under this Bill shall be in accordance with the procedure determined by the Commission (INEC).” In his remarks, co-convener of the Nigeria Civil Society Situation Room, Mr. James Ugochukwu, urged the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd) not to assent to the Bill until the clauses must have been corrected. Ugochukwu also expressed confidence that the National Assembly leadership is too professional to pass the Bill without addressing the observations made. He called on constituents to prevail on their lawmakers not to be part of the approval of the Bill without addressing observations maded, adding, “It does not mean well for the masses in its present state. ” NAN reports that the Electoral Act has been amended three times since its enactment in 2010. (NAN)