Tears flowed freely on Saturday as the remains of a retired military officer, Major Amos Arandong, and his 27-year-old son, Amos, killed by suspected kidnappers were buried in Mbar community, Bokkos Local Government Area of Plateau State. It was gathered that the late officer, who retired in January 2021, and his son were shot dead in the early hours of Tuesday by suspected kidnappers who attacked their house located around Farin Gada community in Jos, the state capital. The gunmen were said to have also abducted Arandong’s wife and another one of his sons. Though she was said to have escaped from the bush, sources said her kidnapped son later regained his freedom after a ransom was paid. During the funeral for the deceased, the Chairman of Bokkos LGA, Chief Yusuf Machen, lamented the tragedy that had befallen the people of the council area. Machen said, “I have been in tears since the incident happened. Recently, Bokkos LGA has been facing a similar calamity. It is either you hear of a case of kidnapping or unknown gunmen killing the people. “What has happened is a painful experience for the people of Mbar community and Bokkos LGA. There is an urgent need for the security agents to redouble their efforts and save the lives of the people from the hands of these gunmen.” The Regional Secretary, Church of Christ in Nation, Rev. Istifanus Silas, in a sermon, described the security challenge in Plateau and other parts of the country as man-made. Calling on Nigerians to love themselves as a way of stemming the tide of insecurity, the cleric said, “Each time an incident like this happens, people blame the devil. “The question to ask is, have you seen the devil? It is we who are living that are doing the evil and until you are able to love your neighbour, irrespective of religion, tribe or where they come from, we will continue to cry because the evils are done by human beings.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com