All the women and young girls know something about this medicine. If you have a stomach upset you have to use Flagyl. Many of these people have it handy in their handbags when they attend parties and would use the drug at the slightest sign of discomfort. Just a few weeks ago one of the readers of this column shared her rather unpleasant experience after she had consumed a large amount of beans and pap. It was eaten at night and the combination had upset her so much that she was ill with abdominal pain, diarrhoea, and occasional vomiting for several days. She had resorted to the use of Flagyl without as much as even complaining to a doctor or a nurse. After a couple of days, there was no improvement and she began to call intermittently at an unholy hour asking for advice. It was that night she knew that Flagyl was an antibiotic rather than an antidiarrhoeal agent. It was an eye-opener and it was a bit frightening. A rather commonly available medication available across the counter throughout the country was not even recognised as an antibiotic. That realisation is the immediate reason for this topic this week and one that is hoped would eventually educate many people about the properties of this drug while understanding the wrong uses, as above, that it is often put to. Flagyl is the trade name of the antibiotic Metronidazole. The latter name is the proper name for the agent and it is manufactured by a raft of companies who have gone ahead actually to give it the names that suit their fancies. All such names can be linked to the respective producers and there is no offence intended for what is perhaps the first among these equals in the Nigerian pharmaceutical space. It is an antibiotic like we said above, and also an antiprotozoal agent which can be used alone or in combination with other medications in the treatment of pelvic inflammatory disease. This particular complex of symptoms that involves a spectrum of inflammatory conditions in the pelvis is peculiar to women. That is because of the unique nature of their reproductive organs and the fact that they have unprotected communication with the outside. This medication is also deployed in the treatment of bacterial vaginosis, trichomoniasis, amebiasis, and giardiasis. Metronidazole, therefore, finds itself being used for the treatment of various bacterial infections of the skin, joints, stomach, vagina, liver, intestines, and even the brain. It is also used to treat certain mouth infections and dental abscesses. It works by stopping the growth of certain bacteria and even parasites as well. It is available for use as a syrup, tablet, pessaries, and intravenous infusion. It has immense effectiveness against Trichomonas vaginalis for which the medication was first approved as an effective form of therapy. The anaerobic bacteria, against which it is typically also effective, are usually gram-negative types. Most of these bacteria are Bacteroides and Fusobacteria which are often found within the gastrointestinal tract and also as occasional invaders of operation sites in the hospital. In the treatment of Entamoeba histolytica, a protozoan that infects the liver and the gastrointestinal tract, Metronidazole is typically effective. It is equally effective in the treatment of mixed vaginal infections caused by Trichomonas vaginalis and other organisms and characterised by a disturbing vaginal itch with associated cheesy discharge and foul smell. In the treatment of Giardia lamblia, a parasitic microorganism that is equipped with tentacles that resemble whips, Metronidazole is similarly effective. The organism colonises and reproduces within the small intestines and causes different patterns of diarrhoea. The organism is found in soil, food, and water. Most people who have diarrhoea caused by that micro-organism would need treatment because it causes diarrhoea, abdominal pain, and weight loss. As this medication has proven over time to have such great effectiveness against a wide variety of intestinal conditions which often manifest with diarrhoea, people now make the mistake of thinking that Flagyl is primarily a pharmaceutical agent useful in the treatment of diarrhoea. Perhaps, in an environment where the majority of diagnostic medical laboratories do not meet the minimum standards, results obtained therefrom may not be considered reliable. As a result, many people take their chances with this medicine and hope it will help them with their condition. Most times, it will help because many of the bacteria which are involved in these illnesses are susceptible to the effects of the drug. Metronidazole is a strong antibiotic that becomes rapidly effective within an hour or two after being taken. It can be taken with food, water, or on an empty stomach. If a patient finds that the drug upsets the stomach, then it can be taken with milk or a meal. The effectiveness of this medication may not be evident right away but after several days, its potency comes into bold relief as many of the symptoms abate. These factors may contribute to the popularity of the drug and its constantly appreciated accompaniment by many people who now see it as a useful item to have at a party. As useful as the medicine is, however, it is helpful to remember that every medication has its own particular side effects and it is no different with Flagyl. It is beneficial to avoid taking alcohol with it because of the greatly enhanced propensity of that combination to cause vomiting and persistence of the feeling of being sick. It may leave a metallic taste in the mouth and can often cause such profound vomiting that the usage may have to be stopped. The alternative to such discontinuation, especially when it is clear that it is the only drug that can clear an infection or is within easy reach, is to administer it in reduced doses. The alternative to those options in the last paragraph is to administer it with a useful anti-emetic agent. By this is meant another medication that has the ability to prevent or reduce vomiting. In combination with Flagyl, the objectives of administering an effective antibiotic for the treatment of an infection can be met. Sometimes, Flagyl can be used in combination with other antibiotics such as tetracycline or penicillin-based drugs. Sometimes, it is administered together with another group of medications known as Cephalosporins. The objective of doing so is to cover an even wider spectrum of organisms that the combination of antibiotics can more effectively eliminate. The reason for this approach is that a lot of infections are caused by more than one micro-organism and so it is often important to kill off the entire colony rather than eliminate one group today only to have to deal with another group after a few days with the use of yet another drug. The other advantages of this combination are that it makes it possible to give a reduced dose of Flagyl, thereby minimising its side effects while amplifying its efficacy by hooking its strengths to another unrelated drug. This kind of effort is called synergy. Dear doctor, I sincerely appreciate your good works on this column because I have benefited from the solutions proffered for other people’s medical problems. I am 73 years old but in the last four weeks, I have been experiencing pains only when I am in the sitting position, but usually feeling better when I am standing. I do an hour of physical exercise daily and do a press-up 10 times to round it up. I take Diclofenac, Neurovite forte, Stimulo, and Ameter forte as recommended by my doctor. I have used the first two and I am about to start the last two today but I am not seeing any sign that the pain will go away. The pain is much. I hope this is not the beginning of arthritis. And can you have arthritis despite the regular daily exercise? I always sleep on my right side and the pains seem to be more pronounced on the right side of the hip.                            0802xxxxxxx Thank you very much for your questions. And thank you also for your support and your kind words. You have not provided much help by not stating how much Diclofenac you take and at what rate. These are critical to making an informed judgment about whether the analgesics you currently use are even sufficient. However, this waist pain is confined to the waist and does not radiate anywhere else in the body. As a result, there is no need for the Neurovite forte. You would probably benefit more if you switched from plain Diclofenac to Arthrotec which is Diclofenac plus a prostaglandin that would protect your stomach lining better due to your age. This is often taken as a 75mg tablet twice daily. Paracetamol can be added to that. It is most unlikely that arthritis at your age will start from the waist but you can reduce the effect of direct pressure on your right hip by learning to turn to the left side at least every two hours. If that is impossible or difficult because it is not easy to change habits at your age, you can try to change your mattress. Arthritis can occur despite regular exercises because that condition is often due to wear and tear. The most frequent conditions that will predispose one to develop arthritis are weight and age. But even for sportsmen and women, arthritis can occur. One of the most famous sportsmen of the 20th Century, Carl Lewis, now suffers from arthritis. Dear doctor, I am a 61-year-old man. The first article I read in Sunday PUNCH is yours because of its educative nature. It was an eye-opener that those growths on bread and tomatoes could be that harmful. Food vendors buy those cheap tomatoes to prepare food for the public. Most of us are victims to have to consume this plant. My question is can’t heat during cooking render the toxin ineffective? Secondly, which treatment can one take even if one is not having any symptoms but suspects to have consumed bread infected with this organism? You are truly a blessing to our generation for bringing to light those things we often overlook but dangerous to our health. God bless you. Regards. xxx@…com Greetings to you sir. Thank you for your kind words. The sort of heating that is produced during cooking, be it with a gas cooker, an open fire using wood, or even a pressure cooker, is insufficient to degrade aflatoxin. It is very stable once it has entered the food chain and even when it is cooked at temperatures of between 160 and 180°C, it is merely degraded to a minor degree. It is not possible to generate this kind of heat in a regular kitchen and as it happens in maize, it merely degrades aflatoxin. Sunlight when applied consistently for about 30 hours can similarly degrade aflatoxin. It is not able to get rid of it completely and there is no prophylactic treatment available to help deal with this nuisance when it appears in food. The best thing usually is to avoid consuming it when it is present in food. Once you identify the growth, please discard the tainted food. It is double jeopardy for people who already have hepatitis to also get infected with this fungus. Aflatoxin acting on a liver already weakened by the hepatitis virus is easier to destroy through a cellular process called necrosis or through the induction of liver cancer. Prevention, we have stressed tirelessly on this page, is better than cure. Take care sir and God bless you. Dear doctor, thanks for all you do for us with your health articles. Please I started having these white flashes in my eyes but more so in the left one. I have seen my husband’s eye doctor and he said that my eyes are okay and that some people have such experiences as they age. I was given an eye drop and a multivitamin (Vision plus). So far, there has been no improvement unless I do not use my phone as often as I usually do. Please I want to know if there is a health issue connected to this feeling I am having in my eyes. Thanks.       0805xxxxxxx You need to see an ophthalmologist for a proper examination of your eyes. I am not certain that you have seen one. An examination such as that will include certain blood tests which will exclude the possibility of diabetes and other metabolic conditions that can have effects like this on your vision. That will go a long way to reassure you and also determine what is wrong. If it does turn out that there is nothing wrong, you will need to find a way to protect your eyes from the glare of your mobile phone and may have to consider using sunshades while doing so. Dear doctor, I am a 32-year-old guy. I made a mistake recently by taking a drug called Sildenafil nitrate 150mg to have sex with my girlfriend. Before taking the drug, I observed that I had premature ejaculation but after taking the drug I do not ejaculate through penetrative sex anymore except I masturbate. Doctor please, is there any drug you can prescribe for me to take to restore me back? 0708xxxxxxx Thank you very much for this question. The dose you took was too large. There, I can agree with you that you made a mistake in taking it. However, when you took your time to look for this medication with the hope of acquiring certain attributes, it is impossible to agree with you that this was a mistake. At any rate, the fact that you do not now ejaculate during penetrative sex may or may not be related to the medicine you took and the approach would be that if that is what now happens to you then do not masturbate; you should simply do the penetrative effort for as long as it takes you to ejaculate. This is not a problem as far as one can see and it may even be beneficial to your relationship. There is nothing wrong and nothing can be gained by placing you on another medicine. Dear doctor, I have taken the recommended two doses of the COVID-19 vaccine. But recently, my cousin who lives in Benin City, Edo State and married to a professor of medicine, told me on the phone that I should not stop wearing a face mask and that coronavirus has not gone away. Is it true? I thought Nigeria was now free of it. Please advise me on what to do. 0802xxxxxxx Well, it has always been the recommendation of this page that even people who have had the two doses of the vaccine should maintain both social and physical distancing outdoors, wear a face covering or mask and wash their hands frequently with soap and water or a hand sanitiser that has an alcohol base. The major problem has been that the people of Nigeria have never believed there was a public health issue of concern and have chosen to take a laissez-faire attitude to the disease. The numbers are going up again in Nigeria, for sure, as is the case elsewhere in the world. Prayers are usually helpful but they will not solve every conceivable problem. In this case, we have to play our part to enhance our protection and just pray. We have not seen the end of this disease yet. Dear doctor, thanks for the regular medical advice and suggestions you give on this page. I read your last essay on Aflatoxin and how it seeps into the body to cause damage. But what exactly is a toxin? Thank you.  0703xxxxxxx A toxin can be defined as a chemical substance that a plant, animal, or micro-organism produces that is harmful to another organism. Therefore, substances like Cyanide which is produced by plants and is even found in food products like cassava can be deadly in high amounts. The same goes for snakes and scorpions which produce animal toxins that can cause immense harm and even death when the injected dose during a bite is high. Lastly, microorganisms also produce toxins through which they cause profound damage and sickness to the body that we often see manifesting as illness. An example of this is aflatoxin. Dear doctor, I have done many operations in my life right from the age of 12 years when I did an operation for appendicitis. Later, after getting married, I did one for fibroids and two caesarean sections. Now, I believe God for another baby and because it is always difficult for me to get pregnant, I went to see my doctor who asked me to do a scan, and what they found was a dermoid cyst. He told me that it is arising from the right ovary and that I should come for an operation. I am just tired. What do you advise? Is there no other way to deal with this? He just put it to me so casually as if it is nothing. Please help.  0802xxxxxxx You see, I understand your sense of frustration. The beauty of surgery is that it identifies a problem and devises a way to remove it and the problem is solved. I will illustrate further; you had appendicitis and it was removed through an operation. Problem solved forever. You had fibroids and they were removed through an operation. End of story. Your pregnancies that followed were probably ended by caesarian births for safety reasons but you have two living offspring due to the diligence employed. Now a dermoid cyst means that there is a sac around the ovary containing a lot of mucus, hair, perhaps fingernails, teeth, and even a completely formed tongue, or an eyeball. What will you be doing with these items inside your body? The sight is often not a pretty one. It is better by far to be rid of them and the safe way to do so is through an operation. That is because it will not go away on its own. Your doctor will explain all of these to you if you would listen to him, and I am sure you will be better off for it. The operation is safe. God speed is my wish for you. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com