The Senate on Tuesday condemned the encroachment of some communities in Ogun State and the arrest of Nigerians by the authorities of the Republic of Benin. The upper chamber has subsequently directed its Committees on Foreign Affairs, Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters, and States and Local Governments to interface with the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Federal Ministry of Justice and National Border Commission. The essence is to ensure that relevant government agencies urgently put in place,  mechanisms that would provide lasting solutions to the disturbing development. The upper took the decision following a point of order raised by Senator Tolu Odebiyi (APC, Ogun West). Coming under Order 42 and 52 of the Senate Rules, Odebiyi recalled the numerous reports of alleged encroachments into Nigeria’s territory by authorities of the Republic of Benin. The Senator lamented that the development, “has become increasingly disturbing.” He said, “Recall also that the reports revealed by Nigeria’s major news outlets like the PUNCH newspaper, published on the 22nd of April 2021, and another report published on the 5th of July 2021 bears testament to these facts.” He also said the “gendarmes” from the Republic of Benin crossed illegally into Nigeria territory to carry out the arrest of one Pastor Kunle Garb and Mr. Benjamin Amosu, his interpreter. He said the victims who are residents of Igbokofi Village in Yewa North Local Government Area of Ogun State were arrested for demanding the reversal of the land encroachment by Government of the Republic of Benin. He said, “The arrest of these Nigerians is based on the allegation that they are resisting encroachment into Nigerian Land through Igbokofi village in Yewa-North local government area of Ogun State; “These allegations of encroachment have been also flayed by the government of the state as published in a release from the State Government calling on the Federal Government to immediately secure the release of Nigerian citizens currently languishing in detention in the Republic of Benin as a result of their resistance to the continued encroachment.”