Matthew Ochei writes on the festering cult clashes in Delta State The increasing cases of cult-related violence are causing residents of Delta State sleepless nights. These heinous cult clashes have resulted in immense loss of human lives, property among other unpalatable developments. Specifically, Umuagu, Umu-Uda, Umuezei, Ogbeoswe, Ikpoto and across Koka by Ibusa road area of Asaba community and their environs have become hotbeds of bloody cult wars.  The cult clashes said to have started in the polytechnic community of Ogwashi-Uku claimed over 20 lives within two weeks in Asaba, the state capital. Many residents of Asaba have not been at rest as many of them live in palpable fear even in broad daylight. They have also cried out as violence is gradually becoming a way of life among some teenagers and adults. On Monday July 12, there was pandemonium at the Camp 74 area of Asaba when an ex-Chairman of the Nigeria Union of Local Government Employees, Oshimili South chapter was killed by a rival cult group on his way back from school runs. Saturday PUNCH gathered that the man was killed in front of his wife after which they shot his wife in the hand. The ex-NULGE chairman was said to have died on the spot while his wife was rushed to the Federal Medical Centre, Asaba for treatment. In Delta State where cult violence is widespread in recent times, property had been destroyed in communities with some residents fleeing their homes for safety. Panicky residents of Umuagu quarters expressed fear that the killings should not be a repeat of the 2006 cult war in Asaba. A food seller, Tina Okwu, told our correspondent that she ran to Kwale in the Ndokwa East Local Government Area of the state when the hit was much in 2006. She said, “My prayer is that what happened in 2006 should not be repeated.’’ Another resident, simply identified as Monday, said he ran to Ogbeosowe in Umuagu when the bloody clashes became routine in Asaba. “The killings are nonstop. The then Commissioner of Police, Udom Ekpudom, declared a shoot-at-sight order when the situation assumed dangerous dimensions, especially those with dangerous weapons. That deceleration calmed the situation until two years ago when the deadly clashes resurfaced. Young boys are attacked either in their houses, bar, restaurant or shops. One was killed at Ibusa Junction in his shop where he sold bread. The reprisal led to the death of eight people. Last year, one person was killed at a bar and over 11 persons died in reprisals before normalcy was restored. “In the last one week, the situation has taken on a dangerous dimension. Over eight people were killed. On Tuesday, a young man was killed and his head was chopped off and displayed at the council area. My worry is that cult clashes are now in secondary schools.’’ Monday stated that business owners tried to close early and some youths find solace in other villages such as Issele-Azagba, Issele-Uku, Okpanam and Benin City to avoid rival cult attacks. He lamented that the attacks in the community had claimed over 23 lives in two weeks and business activities were reducing. It was gathered that in August 2020, there was a violent cult war which claimed 12 lives. A relative of one of the victims of the cult war 2020, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitive nature of the case, bemoaned cult activities in the state. The relation said, “There are politicians using these boys especially during politics. Has anyone wondered where the arms usually come from during elections?’’ In the wake of the ex-NULGE Chairman’s death, reprisal attacks were carried out in the area between Monday and Thursday. A 67-year-old surveyor was said to have been killed on Monday at his home on a street opposite a popular stadium, Umuagu around 6pm while five yet-to-be-identified others were killed at  different locations in the state capital in the Tuesday attack. The severed head of one of the victims was dropped at the Oshimili South Local Government Area junction early Tuesday, while the body was reportedly dropped in the Otuogu area of Asaba. A community leader in Otuogu area of Asaba, Johnfreeman Chiadikabia, accused politicians of sponsoring cultism. He said, “I am one of the elders in Otuogu community and I am an indigene of Asaba. This issue of cultism is disturbing us in Asaba.’’ Chiadikabia, who called on parents to monitor their children closely, urged the government, police and other security agencies to join hands to curtail the menace. Mr Ejovwoke Orusi living at Ikpoto where a victim of cult war was beheaded told our correspondent that the activities had instilled fear in the residents. Orusi said, “Six persons were killed on Tuesday. There is tension in the land now and people are afraid to go out. Traders no longer want to stay out late.’’ However, Mr. Andy Iwendi who lives across Koka area said that cultism had become a business and the rival group fighting themselves are often involved in superiority battles to have the upper hand in controlling the area. “Our leaders are the cause of this menace. The blame is on the government. Politicians are also culpable. They use them as thugs during elections. There should be capital punishment for cultism. Police parade cultists but how many of them appear in court? How many of them are jailed?” In his contribution, an Asaba-based activist, Victor Ojei, described the situation as horrible. The state police command stated that two people were arrested and efforts were ongoing to address the situation. The command’s spokesman, DSP Bright Edafe, spoke on Thursday while reacting to the cult killings in Asaba. He said, “The command has been on their neck and constant raiding is being carried out to see that Delta State will not be a haven for them. The Commissioner of Police Muhammad Ali, is brainstorming with Divisional Police Officers and other officers in the command. “We are raiding all the hotels in the city to arrest the hoodlums. On the cultists paraded by police, we always charge them to court. It’s at the discretion of the court to release them on bail while the trial continues.” Also speaking, the Chief Press Secretary to the state governor, Mr Olise Ifeajika, stated that the governor had directed the police to deal with the matter in the state. Ifeajika said, “If the police say that they are on top of the situation, they are really doing everything to maintain the situation. It is a cult war against a rival group. They are looking among themselves and not innocent people.’’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com