THE convoy of Kano State Governor, Dr Abdullahi Ganduje, was reportedly been attacked by gunmen on Tuesday night while returning to his state from Zamfara. A source, who declined to have his name mentioned, told The PUNCH on Wednesday that three policemen, attached to his convoy suffered varying degrees of injury during the attack. In addition, the source disclosed that Ganduje was in Jigawa State governor’s car, Muhammad Badaru during the attack, said the source. According to the source, the security operatives in the Governor’s convoy engaged the suspected bandits in a gun duel, during which three policemen sustained bullet wounds. Earlier, it was reported that suspected bandits killed a lawmaker, representing Shinkafi Constituency in the Zamfara House of Assembly, Muhammad Ahmad, on Tuesday night. It was learnt that Ahmad was killed on his way to Kano by gunmen, who also kidnapped the lawmaker’s son and driver, just as the bandits were said to have laid siege on Zamfara, Katsina, and Kano Road, near Shema on Tuesday. Recall that this is not the first time such incident would occur, as Ganduje’s convoy was attacked in October 2017 by armed robbers at Hayin Kibau, en-route Jos, the Plateau State capital from Abuja. Similarly, it was gathered that Ganduje’s wife, Prof. Hafsat Ganduje, was in the convoy during the attack, which resulted in a heavy gun battle between the security operatives in the convoy and the bandits. It was learnt that the governor and his wife were flown to Abuja in a chopper from Jos after the gun duel. Ganduje was among other APC governors, who were in Zamfara on Tuesday to receive Governor Bello Matawalle, who defected to the party from the PDP. Meanwhile, efforts made to contact Ganduje’s Chief Press Secretary, Abba Anwar, to confirm the incident was unsuccessful. Nobody is safe, says ACF Reacting to the incident, the pan-northern socio-political organization, Arewa Consultative Forum, has described as “sad” development the attack on the convoy of the governor, which was on its way to Kano from Zamfara State. The National Publicity Secretary of the ACF, Emmanuel Yawe, said, “It is sad but it goes to show the terrible state of insecurity we are in. I hope the governor is safe and nobody is dead as a result of the attack. Nobody is safe. May God save us all.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com