THERE was confusion at the New Haven Extension in Mkpologwu, Enugu East Local Government Area of Enugu State on Wednesday as a missing woman was found dead with head and vital parts allegedly missing. The PUNCH gathered that the woman, whose real name was not immediately ascertained but popularly known as ‘Asa’ and sells soya milk, was said to have gone to farm to get grass for her goat and got missing. Sources told our correspondent that after the woman was not seen, a search party was declared in the neighbourhood. “So, neighbours started searching for her everywhere within the neighbourhood and in the nearby farms, where she normally goes and get grass for her goat’s, but wasn’t found,” one of the sources told our correspondent. He said, “So, the family continued the search the following day and at end of the day, she was not found. I think the family also reported the matter to the police. “Unfortunately, after five days, her body was found nearby Airport Flyover dead and decomposing. But most amazing was her head and vital body parts were reportedly removed.” When our correspondent visited the New Haven Extension where the woman was said to be living, the house was under lock and key. When inquired, a neighbour who gave her name as Mrs Elizabeth Oka, told our correspondent that her family had taken her remains to their home town to bury. She said, “This incident happened on Saturday at this Airport Flyover and the family immediately took her home because it was already decomposing. So, the family members have not come back.” Speaking on the development, the South-East Coordinator, Civil Liberties Organisation (CLO), Mr Kindness Jonah, called on the police to carry out thorough investigation to find out those behind the killing. According to Jonah, the killing of the woman doesn’t speak well of our security. He said, “How can somebody go to her farm and get missing and the next thing was her dead body found somewhere with some parts of her body missing. “We are calling on both the Enugu State Government and the police authority to fish out those behind the act.” When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Daniel Ndukwe, said the police were already investigating the incident. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com