A Federal High Court sitting in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, and presided over by Justice P. M. Ayuba, has convicted and sentenced an oil truck driver, Samuel Obameiye, to two years’ imprisonment for transportation of illegal petroleum products. Obameiye was jailed on Friday, July 16, 2021, after he pleaded guilty to one count bordering on illegal dealing in petroleum products after his arraignment by the Port Harcourt Zonal Office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. The EFCC’s Head of Media and Publicity, Wilson Uwujaren, disclosed this in a statement on Tuesday. The charge read, “That you, Samuel Obameiye, being the driver on board a tipper truck with registration MUS 282 XU, on or about the 27th of April, 2018, along the Port Harcourt-Aba Expressway in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, dealt in petroleum products, to wit, loaded and transported Automotive Gas Oil, which was not of quality expected of such product, thereby committing an offence contrary to Section 1 (18) (a) and punishable under Section 1(17) (a) of the Miscellaneous Offences Act Cap. M17 of the Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004 (Revised Edition).” The statement said he pleaded guilty to the charge. The prosecuting counsel, F. C. Obinwa, prayed the court to convict and sentence the defendant accordingly. However, counsel for the defendant, D. D. Ayuba, prayed the court to temper justice with mercy. Justice Ayuba convicted and sentenced Obameiye to two years’ imprisonment with an option of fine of N250,000, payable into the Federal Government’s account. He also ordered that the truck be released to its owner and the 21 drums of illegally- refined Automated Gas Oil sold by the Deputy Chief Registrar of the Federal High Court in conjunction with EFCC officials. “Obameiye’s journey to the correctional centre started when he was handed over to the EFCC by the 6 Division, Nigerian Army, upon his arrest by the anti-bunkering team of the division. “He was arrested alongside a tipper truck, with number plate, MUS 282 XU, loaded with 21 drums of illegally-refined petroleum products,” the statement added.   ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com