A few days ago, authorities at the Olusegun Agagu University of Science and Technology, Okitipupa,.Ondo State (formerly known as Ondo State University of Science and Technology) announced the institution’s closure after the students protested against alleged insecurity in their host communities. Our correspondent gathered that the peaceful protest was hinged on the alleged constant attacks on them by some people in the communities where they reside as the university had yet to build hostels on the campus. Aside from the loss of personal belongings to the criminals said to constantly attack their abode at night, about four female students were also said to have been raped by the hoodlums. The incidents reportedly created fear among the students who accused the institution’s authorities of not tackling the issue despite several complaints. Prior to the recent development, the state-owned institution had yet to get on its feet because of challenges it was battling since inception. Based on history, the OAUSTECH was founded by the late Dr Olusegun Agagu’s administration in 2007 after the recommendation of a nine-man committee under the chairmanship of the late Prof. Albert Ilemobade, (a former Vice- Chancellor of the Federal University of Technology, Akure) said to have advised the government to establish a university in the state’s southern senatorial district. It was gathered that the committee also recommended that the institution be sited at Okitipupa to meet the needs of the state in the areas of industrial and technological development.  A bill establishing the university was passed by the state assembly and signed into law by the governor. Our correspondent gathered that the 14-year-old university had yet to be on a sound footing and battling diverse challenges ranging from inadequate infrastructure to poor workers’ welfare and proper operation. At a point, the National Universities Commission withdrew its operational licence for failure to resume academic activities two years after it was granted licence. The licence was later released in 2010. Our correspondent who visited the university before its closure observed that some of the abandoned projects there were recently completed and inaugurated by the state governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu. But lack of hostels made the students rent apartments outside the campus where they faced challenges of insecurity.  Some of the students who resided in neighbouring communities such as Okitipupa, Igodan Lisa, Ayeka, Igbodigo among others in the Okitipupa Local Government Area of the state were said to have suffered incessant attacks from criminals. Speaking with Sunday PUNCH, President of the varsity’s Students Union Government, Damilola Okunomo, who confirmed the insecurity situation where some of the students resided, said the matter had been burdensome to his administration, alleging that the institution’s management was not doing enough to secure lives and property of the students. He said, “We are tired of insecurity. Armed hoodlums usually come to our off-campus hostels, rob students at gunpoint, and also rape female students. One of the rape victims even attempted suicide because of stigma. Her friends had to intervene. When they told me about it, I sent a female student to talk to her. We have many victims but cannot come out to speak because of stigma. That is part of the problem we are facing at OAUSTECH. “The management too is not doing enough as we are the ones securing ourselves by working as vigilantes in the communities most times. The situation is terrible. We urge the management to do its best to secure us and complete the hostel on campus as this will also guarantee security to a large extent.” After last week’s protest, the SUG president stated that he and members of his executive had been meeting traditional rulers in the communities on ways to end the problem. Some of the students who spoke with Sunday PUNCH noted that criminals attacked them at their off-campus residences, stealing personal belongings and sexually molesting female students. The students spoke on condition of anonymity and their identities had been protected because of victimisaton. A 500-level student of Microbiology, Aanuoluwa Ajayi, told our correspondent that robbers always entered their hostels with dangerous objects such as knives, cutlasses among others to carry out despicable acts. He said, “This development has become a daily occurrence in the communities we reside.” The student who lived at Igbodigo urged the school authorities and the traditional rulers in the communities to find a lasting solution to the problem. Another student who identified herself only as Ayo from the institution’s Department of Physics stated that cases of robbery and rape were rife in the communities yet no efforts by the management to curb them. According to her, one of her friends was sexually molested by the hoodlums who also stole her property at night. She however said the victim had since left for home to take care of herself. She stated, “The hoodlums steal from the students. They rape ladies. The problem is that the ladies who have been raped cannot speak out because of society. I know a lady who was raped but had to return home to take good care of herself. But victims of robbery have been speaking out and it happens almost every day. We have several communities around the school. There are Ayeka, Okunmo, Igodanlisa and Okitipupa communities. The school is located close to Igodanlisa and most of the students stay in Igodan Lisa and Ayeka communities where most of the problem occurs. We have caught some thieves and we discovered them to be indigenes of the towns.“ Another student identified only as Adegbola who participated in last Thursday’s protest said that the protest was to call the attention of authorities to the insecurity situation, adding that the students had informed them about the development without any action taken. He said, “Even on the day of the protest, we still recorded a robbery incident. Another problem is that there is no police station in the Ayeka, Igodan Lisa and Okunmo Communities. The only security outfit that regularly patrols the area is the Amotekun corps. The only police station beside the school has no policemen. I think the station was vandalised during last year’s #EndSARS protests.’’ Also speaking, one Abdul, who is studying Animal Production and Health in the varsity, said he lived in the Ayeka community. The 200-level student also said that he had been a victim of attack, noting that the hoodlums usually carried out operations whenever it rained. He said, “I was once a victim of the criminals. On that day, a guy who wore a boxer cut the burglary-proof of our house and entered into our apartment. Four students occupy a four-bedroom flat. He entered at about 2am and it rained on that day. It was cold and we were in a deep sleep after campus stress. Before then, there were cases of hoodlum cutting window nets without gaining access into the flat because of burglary-proof. But on this day, the masked hoodlum walked in after cutting the burglary-proof. I was asleep, and by the time I woke up, my phones, power bank, laptop, foodstuff and some other items were gone. “He also ransacked the next room. The lady in the next room was not asleep so the guy brought out a knife to scare her. He stole some of her things. But as he carried her laptop, the lady screamed and he stabbed her twice in her arms. It was the shout that woke us up and before we could get into the room, the thief had run away. We want the management to do something about the matter. We are not safe in this community.” Another robbery victim, Tobi Raphael, said he was robbed on May 23, 2021, while returning from where he went to watch a football match at a hotel beside his house. “As I returned to my house at about 10pm, I heard my flat mate shouting. I checked to see what was happening. I saw a man who held him, so I tried to escape but we had a high fence which I couldn’t climb to jump to the other side. The thief dragged my flat mate towards me and held a knife near him. He held the two of us and out of fear we raised our hands up to show him we had surrendered. Immediately, his partner came and asked for our ATM cards and phones. They collected our phones. I told him I didn’t have an ATM card. “They asked for our laptops and I told them I didn’t have any. He told me that I lied and started beating us. He stabbed me in my right chest and they returned to our rooms and packed our clothes, shoes, foodstuff, gas cylinders and other things. I later managed to escape and people quickly rushed me to a hospital as blood was gushing out. I was hospitalised for about a week.” He added that they used to have minor incidents in the community but it had now become everyday violent robberies. The 500-level student of Industrial Chemistry urged the authorities of the school to look into the issue. He noted that after the last #EndSARS protests, there were a few policemen in the local government. Raphael added, “I appeal to the school authorities to rather collaborate with the Nigeria Army because we have an army barracks at Okitipupa. There is also an army post at Igbokoda town and both places are not up to 10 minutes to the community where we stay. The can partner with the soldiers to patrol the communities.’’ Reacting to the issue, the varsity management said it received reports of a “few unconfirmed instances of rape in the past,” which it said were being investigated. This position was contained in a statement by the institution’s Registrar, Mr Ganiyu Saliu. The statement read in part, “Though there were also pockets of reports of burglaries and thefts around the off-campus hostels, the recent crisis was orchestrated by the incidents of thieves/burglars who were caught and students refused to hand them over to the police until the Nigerian Army from the Okitipupa barracks intervened. “The matter led to disagreements between students and the host communities, with an unfortunate attack of an indigene on the way to his farm in the early hours of Thursday, June 24, 2021. In the wake of the imbroglio, students went on the rampage and even disrupted the meeting of the Governing Council while a few property of the university were destroyed. “We want to put it on record that the management later met with representatives of the students that day and also led the students’ leaders to meet with the Council of Chiefs of two of the major towns around i.e Igodan Lisa and Ayeka. “At the palaces, the traditional leaders pleaded with OAUSTECH students to stop taking laws into their own hands and to desist from night crawling and indecent dressing, especially by some female students that walk around the towns with skimpy/revealing dresses. They requested the management, staff and students to support them in the efforts being put in place by the town to ensure safety of lives and property in the metropolis.” The statement added that the university planned a security summit for July 14 to involve the university, host communities, security agencies and other stakeholders. In the same vein, the state Commissioner of Police, Mr Bolaji Salami, faulted the students’ claim, adding that no student reported a rape case to any security agencies in the area. He added that since the case was not reported, there was no way the police could investigate it. He said, “We have read various reports that gunmen raped students of the university. This is not true. There are no gunmen in Okitipupa community, to the best of our knowledge. No student is raped.  The students living in the town have problems with the locals but that gunmen raped students is totally untrue. The closure of the university is not because of the issue of insecurity. “ Salami said the area commander in the axis had met with stakeholders in the community over the disagreement. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com