Mental illness among new mothers is a global phenomenon, but it is not being properly attended to in Nigeria due to a combination of factors. The lives of newborn babies are at risk, DEJI LAMBO writes In the evening of Monday, March 15, 2021, a one-day-old baby boy was rescued after his yet-to-be-identified mother abandoned him for dead on Oladejo Street in Oko-Oba, a suburb of Lagos State. A good Samaritan, who heard the baby’s cry, alerted men of the Oko-Oba Division of the Lagos State Police Command, who quickly rushed to rescue the infant around 10.20pm. After necessary medical attention, the police handed the baby over to the Child Protection Unit of the Ministry of Youth and Social Development in the state. A week after the incident, another yet-to-be-identified mother, in a similar fashion, abandoned her day-old baby around the Ayinke House, Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Ikeja. The state police command, after being informed by the security department of LASUTH, recovered the baby’s corpse on Sunday, March 21, 2021. Till date, the whereabouts of the babies’ mothers remain unknown. Drowned in a bucket of water While cases of abandoned babies are familiar in Nigeria, in recent times there has been an upsurge in cases of deliberate maternal infanticide. One of the most well-known cases in recent times is that of Oluwafunmilola Adisa. The case made the news after the lifeless body of 21-month-old Oluwanifemi was recovered from a flat in the Ipaja area of Lagos State. When this reporter tracked down Oluwafunmilola to a location in the state, he discovered that there was more to her chilling story. The case stirred a huge controversy on social media. Most of the comments were negative with many Nigerians excoriating the 22-year-old mother for what many described as a callous and inhumane deed. Such was the public anger that this reporter expected to meet a distraught and remorseful Oluwafunmilola when he sought her out. However, he met her lively and unbothered. “I never felt any pain while killing my daughter, Oluwanifemi, because I was very desperate,” she said without a hint of regret. Her take on the most momentous incident of her life so far was heart-wrenching. “No one will be saying I had a daughter outside wedlock. At first, I thought of strangling her or suffocating her with a pillow. But somehow, I got the idea of drowning her because water kills faster,” she stated. Armed with this thought, the 22-year-old started hatching the plan, which she executed around 2pm on Monday, May 11, 2020. Oluwafunmilola’s sister, Damilola, a pharmacist, woke up early for work, leaving the mother and daughter all alone at her residence on Plot 221 Gowon Estate, Ipaja. Oluwafunmilola recalled, “I was dressing up and my daughter was the one giving me my dress to put on, because she knew that I would take her along if I was going out. I was telling her: ‘You’re not going anywhere because you are dying today and I am going to the police station after I kill you’. “I opened a bucket of water, dipped my daughter in it and covered the bucket, but because she stood with both legs, she was able to push away the cover. So, I poured more water in the bucket, dipped her in it and covered it, but she struggled and pushed away the cover again. “I brought her out, turned her upside down, dipped her in the bucket of water and closed it. I opened the bucket after some minutes and saw her floating; so, I brought her out and after observing that she was breathing faintly, I dipped her inside again until she died. “I confirmed that she was dead because her hands and feet were pale and her tongue was out between her teeth. So, I dried her hair, placed her corpse on a pillow on the bed and covered it with a white piece of cloth.” After perpetrating the cruel act, Oluwafunmilola left home and surrendered herself at the Gowon Police Station. She added, “I destroyed my SIM card, locked her corpse inside and mounted a motorcycle to the station. When I got there, I met three policemen, one of them asked why I came to the station and I told him I came to report a murder case. When I was asked who was murdered, I said my daughter. “But when I explained how it all happened, they chased me away from the station, because they never believed me. I later turned myself in because I knew what I did. Every action deserves punishment and I know I’ll go to jail, because I had thought it out before.” Maternal depression When probed, Oluwafunmilola could not give any coherent explanation for killing her child. She offered several incomprehensible reasons. She said, “The reason I took the decision was because of lack of financial help. It might also be because I was just tired of her. Or maybe because of shame, what my friends would say. Maybe I also did it so I could go to school. I was like I can’t go to school, so if I kill her, I will be free.” Her incoherence notwithstanding, many experts in the field of medicine and psychiatry said she exhibited classic symptoms of post-natal depression. The World Health Organisation defines maternal mental health as “a state of well-being in which a mother realises her own abilities, can cope with the normal stresses of life, can work productively and fruitfully, and is able to make a contribution to her community.” A consultant psychiatrist at the University College Hospital, Ibadan, and founder, Asido Foundation, Dr Jibril Abdulmalik, stated that chemicals in the brain were responsible for mental health issues, adding that pregnancy causes a lot of female hormones to be produced and when produced, the level continues to increase in all the trimesters. He said, “So, when pregnant women get into labour, they deliver the baby and the placenta comes out. But the level of these hormones that have been increasing will suddenly nosedive. “These hormones are chemicals and they play a role in the mood of women; some women, immediately after delivery, become emotionally tired and start experiencing postpartum blues, which last just a few hours or days, and then, they normalise. “But when those symptoms continue for weeks, then it is postpartum depression; the sufferers tend to be sad, crying all the time, saying they brought the baby into this world to suffer, the world is such a bad place, this baby is responsible for all my problems, I need to kill the baby so that the baby will go and rest. “They can also have postpartum psychosis, where they become irrational, think abnormal, may be hearing voices to kill their babies, or saying the baby is bad and from the devil; so, they have to deal with the baby for things to become normal, which is not natural or logical thinking. “So, it is that pattern of the symptoms that will allow us as mental health physicians to determine if it is postpartum depression or postpartum psychosis that is happening to the patient; both situations can result in the killing of the baby.” Knowledge deficit A consultant psychiatrist with the Federal Neuropsychiatric Hospital, Yaba, Lagos, Dr Oluyemisi Nyamali, said expectant mothers ought to be taught about postnatal depression at antenatal clinics. She said, “Whenever pregnant women attend antenatal clinics, there are supposed to be different nurses who have training in different specialties. On a particular day, it may be a dental nurse talking to the women about oral health care while pregnant or a psychiatric nurse. “So, if it is a mental health nurse that is there, he or she can enlighten them that there is something called postpartum depression or psychosis, which they need to be aware of. “If they have the information, it is a good way of avoiding it and if they have any symptom that looks like it, they should speak up so that they can be assisted before things get bad.” However, pregnant women interviewed by our correspondent said hospitals do not give talks about postnatal depression and other mental health issues during antenatal clinics. A pregnant mother of one, Opeyemi Wusu, said despite attending antenatal clinics for her past and current pregnancies in two different hospitals in the state, she was never educated about maternal mental health conditions. Asked if she was aware of postpartum depression or psychosis, the expectant mother said, “I am almost due to deliver my second baby. I am doing antenatal at the Zenith Hospital in Badagry and I started early. “They educate us on what to eat and what not to eat. But they didn’t tell us about postpartum depression or psychosis. I have not heard of it until now that you are telling me but I believe it is responsible for some women dumping or abandoning their babies after delivery.” When our correspondent visited the Ayinke House, a maternity on the premises of LASUTH, and the Ifako Ijaiye General Hospital, in the Ifako Ijaiye Local Government Area of the state, some pregnant women, including, Yinka Tijani, Dolapo Adebambo, Esther Ojo and Justina Adiele, said they were not educated about postpartum depression and postpartum psychosis, among other similar maternal mental health conditions. Ojo, who was five-month pregnant said, “I have been doing my antenatal at the Lonlo Primary Health Centre in Iju since January, but was referred to the Ifako Ijaiye General Hospital, because my last scan revealed that my baby was not lying very well. “They don’t lecture us during antenatal at Lonlo; what they do is documentation and attendance, checking of weight and blood pressure and asking if we have any complaints. If there is no complaint, we would be asked to go home.” Tijani stated, “I do come to the Ifako Ijaiye General Hospital for antenatal once a month. “What the nurses and midwives usually tell us is how to take care of ourselves, our babies and signs we will see to indicate that we are about to put to bed. “But since I have been coming for antenatal here, we have not been told anything about postpartum depression or psychosis. We have a lot of people going through a lot of pregnancy-induced trauma. “For some women, the person who got them pregnant rejected it; there is no woman that will be happy in such a situation and in one way or the other, depression may set in and it will affect the mother and even her baby.” Costly ignorance In Nigeria, activists have argued that the treatment of mentally-ill patients is poor with the majority of the patients dumped in traditional and religious healing homes, where abuse is rife. In September 2019, men of the Kaduna State Police Command freed no fewer than 300 persons, including children, who were chained in a house at Rigasa, Igabi Local Government Area of the state. The inmates, it turned out, were mentally-ill patients taken to a religious healing home by their family members. The following month, over 300 mentally-ill persons, who were chained and subjected to dehumanising conditions, were also rescued from an Islamic rehabilitation centre in Daura, Katsina State. The same month, 15 mentally-ill persons and persons suffering from various ailments and social vices were also rescued by the police from the Blessing of Goodness Healing Church, owned by a pastor, Joseph Ojo, in the Ijegun area of Lagos State. Abdulmalik said, “People tend to believe that mental health conditions are spiritual attacks. So, the default mode is that the victims need prayers as they believe the problem is from their enemies. Some will take the victims to the village to hide them there and it is when everything has failed and the situation becomes problematic that they usually go to hospitals. “Meanwhile, if they had initially visited the hospital, it is something that they would have sorted out in a few weeks and the victim would be fine. Sometimes, we see that they would have been battling the symptoms for six months before they visit hospitals and at that point, the victim had lost a lot of grounds, and the baby has suffered without the mother. “They probably would have visited many herbalists, pastors and imams, and spent a lot of money in the process. These are some of the challenges and it is simply because people do not recognise it and if you just check for postpartum blues, postpartum depression and postpartum psychosis on the Internet, you will see the avalanche of information as they are common occurrences among women during pregnancy.” Nyamali also lamented the unprofessional conduct of some nurses, who erroneously advised patients to seek spiritual help at the expense of orthodox medical interventions. Recounting her encounter with a patient, who experienced the mental condition in focus, she stated, “I once managed a patient, who had a difficult delivery that ended up in Caesarean Section. So, after the anaesthesia, it took about 48 hours before the patient recovered fully and when she came around, she was asking for her baby, who had died and the corpse handed over to her husband for disposal. “By the time she was presented to us at the Federal Neuropsychiatric Hospital, she accused her husband, the doctor and all the nurses who took part in the C-section of conniving to kill her baby. “When we asked her family the details of what happened, they confirmed to us that she didn’t truly see the baby, which was not the usual thing. Such a woman should have been allowed to see the baby, because it would help her in grieving.” Nyamali added that family members of some patients with such maternal mental health conditions had been ignorantly hampering the mothers’ bond with their newborn babies, because of the unfounded belief that they could transfer their conditions to their babies through breastfeeding. She added, “The families are fearful of bringing the babies because they are not seeing the advantage of breastfeeding and that emotional attachment, which should not be distorted. “Also, when we look at the system, sometimes you have uninformed nurses or staff members, who tell patients in hospitals that their cases should not to be treated in hospitals and that they should seek spiritual help. So, as you are educating the family, you are educating the staff members and that is why mental health advocacy is very important.” Obsolete laws In addition to the well-known challenges compounding the harsh realities of mentally-ill mothers, an outdated law further restricts the accessibility of Nigerians, especially those in rural and low-income communities, to requisite medical intervention in an environment devoid of stigmatisation and characterised by an appropriate hospital structure in line with global best practices. Oluwafunmilola was arraigned before the Lagos State Magistrates’ Court sitting in Igbosere and presided over by Dora Ojo. After considering an application filed by the Office of the Public Defender, which is representing Oluwafunmilola, the magistrate ruled, “Based on Section 217 (3) of the Administration of Criminal Justice Law of 2015, the defendant should be sent to hospital so that psychiatric tests can be conducted on her to determine her mental state.” Findings by our correspondent revealed that the psychiatric evaluation conducted on Oluwafunmilola at the Psychiatric Department of LASUTH confirmed that she is mentally-ill. A reliable government source said, “She (Oluwafunmilola) is at the women’s wing of the Kirikiri correctional centre, pending when her condition will improve. She is subjected to psychiatric treatment while she’s there.” The spokesman for the Nigeria Correctional Service in Lagos, Rotimi Oladokun, confirmed to our correspondent, “Yes, she (Oluwafunmilola) is still in custody.” While the authorities say that the state has discharged its responsibilities to Oluwafunmilola, mental health experts and activists argue that the support provided by the state for patients or suspects like her are inadequate. They say that this inadequacy derives from the flawed laws governing the investigation and treatment of mentally-ill patients, who commit crimes. The law in question is the Lunacy Act of 1958, which is only a slightly improved version of the Lunacy Act, 1915. For example, the law defines mental illness as ‘madness’ and does not accommodate such modern interventions as ‘prevent, promotion and treatment’. Despite massive campaigns by experts, activists and patients, the law has not been changed to reflect the realities of the modern times. The President, Association of Psychiatrists of Nigeria, Taiwo Sheikh, said, “Mental health is a global topical issue today; different countries have different approaches, but third world countries are far behind the developed countries; and even among the third world countries, Nigeria is far behind. “The law we are operating in Nigeria today is the 1915 Lunacy Law and there is nothing called mental health in that law. It is a law that existed when there was no treatment for mental illness; it is a law that looks at mental illness the way it was in 1915. That tells you a lot about how our government is approaching mental illness in Nigeria. “We are still struggling to have a bill that will protect the rights and prevent abuse of the mentally-ill. This bill is before the National Assembly; it has gone through readings and public hearings, and it is called the Mental Health Bill. “If we have such a bill, someone will not just put Oluwafunmilola in a police cell as the law will force them to do the right thing. Ghana, a small country that is our neighbour, has had the bill since 2012.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com