The Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency has warned those working in the cooling system sector to stop the dismantling of electronic waste materials. LASEPA said in a statement that the e-waste materials should be handed over to registered recyclers or collectors for proper management and disposal. The General Manager of LASEPA, Dr Dolapo Fasawe, gave the warning during an advocacy walk and sensitisation workshop organised to mark this year’s World Refrigeration Day in Alausa, Ikeja. According to the UN, up to 100,000 people work in the informal electronic waste sector in Nigeria, processing half a million tonnes of discarded appliances every year. The statement said the event, titled ‘Cooling champions: Cool careers for a better world’, was geared towards proffering solutions to the environmental challenges faced in various communities by developing eco-friendly coolants and other machines. “We have collaborated with relevant stakeholders today, to create more awareness on dangers inherent in dismantling unwanted electronic waste and the need for operators to dispose of their electronic waste through registered recyclers and e-waste collectors who are properly trained, so as to prevent injuries from exposure to hazardous chemicals,” Fasawe, who was represented by Mrs Adedayo Adebayo, said. She called for the use of ozone-friendly refrigerants for a more sustainable environment. The National President of the Nigerian Association of Refrigeration and Air-Conditioning Practitioners, Mr John Akhabue, urged professionals in the cooling sector to be more dedicated. “Refrigeration is at the very heart of modern life as the system provides the conditions we require for health, comfort, worker’s productivity, manufacturing and essential environment for food, pharmaceutical and digital data,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com