A former Director of the Federal Inland Revenue Service, Emmanuel Obeta, has taken the FIRS to court over his compulsory retirement. The suit was brought before the National Industrial Court sitting in Abuja. Others joined in the suit are the Office of the Head of Service of the Federation and the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami as second and third defendants respectively. Obeta is praying the court for the following orders amongst others, “A declaration that the compulsory retirement and/or dismissal of the Claimant, by the first Defendant, despite the Federal Government Circular Number: HCSF/428/S.1/139, dated 20th June 2016, while relying on a suspended and non-existent Rule 020810(iv) (a) of Chapter two (2)of the Public Service Rules(PSR), (the basis for the FIRS Human Resources Policies and Processes(HRPP), which serves as the operative practice direction to the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS)) is unlawful, illegal, wrongful, null and void and of no effect whatsoever. “A declaration that the Claimant is deemed to still be in the service of the 1st Defendant. “A declaration that the Claimant is entitled to the reliefs sought in this suit upon a declaration by this honorable court that the purported compulsory retirement/dismissal of the Claimant is unlawful, wrongful, illegal, null and void in the circumstances of this case. “An order setting aside the letter with reference no: FIRS/EC/CWMISC/5435/278 and signed by the Executive Chairman of the FIRS, (purportedly determining the appointment of the Claimant) dated 24th March, 2020, titled, ‘Notification of Retirement from the Service of Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS).” When the matter came up on Wednesday before Justice Benedict Kanyip of the National Industrial Court, the counsel for Emmanuel Obeta, Amauche Onyedum, informed the court that the matter was slated for hearing and the originating summons have been filed and served on all the parties. However, the counsel for FIRS informed the court that they were only served upon getting to the courtroom and that they had only entered a conditional memorandum of appearance in the matter. FIRS’ lawyer brought a motion before the court seeking to regularise their appearance in the matter, which was not objected to by Obeta’s lawyer. The court granted the motion as prayed. The FIRS’ lawyer also brought a motion of preliminary objection before the court. Obeta’s lawyer informed the court that she has also filed her reply on points of law and served all the parties except the second defendant. Consequently, Justice Kanyip adjourned the matter to October 6, and ordered that hearing notice should be issued and served on the second and third defendants who were not represented in court. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com