The Speaker of the Bauchi State House of Assembly, Abubakar Suleiman, has called on Nigerians to make sacrifices towards ending insurgency, kidnapping, banditry and other forms of insecurity in the country which he said are great threats to peace in Nigeria. He said this in a message while felicitating with Muslims in Bauchi State and the country at large as they celebrate this year’s Eid-el Kabir. In the message, Abubakar, who is also the Chairman of the Conference of Speakers of State Legislatures of Nigeria, described the holy festive period as a turning point for all Muslims all over the world as they perform the rite of animal sacrifices as commanded by Almighty Allah. He said, “We should use this holy period to show more commitment, faithful and total obedience to Almighty Allah as demonstrated by Prophet Ibrahim (AS) who offered to make self-sacrifice to obey the command of the Almighty Allah. We should show love to one another and offer helping hands to neighbours and the needy. “This year’s Eid-el-Kabir comes at the time when our dear nation is trying hard to overcome some national challenges threatening our development and unity. “The COVID-19 pandemic is still spreading, insurgency, kidnapping, banditry and other form of violence are some great threats to the peace and development of the country. “While I commend the Government for working hard to secure the country and overcome all our national challenges, I enjoin all Nigerians to make more sacrifices toward solving these problems and national growth and development in order to complement the effort of the government. “Leaders should be supported through prayers, support and encouragement so that Almighty Allah will give them wisdom to lead the people efficiently, secure the country and bring developments.” Also, the Bauchi State governor, Bala Mohammed, in his goodwill message, called on Muslims across the country to celebrate the period to strengthen the existing interpersonal relationships and create new ones.