During the inauguration of a project some days ago, one of our governors restated his commitment to leaving a great legacy in his Niger Delta state. Being an outspoken if not a controversial one, he also seized the opportunity to taunt the opposition. According to him, based on the great things his government is doing, the opposition is bound to be envious of it and his party in general. What is the relevance of this to our English class? This has to do with the way the governor presented the message. He said the critics were bound “to jealous us.” What is your impression about the statement, “to jealous us”? It harbours another error that a lot of people commit: using ‘jealous’ as a verb. Although many words can perform the function of more than one part of speech, ‘jealous’ is hardly one of them. It is an adjective, usually describing a human being, and not even a Wole Soyinka may be able to use it outside that context. Well, that sounds hyperbolical because many words have seen real ‘hell’ in the hands of the legendary writer. Under normal circumstances, however, it is an aberration to use ‘jealous’ as a verb: As an adjective, ‘jealous’ can either come before the noun it qualifies or after it: In the first two expressions, the word comes before man and woman respectively. But in the last two, it comes after the nouns. Perhaps some of us make the mistake of using ‘jealous’ as a verb because one of its synonyms –  envious – can be a noun and a verb. That is ‘envy’: Finally, I recall that I have, on more than one occasion, identified ‘rough’ as another adjective that should not be converted into a verb – without observing necessary word formation process. You should bear this too in mind, just as you should remember the other usages we similarly treated (including misusing adverbs as verbs): Don’t rough my shirt. (Wrong) Off the mic. (Wrong) Kingsley, please on the generator so that we can watch the Euro match. (Wrong) Don’t roughen my shirt. (Correct. Switch off the mic. (Correct) Kingsley, please put on the generator so that we can watch the Euro match. (Correct) Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com