The Seminary Saint Anne’s Old Girls Association has asked the Oyo State Government to stop granting individuals or groups permissions to organise parties and other social functions in schools. The National President, SSASOGA, Similoluwa Onabanjo, who said this in Ibadan on Thursday stated that holding social functions in schools exposed students, especially female ones, to many dangers. She spoke after the inauguration of various projects executed by the association at Saint Anne’s School, Molete, Ibadan. The projects are: the furnishing of a classroom block and staff room; purchase of windows and doors as well as painting of Junior Secondary School 1; the replacement of wooden windows with iron; incinerator; landscaping; and the donation of 26 desks. The association also laid the foundation to build an archive and museum for the school. Speaking on the security situation at the school, Onabanjo said there were many entry points into the school, urging that the fence be mended to prevent unwanted visitors from entering the school. She said, “You can’t control who comes in when parties are going on here and these are young girls, who are vulnerable. We need to protect them from sexual predators. “They should stop renting the place out for parties. Is it N20,000 that they collect for renting this place out that is their problem? When you charge N20,000, you expose the lives of about 5,000 children to danger. That is not fair. “There is nobody among us that will leave their house open and allow anybody to go in. This environment should be made less porous to invaders.” Onabanjo said some structures in the school were very old and dilapidated, urging the government to consider the school for renovation. She said the authorities should eject those occupying the school hostels for new ones to be built, adding that accommodations should be provided on the school premises for teachers, particularly those not living in Ibadan. Also, Onabanjo said SSASOGA was ready to assist only “serious” pupils with scholarships. The Director and Zonal Inspector of Education, Ibadan Zone 1, Mr Victor Olugbemi, who read the address of the Office of the Oyo State Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, lauded SSASOGA for its sacrifices to ensure that the school remains one of the best in the world. He said, “The project being inaugurated today, without mincing words, must have gulped millions of naira, time and commitment. But let me remind you that the generations behind you will continue to pray for you. “It is our hope that when the archive and museum building is completed, it will go a long way in shaping the minds of the students in the documentation of the history of the school, while the furnished classrooms and staffroom will add value to the teaching and learning processes, as well as motivate the teachers.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com