The Bureau of Public Enterprises on Monday assured prospective power investors that the five National Integrated Power Plants put up for sale would go on as planned despite calls for its suspension by the House of Representatives. Also, documents sighted in Abuja on Monday showed that the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation had submitted Expression of Interest to the BPE to acquire the five NIPPs though NNPC Gas and Power Investment Company Limited. On July 1, The PUNCH reported that the House of Representatives asked the Federal Government to suspend plan to sell the NIPPs owned by the Niger Delta Power Holding Company Limited until the lingering issues on the ownership of the firm were resolved. The House also mandated its Committees on Power; and Privatisation and Commercialisation to investigate the planned sale of the plants. But in a statement issued by the Head, Public Communications, BPE, Amina Othman, in Abuja on Monday, the bureau said the Federal Government was determined to resuscitate the power plants and put them to full use to meet the electricity needs of the people and growth of the nation. The Director-General, BPE, an agency superintending the privatisation of the five plants, Alex Okoh, said the privatisation of the plants was in line with the bureau’s 2021 work-plan as approved by the National Council on Privatisation and would be strictly adhered to. The five NIPP plants are the Benin Generation Company Limited at Ihovba, Edo State; Calabar Generation Company Limited, Cross River State; Geregu Generation Company Limited, Kogi State; Olorunsogo Generation Company Limited; Ogun State; and Omotosho Generation Company Limited, Ondo State. Okoh explained that based on the approval of the NCP, the bureau engaged the services of a technical adviser and advertised for the Expression of Interest, adding that so far, the BPE had received 36 EOIs as at the close of the advertised period for the preparation of the EOIs. He said the evaluation committee constituted by the management of the bureau, which had nominees of the NDPHC, was trained by the adviser in June and commenced work immediately. Okoh said the committee would soon present its report to the BPE management and subsequently to the technical committee of the National Council on Privatisation for approval. Providing some background to the privatisation process for the plants, Okoh said the initial plan was for the 10 NIPP plants which commenced in 2012, adding that by November 2013 bidders had submitted technical and financial proposals for their privatisation. He was quoted as saying, “In the Request for Proposal, the bidders were informed that they would be required to pay the full purchase consideration for the acquisition of 80 per cent equity in the NIPP generation companies. “An approval was given through the NDPHC in February 2016 to proceed with a phased implementation of the programme by negotiating with the preferred bidders of the four NIPP generation companies with the least challenges.” The BPE boss, however, noted that the transaction was eventually stalled due to the liquidity challenges in the power sector among other factors. Okoh stated on Monday that these challenges were currently being addressed comprehensively by the Federal Government through various programmes such as the Presidential Power Initiative and the World Bank Distribution Intervention Programme. Others, according to him, include the Ministry of Finance and Central Bank of Nigeria’s interventions in addressing the sector’s payments management, as well as the bottlenecks between the distribution companies and the Transmission Company of Nigeria. He said with the earlier termination of the NIPP transaction in accordance with the provisions of the RfP, the bureau after securing the approval of the NCP of its 2021 work-plan, subsequently presented a memo to the council at its second meeting for the year 2021 held in April. Okoh said the memo was to seek for approval of the transaction as well as an expedited transaction process, adding that the council approved the privatisation of the five NIPP plants. The BPE boss further said the NDPHC on its part had in a letter dated April 7 notified the bureau of the approval at its 45th Board Meeting held on April 1 for a joint termination of the previous (2013) privatisation process. This, he said, also included the approval to commence the re-privatisation of the plants. Meanwhile, in the EOI submitted by NNPC, dated June 24, the oil firm described itself as Nigeria’s largest energy company and majority shareholder in over 1,100 megawatts of producing capacity and with over 5,000MW under construction and development. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com