The Lagos State Chapter of the All Progressives Congress on Tuesday inaugurated four peace and reconciliation committees to address grievances arising from the May 29 local government primary election. The APC Caretaker Chairman, Tunde Balogun, who inaugurated the committees at APC Secretariat in Lagos, urged them to pacify all aggrieved party members and stakeholders. Balogun said that the committees, spread across the three senatorial districts of the state, comprised men and women of patience, experience and wisdom to make things better for the party. He said that the constitution of the committees was to engender cohesion, peace and unity in the party ahead of the forthcoming July 24 council poll. The Lagos West Senatorial District 1 committee has a former deputy governor, Abiodun Ogunleye as chairman while Sunny Ajose is to serve as the deputy chairman. Balogun said that other members of the committee were Lekan Ogunbanwo, Sunny Adeeko, Segun Agbaje, Wale Raji, Tunde Isiaq, and Bayo Erikitola. The Lagos West Senatorial District 2 committee has Anthony Adefuye as chairman and Kaoli Olusanya as his deputy chairman. Other members are Kolade Alabi, Jimi Benson, Tayo Orekoya, Wole Diya and Chief Wale Mogaji. The Lagos East Senatorial District committee had Prince Tajudeen Olusi as chairman and Chief Hakeem Bamgbala as the deputy. Other members include Wahab Alawiye-King, Abayomi Daramola, Omolara Vaughan, Jude Adams, Ademola Shabi, and Wale Oshun. The  Lagos Central Senatorial District committee has Prince Rabiu Oluwa as chairman and Funsho Ologunde as the deputy chairman. Kamal Bayewu, Moshood Salvador, Cornelius Ojelabi, Hodewu Avoseh, Dotun Adegbola, and Sunday Kappo constitute other members of the committee. Balogun said that all members of the state APC Caretaker Committee and APC Senatorial District Vice-Chairmen were automatic members, who would serve in the committees in their areas of jurisdiction. “The committees are to highlight further areas of intervention by the state chapter of the party, owing to developments emanating from the committees’ assignment,” the APC chief said. (NAN)