The Minister of Justice and Solicitor-General of the Government of Alberta, Canada, Kelechi Madu, has slammed the Nigerian Minister of Justice and Attorney General, Abubakar Malami, over the re-arrest of the self-acclaimed leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu. Madu, in a post on his LinkedIn page, said if reports that Kanu was abducted from Kenya were true, Malami was not only a disgrace to the rule of law but also not worthy to be a public officer. The Canadian official, who is also the Deputy Government House Leader, said Nigeria and Kenya violated international law in the manner Kanu was extradited and called on world leaders to apply appropriate sanctions. Kanu, who is facing trial for treasonable felony, jumped bail in 2017 and fled the country for the United Kingdom when soldiers stormed his parents’ residence at Afaraukwu, Abia State. Malami, however, announced last Tuesday, that he was rearrested through the collaborative efforts of Nigerian intelligence and security services. The Abia State indigene was taken before Justice Binta Nyako of the Federal High Court, Abuja, where an application for his remand in DSS custody was granted. Madu, who demanded the release of Kanu, urged the Nigerian government to ensure his safety. “The Attorney General of Nigeria, Abubakar Malami is a disgrace to the rule of law, and not worthy to be an officer of the court. He has shown himself to be a bigot who does not understand what it means to live in a pluralistic society governed by the dictates of the rule of law,” he wrote. He also called on the international community and leaders of nations to use all their power to ensure “real consequences for these arbitrary violations of internationally accepted democratic norms and rules that govern civilized people.” Madu said, “Nigeria is burning, and the people of Nigeria, except those who are holding the country down, wants out. You cannot destroy the hope and aspiration of a people destined for greatness and expect them to bow down in servitude. You cannot destroy a generation of people and expect them to not fight for their freedom. The power of guns, state-sponsored terrorism will not achieve peace or the preservation of Nigeria. “The Igbos and other ethnic groups in Nigeria who are calling for Nigeria to be renegotiated do not seek violence or war. They seek peace. They seek progress and the advancement of their people. They seek fairness, safety, equity, and justice for their people. They seek the opportunity for their children to grow up and achieve their God-given abundant potential. They seek the rise of a people with the work ethic, intellect and capacity to be a truly global superpower on the continent of Africa. They seek dignity over inhumane treatment. They seek life over death. “Friends of the black world must unite and liberate the people of Nigeria from this bondage and from the claws of corrupt and inept politicians who have no business being near the corridor of Nigeria’s political power.”