PANDEMONIUM broke out on Tuesday evening in Iperu-Remo, Ikenne Local Government Area of Ogun State, hometown of the state Governor, Dapo Abiodun, when some political thugs attacked and stabbed a bailiff of an Ogun State High Court, Adetayo Odunlami, on his head. The bailiff was reportedly attacked by some persons suspected to be members of the All-Progressives Congress at the party campaign rally in Iperu while he was serving a court summons on one of the leaders of the party. It was gathered that a councillorship aspirant, Muyiwa Osularu, had dragged the Vice Chairman, Caretaker Committee of Ikenne Local Government, Efuwape Muhammed, his party, the APC and the Ogun State Independent Electoral Commission to Sagamu High Court for alleged substitution of his name. Osularu said he was the rightful winner of the primary election conducted by the APC in Iperu Ward 5, on May 20, 2021. He claimed that his name was substituted with Efuwape by the leaders of the party. The aspirant prayed the court to order the APC to forward his name to OGSIEC as the APC councillorship candidate in Ward 5, Iperu Remo. On Tuesday, the bailiff was said to have arrived at the APC campaign rally in Iperu with the court summons. However, he was reportedly beaten to stupor by some yet-to-be identified APC members. It was gathered that the hoodlums allegedly used an axe, cudgel, charms and bottles to inflict injuries on the bailiff. Narrating his ordeal to reporters, Odunlami said, “I went there to serve in the court process. After I had identified myself, he (Efuwape) said ‘so you are the one they sent? I will show you today.’ In the process, his boys attacked me and stole my ATM, identity card, the money in my pocket and my mobile phone. They attacked me with axes, bottles, juju and other dangerous objects. In fact, they wanted to kill me but thank God, I escaped.” The Ogun State Police Public Relations Officer, Abimbola Oyeyemi, confirmed the incident, adding that the police could not arrest anyone because the victim had yet to identify his assailants. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com