The shareholders of Global Spectrum Energy Services Plc have approved the issuance of a bond to finance the company’s expansion plans. GSES, a firm operating in the midstream sub-sector of the oil and gas industry, supplies security vessels, platform supply vessels and others to independent oil companies in the Gulf of Guinea. The company said during its recently completed 14th Annual General Meeting, its shareholders gave the nod to acquire fresh capital to expand its fleet of vessels. According to a statement, the company has been previously funding its operations entirely with its revenues, prompting the move by the shareholders. The Chairman of GSES, Osahon Idemudia, said, “As GSES operates in a niche area of the oil and gas industry, it must continue to make investments to tap into the growing opportunities in the sector.” He said it was quite commendable that the company kept operating without any loans, which he attributed to management efficiency and said it should give comfort to its investors. According to him, the company operates a mix of owned and leased vessels but will function more profitably if the fleet of owned vessels were significantly increased. He added that the need to increase the number of vessels was urgent as the company had expanded its line of services to include merchant vessel escorts with a potential for appreciable contribution to revenue. The merchant shipping escort service is a growing line of business that the company is currently giving new focus as it expands and diversifies its operations, according to the statement. The company also announced that it subjected itself to a credit rating exercise on the headline of issuer rating by both Agusto & Co. and Data Pro, two major credit rating agencies in the country. The statement said the two agencies respectively assigned a “BBB” and “BBB+” to Global Spectrum, adding this would strengthen investor confidence. The agencies, in their rating reports, were quoted as saying the rating assigned to GSES “is upheld by the company’s low leverage or zero debt exposure as the business is largely funded with equity, adequate working capital, an experienced and stable management team, as well as growing client portfolio of international oil companies.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com