Medical experts in Nigeria are watching with bated breath as the Delta variant of the new coronavirus hits several countries around the world, despite an assurance by the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control that the country had yet to record the new strain. The World Health Organisation, in its COVID-19 Weekly Epidemiological Update published on Tuesday, stated that 96 countries had reported cases of the Delta variant, “though this is likely an underestimate as sequencing capacities needed to identify variants are limited.” Considering the increase in transmissibility, the WHO warned that the Delta variant is “expected to rapidly outcompete other variants and become the dominant variant over the coming months.” Similarly, Germany-based Deutsche Welle, in a report published on June 30, said, “The British epidemiologist, Neil Ferguson, believes that Delta is about 60 per cent more infectious than Alpha, which was previously the predominant variant in the UK and, in its turn, is more easily passed on than the ancestral variant that caused the first pandemic wave of spring 2020.” In April, Nigeria detected the original Indian strain thought to be partly responsible for the South Asian country’s second wave of the pandemic beginning in February 2021. The African Centre of Excellence for Genomics of Infectious Diseases at the Redeemers University, Ede, Osun State reported the findings to the NCDC. But the Director General of the NCDC, Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, during last Monday’s briefing of the COVID-19 Presidential Steering Committee in Abuja, reassured the public that “we haven’t found such a variant of concern, we looked at 40 new sequences last week. And just to be sure, we have yet to identify any as we keep looking.” Nigeria has recorded 167,732 confirmed cases, of which 2,121 have died, as of Saturday, according to figures on the NCDC website. Globally, over 183 million have been infected, while the death toll is over 3.9 million. The earliest documented COVID-19 case caused by the Delta variant was found in the Indian state of Maharashtra back in October 2020, with the WHO labelling it a “variant of concern” on May 11. The original variant found in India, otherwise identified as lineage B.1.617, mutated into lineage B.1.617.2. The WHO, on May 31, announced that the mutated variant would henceforth be referred to as the Delta variant, in accordance with the UK variant being labelled as Alpha and the South African Beta. But Ihekweazu, on June 28, had some good news. “As long as Nigerians have access to the vaccine, and carry out the public health measures put in place by the presidential steering committee, the risk of the virus in Nigeria should be mitigated,” he said. Similarly, a professor of virology, Oyewale Tomori, in an interview with Sunday PUNCH, advocated compliance with the guidelines for COVID-19 prevention, including the use of face masks, adding that the ability of the virus to spread between people had given rise to mutation of the Delta variant. He said, “The mother variant, B.1.617, came from India, but the daughter, B.1.617.2, which is the Delta variant, is supposed to be more transmissible. I think they said it mutated in such a way that it attaches more firmly to the cells of the body and causes more severe infection. It affects virtually everybody. “Because it’s more transmissible, many more people can get it. That may be what is happening in other parts of the world now. According to our records, we are told that we don’t have B.1.617.2 yet in Nigeria. But the mother strain, which is the B.1.617, has been discovered in Nigeria. “It is important to let people know that the only way B.1.617.2 came about was through transmission between people. Therefore, if the variant is here, and our people are not using masks, there is a possibility that we can have it also or another different mutant, as long as that variant multiplies around; that is what leads to mutation.” Tomori argued that the discovery of the original Indian strain in Nigeria coupled with non-compliance with the use of face masks and other non-pharmaceutical interventions by the multitude of Nigerians could mean the possibility of another mutant. “I think we need to let people know that so that they alert others to go back to wearing our masks and doing everything to limit the possibility of transmitting the virus and giving out a new variant,” he said. In addition to use face masks, the COVID-19 Presidential Steering Committee recommends regular hand washing and social distancing. Prof David Olaleye of the Department of Virology, University of Ibadan, Oyo State, also stated that, according to scientists’ observations, the mutation of the Delta variant showed a higher level of adaptability in humans. Olaleye said, “The main thing we know today about the Delta variant compared with the other variants is that it is more transmissible than the others, which means it spreads faster. “Ordinarily, when we as human populations are exposed to virus infections, about 10 to 20 per cent actually become infected. And out of this 10 to 20 per cent, there is what we call abortive infection. The virus attaches but it does not progress further than that, and then that phage (virus) is aborted.” The host is able to overcome infection at that level, he added. “But in this case, if it’s spreading faster and transmitting, what it means is really that it has adapted much better than the others in terms of attachment and establishing infections. So, it spreads faster, but the implications of that is that you can protect it. “For Nigeria, as long as one adheres or complies with these safety measures, regardless of whatever variant, it’s the same safety or prevention measures. One does not know when one can be exposed to the more virulent or pathogenic variant than Delta with time,” the epidemiologist explained. The pandemic has lasted only one and a half years, Olaleye noted, so the virus is still establishing itself. He added that, over time, new variants might emerge that could be more or even less pathogenic than those already discovered. “Again, in terms of control, the same measure of prevention—social distancing and hand washing—will help to prevent infections just like any other one,” he advised. Tomori also emphasised the need for Nigerians to receive the COVID-19 vaccine, arguing that the benefits of getting it were greater than the risk. The National Primary Health Care Development Agency, on June 29, stated that a total of 3.4 million doses of Oxford AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccine had been administered for the first and second dose vaccinations.                 ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com