Time has yet to heal the grief of the Ibrahims and the Iloris after losing their children to death three months ago. Twenty-year-old driver, Jamilu Ibrahim, was allegedly killed on his birthday by some security agents in Ogun State. Sober atmosphere pervaded the residence of the Ibrahims located in the Sabo area, Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State, when our correspondent visited on Thursday. Danjuma Ibrahim’s young daughter was all over him as he tried speaking with our correspondent about how his younger brother, Jamilu, died.  His wife tried to caution the baby to let her father concentrate with our correspondent. But she left only to return a few minutes after in her innocent mien to continue playing with her father. Danjuma was still in shock as he tried to recollect the April 24 incident.  He told Saturday PUNCH that eyewitnesses said that Amotekun, So Safe Corps (formerly called Vigilante Service of Ogun State) and the police in Ogun State came to the area that day in search of members of cultists. He noted that the security agents violently invaded people’s homes to arrest those they accused of engaging in cult-related activities. It was alleged that during the invasion, Jamilu went to a nearby mosque and never returned home alive. He said calmly, “I went out with my first child that day to buy something. It was when I was returning that my sister called me to say some security agents comprising Amotekun Corps, So Safe Corps and police shot my younger brother Jamilu.’’ He added that his brother was sleeping all day and was awoken by their mother to go to the mosque only for him to be killed. Danjuma added, “He was sleeping all day until my mother woke him up in the evening to go to the mosque for prayer. He was also fasting. Shortly after he left the house, those at home heard gunshots. They had no idea what happened until someone came to inform my mother that my brother had been killed.’’ He further added that he was told his mother immediately ran out of the house when she heard the news and abruptly stopped at a point on the road where her son’s lifeless body was and wept bitterly. The elderly Ibrahim noted that by the time he got to the scene, his brother’s corpse had been put into an Amotekun van which drove away from the scene to the consternation of residents and passersby. He added that he followed the vehicle on his motorcycle up to the General Hospital, adding that the driver of the van didn’t enter the facility. Danjuma stated, “They went further and drove into a mortuary located after the hospital. At that point, I knew that my brother had died. Another family member and I met with the Divisional Police Officer at Obalende Police Station on Sunday, April 25. We have yet to get justice and this is what we want. My brother must not die in vain. We have not seen his corpse since then.’’ The mother of the late Jamilu’s baby said that their baby had barely clocked 41 days before the incident happened. She described the late Jamilu  as a hardworking man who always provided for their baby’s needs. Another family still in mourning were the Iloris.  Their son, Femi, was allegedly killed on the same day within the same vicinity where Jamilu was murdered by the security agents. Sunday Ilori, the father of the late Femi, was grief-stricken when our correspondent met him. Femi was said to have been arrested by the security agents whom residents said were searching for cultists in the Sango area. As he sat on a bench attending to our correspondent, residents in the area who passed by stopped to offer sympathies. He said, “My in-law told me that day that Femi was arrested. As we made our way to the police station, I saw an Amotekun van on the way. But when we got back to the police station, we didn’t find him there. Someone later told me that my son had been killed. I am heartbroken and want justice to be served in the matter. I don’t know where his corpse is.’’ A neighbour to the Iloris, Mrs Kafilat Olamilekan, said the security agents inflicted injury on her hand the day they stormed the community. She stated, “They came in and searched the rooms in our house. They even went to the toilet and banged at the door. An aged fellow tenant was inside. In trying to explain to them what happened, they pounced on me and got me injured. The affected hand is in bandage.’’ Contacted on the allegation that security agents were responsible for the murders, the So Safe commander, Mr Soji Ganzalo, directed our correspondent to speak with the police. He said, “Please relate with the police on the matter. If you’re asking me anything, it’s a matter with the police and the court. They are involved in the investigation. The police will give you a clearer picture on it.’’ Besides, the state Amotekun Corps Commander, David Akinremi, a retired Commissioner of Police, ended the call when our correspondent explained the reason for calling. Subsequent calls to his mobile were not answered. On his part, the state police spokesperson, Abimbola Oyeyemi, promised to find out details about the matter before he could give any comment. He said, “Give me time to get more details about the matter and get back to you.’’ But he had yet to do so as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com