Actresses, Joke Silva and Mercy Aigbe have joined other Nollywood stars to celebrate Veteran actor, Richard Mofe Damijo, fondly known as RMD, as he clocked 60 on Tuesday. In celebrating the actor, Silva took to her Instagram page to recount past projects they have worked on together. She wrote, “The one and only Richard Mofe Damijo RMD. In 1993, you played my priest in the ‘King must Dance Naked'(stage). In that same year, you played my father in the ‘Musical Holy Child’ (stage). ’94, you played my love interest in ‘Lion and the Jewel’ (stage), my son in ‘Violated’ (film) and ‘Idia’ (stage), my husband in ‘Husband’s Wife’ (stage) and ‘Namatse Wahala’ (film). “Consummate actor…but more importantly good friend. You have shown us 60 is just the beginning. Enjoy your new season. Jumobi, thank you. Without you, our RMD of today would not be possible.” Aigbe wrote on Instagram, “So RMD be giving some major Sugar Daddy Vibezzzz! This pappy has refused to age! “Happy birthday to the legendary @mofedamijo, keep basking in God’s Abundant Grace, great health and unending blessings! Have a blast Zaddy!” Another actress, Kate Henshaw wrote, “Bros of Brosses dem!! Who dey breeeet? 60 whaaaaat??!!!! Forget abeg, age ain’t nothing but a number when you are living your life truly on your own terms!! May God continue to honour you and be gracious unto you all the days of your life!. Hip Hip Hip!! Hurray!!. Happy birthday, @mofedamijo . Lots of love”(sic). Celebrating the icon, Dakore Akande wrote, “The Living Legend, the Icon Living Sir Richard Mofe Damijo @mofedamijo is 60!!!!???? How many 60-year-olds look like this???? “They’re few and far between, that’s for sure! But this man goes way beyond his great looks. He has been an inspiration to me and I’m sure a lot of people cut across different ages, stages and disciplines. “Where do I begin? Biggest bros, mentor, Man of God, my Senior paddy in the jungle, my Tega of #caughtinthemiddle, my Mr Castle of #castleandcastle series! E pain me say I no dey around for the main groove chai! But we go continue from where we stop I promise “Have a fantabulous 60th birthday. Do shakara well well and know that you are loved, revered and appreciated! May God bless you forever and a day! #RMDis60 #ChiefZADDY”(sic). Movie Producer, Mo Abudu shared a video of herself wishing RMD a happy birthday. The video caption read, “Dearest RMD. The One and Only, a living legend, my friend and brother for nearly 30 years. Today we celebrate your 60th birthday and we celebrate you as an icon. A man of many parts, father, husband, grandfather, mentor, brother, friend, peace maker, lawyer and actor. “You are loved by me and so many. Thank you for being you RMD. Thank you for your contributions to the growth of our industry and for giving it your all. Thank you for supporting me on my journey and giving such incredible performances in ‘The Wedding Party’ and ‘Castle & Castle.’ “As you turn 60 today, I wish you Gods continued abundant love, favour and grace. Looking forward to partying with you tonight.”