THE fresh pledge by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), that criminals bearing arms against the country would be brought to book should be different from the all-bark-and-no-bite trend typical of the regime’s declarations. There are too many illegal arms and the federal and state governments must join forces to tackle the menace. Mopping up illegal arms is now more urgent than ever before considering the killing fields that bandits and insurgents have turned several states in the North to. Worryingly, the horrific violence is spreading like wildfires to other parts of the country.  A former military Head of State, Abdulsalami Abubakar, said that the number of small arms in the hands of non-state actors is about 6,145,000, while the Armed Forces and law enforcement agents have only 586,600 firearms. Previously, a United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime survey put the number of illicit small and light weapons in Nigeria at 70 per cent or 350 million of the total of 500 million in the West African sub-region. The evil effect is that the country is drowning in the surfeit of illegal weapons. Though security agencies seize illicit weapons around the country, there is little or no transparency in the way the seized arms and ammunition are disposed of. As is the case in Kenya, these weapons need to be accounted for. Eventually, they should be destroyed transparently in the open as happens in the East African country. Buhari, represented by Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, handed down the warning during the All Progressives Congress youths conference in Abuja. He said, “As I have repeatedly said in recent weeks, every criminal element that has taken up arms against the peace of the country and its citizens will be brought to book accordingly. As you are all aware, we are currently dealing with some internal security challenges and I would like to reassure you that as the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, no effort will be spared in tackling them.” In the wake of the pointless killings in Zamfara and other parts of the country, Buhari in March, ordered military commanders to shoot unauthorised persons armed with AK-47 rifles. Earlier in February, a presidential spokesperson stated on national television that the President had ordered the arrest and prosecution of illegal arms bearers in the country regardless of their ethnic affiliation. The orders appeared like a paper tiger as the violent invasion of farms, villages and schools, and the mindless killing of villagers across the country by criminals bearing sophisticated weapons persist. Desperate politicians are partly responsible for this bothersome situation. They boldly empower hoodlums with arms every election year to foment trouble. In the process, an army of illegal arms bearers threatening the peace and survival of the country is created. Research findings also show that indigenous craft production is an important source of illicit weapons in Nigeria, with armed actors of diverse backgrounds increasingly using locally made weapons in the country’s many armed conflicts. There should be a national mop-up plan to disarm diverse criminals and prosecute them and their sponsors irrespective of ethnic nationality or gender. Intelligence-driven operations are required from the security forces to arrest and prosecute the syndicates and individuals smuggling arms into the country. This is crucial to send a strong warning to devoted collaborators within and outside the country that it is game over. Security agents manning the country’s borders must also be charged by the relevant authorities on the need for them to be alive to their duties. Illegal weapons are ferried into the country mainly through the country’s sea and land borders. This illicit trafficking has been thriving for too long and everything must be done to put a stop to it. In the past, some illegal arms were intercepted while security experts believed that many escaped the scrutiny of the security agents, hence their proliferation in the country. In May, the police in Ebonyi State intercepted 753 pieces of live ammunition meant for general-purpose machine guns. The contraband must have passed through either land or maritime borders en route its destination before the police intercepted it. There is also the theory of illicit weapons coming into the country through the Sahel region, which Nigeria and other neighbouring countries ought to address decisively. It had been noted that many of the arms in Nigeria from the Sahel and Lake Chad region were smuggled into the country via its porous borders. Also, the President had noted that instability in Libya fuels the flow of illicit arms and ammunition into countries in the Sahel region. But Nigeria should have gone beyond this lamentation stage, especially as its border closure for about 18 months did not curb the inflow of arms and ammunition into the country. It needs drastic action, sincerity, dedication, and the political will to tackle the hydra-headed monster threatening its existence. Where does the Buhari regime stand on illegal arms in the hands of Fulani herders? Failure to urgently do this would not only further bolster arms dealers and bearers but also worsen the country’s descent into anarchy. Still under the yoke of insurgency and banditry, pockets of cruelty in the form of armed robbery, ritual killings and kidnapping have joined the mix to worsen Nigeria’s security challenges. State governments cannot afford to sit on the fence or stand aloof at this critical time. Arresting the dangerous upsurge will involve both supply and demand sides for illegal weapons. Every state should initiate exceptional security measures to curb the festering violence. The situation is alarming, and all the state actors should see it as such. The Global Terrorism Index 2020 report ranked Nigeria, for the sixth consecutive year, as the third-worst terrorism-impacted country in the world. There are still other criminal groups that have enough weapons and influence to outgun state forces. A comprehensive anti-crime programme, beginning with a massive illicit arms mop-up, should be quickly devised and implemented to stop the blood-letting and secure the lives and property of the people. Nigeria is in dire straits and pragmatic action is needed to tackle the scourge. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com