The World Bank has said that it will mobilise an IDA20 replenishment envelope of at least $100bn to help Nigeria and other members of the International Development Association to quicken their recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic. It disclosed this on Thursday in a statement titled ‘African heads of state call for an ambitious replenishment of the IDA20 to support their recovery agenda’. The statement said this was disclosed after 13 African heads of state and governments concluded their one-day meeting in Abidjan on Thursday with a strong resolution to accelerate economic recovery from the shocks of the COVID-19 pandemic, scale-up investments in human capital, and increase their job creation efforts. They called for a robust 20th replenishment of the World Bank Group’s International Development Association (IDA20) to support these efforts. The President, the Republic of Côte d’Ivoire, Alassane Ouattara, “The funding process that begins in Abidjan this week will conclude at the end of this year with a policy and financial package to support specific projects in the 74 IDA countries over the next three years. “The goal to mobilise an IDA20 replenishment envelope of at least $100bn, for three years, would be the largest amount raised in IDA’s history. “This is a good opportunity to demonstrate that solidarity is effectively essential for the good of all and that we can act together to return to the path of income convergence that we were on prior to the pandemic and build a safer and prosperous world. “We know that when the World Bank has the backing of all its stakeholders, it has the capacity and oversight to make a difference.” In a joint declaration endorsed at the meeting, the heads of state emphasised that economic recovery, job creation, and investments in human capital including expanding access to vaccines were critical to help people recover from the shocks of the pandemic, get out of extreme poverty, and build a more resilient and inclusive future. World Bank Managing Director for Operations, Axel van Trotsenburg, said, “Today we heard from the heads of state how this pandemic has affected their countries and their need for stable future financing to meet their development ambitions. IDA is a big part of financing and recovery solutions for all these countries. “An ambitious IDA20 will be a powerful force helping countries with a green and inclusive recovery to get back to the 2030 goals.” The meeting was attended by leaders of Angola, Benin, Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, Cameroon, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea Bissau, Kenya, Liberia, Mauritania, Madagascar, Mozambique, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, Sudan, Tanzania, Togo and Uganda. Other attendees were heads of regional commissions including the West African Economic and Monetary Union, Economic Commission for West Africa, Central African Economic and Monetary Community, and the African Union. The meeting was also attended by World Bank Group leadership and representatives of IDA donor governments. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com