The desire to own, nurture and protect the things we love is distinctive and instinctive to humans. The quest for ownership is beyond the possession of things; it is an indicator of growth, a reflection of aspiration and validation to others that we have become, and we now belong. One of such possessions is our home and household that make it more than a mere shelter. Our house, which is visible evidence of the possessive nature of humans, means more than living in a secured and safe place or creating a serene environment that aids productivity. It includes the ambience that enriches the minds and the appliances and gadgets that give life to the surroundings. A recent Customer Expenditure Survey conducted in the US and UK showed that housing takes the most significant chunk of spends, accounting for 33% of monthly expenses in the US and about 24% in the UK. Similarly, the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) states that consumption expenditure on housing in Lagos is about 8% of the total expenditure of 52% on non-food items. What these statistics tell us is the criticality of what a home and household mean to us. So, any household loss would have immense economic, social, and psychological implications on its owner. Unfortunately, ensuring that no loss occurs is beyond human control; natural disasters such as floods and heavy rainfall are ever-present dangers that pose threats of damages to properties, household items, public infrastructure, and sometimes claiming the lives of those we love. In recent years, flooding has had a significant effect on both individuals and communities. A report in 2020 on the impact of flooding on Nigeria’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) recorded that “more than 2.3 million people were displaced, 363 lost their lives and another 16 million people impacted in various ways. These impacts wipe away the years of development gains and are reported to have brought about a total loss of about US$16.9 billion between 2012 – 2020 (N6.9 trillion). Early this year, the Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency (NIHSA) revealed that 28 states in Nigeria would most likely experience flooding disasters owing to unprecedented heavy downpours expected in the course of 2021. The Nigeria Meteorological Agency (NiMET), in its 2021 seasonal climate forecast, blamed the worrisome trend on climate change. As expected, residents are apprehensive. Uche Igwe, who runs a cybercafe business at Trademore Estate in Lugbe, Abuja, told TheCable that he “lost over two million Naira worth of electronics” when rainwater overran the office complex and destroyed a part of the building in August 2020. Similarly, Victor Essang, a resident of Calabar, Cross River state capital, also revealed to the online news platform that he was rendered homeless when rain-induced flooding destroyed the block of flats he inherited from their grandparents last year. In 2016, he first experienced the devastation of intense rainfall when he lost his entire poultry business to the resulting floods. In Lagos, Tomiwa Sulaimon, a resident of Bello Street in the Ilasamaja area of the state, told the Guardian Newspaper that she would prefer to relocate from the area before the projected rainfall intensifies because it was no longer financially feasible to cope with the impact of these consistent flooding in the neighbourhood. Beyond the financial loss and traumatic episodes that come with losing one’s home and properties to flooding, the cost of restoration can be overwhelming. In this article, we highlight three key steps to make the recovery process easy. This step might sound insensitive, but it is a realistic and intelligent position to take for you and your family. Taking care of yourself, the children, and your family helps keep your head above water and allows you to think more positively and strategically. Ensure you watch and manage your stress level, care for your children, speak with your family on the plans towards recovery. When hit by flooding, we must accept the reality that the damage has been done. The next step is to initiate a damage control process. When entering a flooded house, it is critical to apply caution; watch out for slippery surfaces, debris like wood, blocks, bottles, nails or exposed electrical cords. Survey the extent of damage and losses, separate the damaged property from those still intact to avoid further losses, then take photos of the harm to your property and possessions for documentation purposes. After documenting the losses from the flood incidence, seek help by calling your insurance provider to take off the financial pressures that come with recovery and replacement of the damaged assets. This step is a relief is for those who have been proactive enough to have procured an insurance policy. There is peace of mind to know there is an insurance provider to call and file a claim for the loss at this time. You cannot do anything to turn back time and stop what has already happened, but you can take action to better avoid losses in the future – this is where insurance comes in. With prevailing global warming, rainfall and flood warning by the Nigerian meteorological agency, there is no guessing that flood can happen unannounced, anywhere, and anytime. In this light, Leadway Assurance Company Limited, Nigeria’s foremost insurer, designed the Leadway Householder Insurance to help policyholders recover from one of nature’s disasters. The most brilliant step for any homeowner or a tenant is to ensure that your home and its content are shielded against natural disasters and other risks such as fire, burglary, explosion etc. With a coverage limit of N10,000,000 and N20,000,000 on an affordable premium of N10,000 and N20,000 respectively, you are sure on your way to staying afloat despite a devastating natural disaster. In addition, the policy also caters for funeral expenses should the worse happen. What a relief! To know more about this policy or should you require additional cover beyond your limit, please visit https://www.leadway.com/householder-cover/ or call the Leadway Assurance customer care helpline on 01-2800-700. You can also send an email to Lcs@leadway.com for professional advisory or request a call back by visiting  www.leadway.com/call-me. We are within your reach on our social media outlets – @LeadwayAssurance on Facebook & Instagram, @Leadwayinsure on Twitter. You can send a DM, and we would revert with all the information you require.