The Chief Medical Director of the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi-Araba, Prof. Chris Bode, has advocated support from well-meaning organisations in delivering quality health care to the people. Bode, according to a statement on Wednesday, said this during a visit to the African Foundries Limited, Lagos, in appreciation of the firm’s donation of 1000 cylinders of oxygen during the heat of the pandemic. The CMD hailed the firm for showing humane disposition to persons affected with COVID-19 and Nigerians at large. Bode urged the private and public sectors to work harmoniously towards boosting the health of the nation, saying no country would do anything without guaranteed health. “We shall be  an ingrate if we don’t come to show appreciation having received about 1000 cylinders of oxygen from AFL during the peak of the pandemic. The need for cylinders and oxygen was dire and receiving oxygen from African Foundries was like a manner from above. “AFL has shown love for humanity by coming in when we were in serious need of oxygen. Recall that the need for Oxygen and other facilities were higher in Lagos than in any other part of the country even to date. We hope other well-meaning Nigerians would be their brothers’ keeper like AFL has shown. The Group Executive Director of the firm, Uche Iwuamadi, who spoke on behalf of the firm’s Group Managing Director, Mr Alok Gupta, said the gesture was part of the firm’s Corporate Social Responsibility, saying no time would have been more apt to show love to mankind than during the pandemic. “Production of medical oxygen is not our core business, but when COVID-19 struck, we came together and decided on how we could help ameliorate the health emergency, so, we chose to give them out to so many hospitals in the country,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com