The President of the Nigeria Baptist Convention, Rev Israel Akanji, has called on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to intensify efforts towards ensuring the release of the students of the Baptist Bethel High School, Kaduna, from the captivity of bandits. The NBC president said the students, their parents, families as well as teachers and the entire country were being traumatised by the abduction of over 100 students from their school on July 5. Speaking in an interview with our correspondent on Friday on the sidelines of the activities marking the 20th anniversary of Bowen University, Iwo, the cleric, who is the Visitor to the institution, said the church had been praying to God and believed that the prayers would be answered. Akanji said one out of the 121 students taken away by the bandits was released because he was very sick. The boy, the NBC president said, told the school management that his other 120 colleagues were alive and well as of the time he was freed. He, however, called on Buhari to do everything possible to ensure that the pupils, who have been with their abductors for almost two weeks now, were released unhurt. He said, “We are helpless but we are calling on God and asking the government to intensify action for the release of the children. Up till now, 120 children are still in the captivity of bandits. “I have made appeals to President Buhari and to the executive governor of the state and they assured me that the armed forces are all putting their efforts together. My appeal now is to President Muhammadu Buhari that these little children should be rescued. “The Baptist denomination, like other denominations, has been contributing to the development of Nigeria. We started education in Nigeria in 1855. It is well known that it is 166 years now since we started and this has never happened. “Therefore, the President should step in, in a way that these students will be released unhurt. It is not only the students that are suffering; their parents are suffering; their teachers are unhappy and all Nigerians are unhappy about it. “We are appealing to Mr President to step in so that these children will be released unhurt and very soon.” A former Pro-Chancellor and Chairman, Governing Council of Bowen University, Prof Adebisi Adebowale, who delivered the anniversary lecture, lamented the worsening insecurity in the country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com