Before the 2015 general election in Nigeria, senior leaders in the Peoples Democratic Party had boasted of their desire to rule for “65 years”. That dream, aspiration, plan, scheme, whatever, was cut short by the electorate, who handed over power to the All Progressives Congress, after ‘only’ 16 years. Many people breathed a sigh of relief at the extraordinary exercise in peaceful transfer of power. The PDP had been in power for 16 uninterrupted years prior to their defeat at the polls. As if that was not already long enough, the thought of the party staying in power for another 54 years? That was too much for many. That, alone, spurred on a lot of people, and galvanised them towards the ballot box to vote for ‘change’.  Well, if you are one of those aghast at the faint possibility of a PDP rule for 60 years in Nigeria, then, spare a thought for China, and the Chinese Communist Party, in existence for the last 100 years. The country is, at the moment, celebrating its centenary as well as its iron-grip on power since 1949. If the spectre of a single party staying in power for so long fills some with horror in this moment, in Nigeria, and elsewhere in Africa, it is only because people have a short memory. Africa used to be home to one-party dictatorship of all stripes, second only to that of China for a long period of time since independence in the 1960s. The question now is, why has one one-party rule survived (indeed thrived) in China, and failed in Africa? And, is the Chinese model a viable path going forward? The CCP was founded in July 1921, the exact date is not known, and is immaterial, really. July 1 has been designated as the official birthday of the party, and so it was that extensive and expansive centenary celebration of its longevity has been on display in China and given coverage across the media all over the world.  China was a peasant, rural and impoverished nation in 1921, and had been influenced by the Russian (Bolshevik) Revolution in 1917, ushering in a new era of workers’ revolutionary government triumphing over the ‘evils’ of the bourgeoisies and capitalism. This is understandable in a country hitherto ravaged by decades of conflicts, and foreign invasion. After a sustained campaign of agitation and upheavals across the land, the party finally took overall control of mainland China and the central government in 1949, leading to a split and the breakaway region of Taiwan. The region still maintains its autonomous status from China today. That will be resolved either through the ballot or the bullet, but, more likely the latter, sooner or later. The CCP does not fancy opposition of any type, be it official or clandestine. It is a party fortified in power by the “People’s Liberation Army”, the country’s military unit with an impressive array of weapons so vast that it warranted China’s invitation onto the Security Council of the United Nations as one its five permanent members from its creation in 1945. There are a number of other political organisations allowed to operate alongside the CCP, but they are all affiliated to the main party, governed by a “Central Committee”, which meets once a year. Daily activities are vested in the “Politburo” and its array of “Standing Committees”. Party Leader, or General Secretary, also doubles as Chairman of the Central Military Commission. It is the equivalent of a Chief Executive Officer, who is also generalissimo, and supreme leader rolled into one. The person occupying that position is currently President Xi Jinping, ‘elected’ at the 18th Central Committee meeting held in November 2012. The party operates its own unique system of democracy, “democratic centralism”, where members can disagree on policy as long as they are committed to the party’s constitution guided by the political doctrine of Marxism-Leninism. This was ruthlessly pursued by Mao Zedong in the years following the takeover of government in Peking, the country’s capital, (now known as Beijing). Mao initiated “The Great Leap Forward” from 1958 to 1965, a crude and tokenistic attempt at bludgeoning the population into submission, and to establish Nirvana (a Socialist Paradise) on earth. This was superseded by a “Cultural Revolution” in 1965, which saw a mass purge of the party’s senior-ranking officials deemed infective and ‘counter-revolutionary’. It was a revolution to punish the slow pace of the main revolution. The death of Mao in 1978, and subsequent execution of his widow, Jiang Quig, brought sweeping changes and reform to rigid centralisation and the command and control system. Following a clear and decisive repudiation of Mao, and an end to ‘class struggle’, China has been growing in leaps and bounds, opening the country up to private ownership of property and rewarding thrift. Greed, (the main capitalist’s vice), has been grudgingly weaved into the country’s entrepreneurial modus operandi. The CCP has steered the economy away from levelling out poverty, to spreading prosperity even if it makes the people more unequal. China has become the world’s production factory, lifting 800 million citizens (2/3 of its population) out of poverty since the 1990s. Imagine lifting the whole of Africa out of poverty within a generation? This is no Chinese propaganda in case anyone is wondering. The World Bank’s criterion for measuring poverty is $1.90 a day. China set a tougher minimum at $2.30. This has been met. China’s Gross Domestic Product has averaged 10% a year since the loosening of the party’s grip on the economy in 1978, prompting more access to health and education so much that China has moved from being a ‘developing’ to an ‘upper-middle income’ country by the standards of international financial institutions. The CCP’s dominant decision-making structure has also been put to bear on China’s impressive curtailment of the COVID-19 pandemic in their country. The intriguing point for us in Nigeria, and Africa, is why our own experiment with one-party rule did not yield benefits. And, whether multiparty ‘democracy’ will, in some future date, bear fruits. First, one-party rule failed in Africa not because of ‘corruption’ and ‘nepotism’ as it is generally assumed; it failed because it was not done on a continent-wide basis. One-party rule could have survived in Ghana and Tanzania, under Kwame Nkrumah and Julius Nyerere, but, it was seen by the continent’s external sponsors as a major threat to international capital order, and had to be crushed by force. Any attempt to shift the posture of the African political economy away from their Western-dependent structure was seen as an existential threat to Western interests. China also suffered from the same Western paranoia about an alternative model for development, but could not be attacked militarily. Without its military prowess and nuclear arsenals, the CCP, and the country’s march towards the summit of the international economic pyramid would have been dealt a hammer blow by the same neo-colonial forces. Furthermore, one-party rule in China is made possible by the fact that its 1.4 billion citizens are (almost) homogenous. They are basically Chinese, culturally, and have adopted one universal language out of many, as lingua franca. Finally, and this is the elephant in the room. Chinese citizens have come to cherish economic prosperity over individual liberties. That is the essence of the Chinese ‘model’. One party rule would work in Africa if the people made a choice to have less say in political decision-making. The Western (liberal) model encourages a more diverse view in governance, not less. This column takes the view that the average African would accept less say in governance in exchange for economic prosperity all day long. That is the debate of the millennium for us in Africa. drtayooke@gmail.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com