TWO Anambra State High Courts sitting in Awka, have in separate judgements ordered the Independent National Electoral Commission to enlist Senator Ugochukwu Uba and Prof Chukwuma Soludo as the governorship candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party and the All Progressives Grand Alliance, respectively, for the November 6, governorship election. INEC had excluded Uba and Soludo from the list of candidates eligible for contest in the polls, citing pending cases in court. However, on Monday, Court 5 of the High Court presided over by Justice Obiora Nwabunike in a matter brought before it by Senator Ugochukwu Uba against Mr Valentine Ozigbo, a factional governorship candidate of the PDP and INEC, said Uba’s faction of the party held its primary election in line with “a subsisting live court judgement, stipulating the guidelines for the exercise.” Nwabunike said submissions by Ozigbo’s lawyers that a primary election of a political party was an internal affair of the party were right but not when there was a court judgment stipulating how the primary election should be conducted. He said, “It’s not for nothing that court judges are called My Lords. When a court makes a pronouncement, it must be obeyed no matter how foolish or ugly anybody thinks it is. “The constitution is supreme; the court is the supremacy. A court can even annul a section of the constitution. That’s how powerful the court is. “So, it’s wrong for the PDP to go ahead to conduct the primary election at the Dora Akunyili Women Development Centre that produced Valentine Ozigbo, with what it called super delegates against a live judgment of a court without overturning the judgment. “That action cannot be vitiated or mitigated by the argument adduced by defence counsel that party primaries are internal affairs of political parties.” The court ordered Ozigbo and PDP to pay N10m to Uba as cost of litigation. Similarly, a High Court presided over by Justice Chukwudi Okaa ordered INEC to enlist Soludo as the candidate of APGA, and drop Chukwudi Umeoji earlier published by the commission. Justice Okaa said Dr Victor Oye, as the authentic National Chairman of APGA, had the right to conduct the primary election of the party and produce/sponsor a candidate of the party in the poll and not the Jude Okeke faction of the party. Meanwhile, the Jude Okeke-led faction of APGA has urged INEC to reject the Court order. The factional chairman made the appeal at a news conference in Abuja on Monday. National Publicity Secretary of the Okeke faction, Ikechukwu Chukwunyere, told journalists that the existing court judgment by a High Court in Jigawa State, was yet to be vacated as such, INEC was duty bound to respect it. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com