IF you are not familiar with the terminologies that come up next, there might be an urgent need to get acquainted with them, especially if you are a parent concerned about the welfare of your family. The slangs include Loud, skunk, brown, gutter juice (omi gutter), Milley, Colorado, Pamilerin, Horse, Brown Sugar, Mary and Joan, Choko, Yoyo, Kush, Blaze, Ndedeko and Bendel Market. There are more and the chief reason to be familiar with them is that these are the street jargon used as substitutes for the hard drugs being consumed in torrents by Nigerian youths. With regard to narcotics addiction, things are depressingly awful among the youth. Worse still, things are deteriorating fast. Apart from the trending notorious case of Chidinma Ojukwu, a 300-Level University of Lagos undergraduate who allegedly admitted to stabbing her date to death under the influence of drugs, millions of Nigerian youths are drowning in an ocean of hard drugs. A comprehensive survey conducted by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime along with critical stakeholders in 2018 stated that the number of drug users in Nigeria rose exponentially to 14.6 million. That is dangerous territory for the country. In percentage terms, the global average rate of drugs abuse is 5.6 per cent, but the National Drugs Law Enforcement Agency said in 2020 that in Nigeria, it had climbed to nearly 15 per cent of adults. This is a national epidemic. As of 2018, Nigeria had 10.6 million cannabis users, the commonest depressant in the world. This figure is huge in comparison to other countries. Indian hemp is widely sold at street corners in Nigeria, aided by complicit security agents who protect the sellers for a fee. Some security agents get high and go berserk occasionally. Nigerian youths are also widely addicted to opioids, ensnared by tramadol, heroin, and other psychoactive drugs. Approximately 92,000 youths are cocaine users. That is scary, but 2.4 million Nigerians depend on cough syrups, 340,000 on ecstasy, 300,000 on solvents and inhalants. Among others, 481,000 abuse tranquilisers and sedatives, and 238,000 use amphetamines and prescription stimulants. Over time, law enforcement has seized container loads of tramadol. Sold across the counter, the common cough syrups are potent among drug addicts. Lizard and rat droppings are similarly valuable companions for the addicts. Broken down by region, narcotics dependence is just too high. The lowest prevalence percentage of 10.0 (1.5 million persons) is found in the North-Central, followed by 12.0 per cent (three million persons) in the North-West, 13.6 per cent (2.09 million persons) in the North-East and 13.8 (1.55 million persons) in the South-East. Not surprisingly, the South-West, which has some of Nigeria’s most urbanised centres, bears a prevalence burden on 22.4 per cent or 4.38 million users. This spells trouble, both now and in the future. It means Nigeria has transformed from transit to a narco-state, just like Venezuela, Honduras, Lebanon, Syria, Mexico, and closer home, Guinea-Bissau. According to the World Drug Report 2021 (by the World Health Organisation), drug abuse leads to 500,000 deaths annually. Of the 269 million illicit drugs users worldwide, 35 million are estimated to be suffering from drug use disorders. Some of these users are into crime; for many others, their lives are a waste. The worst cases of people with substance abuse disorders are found in Iran, Afghanistan, Mongolia, Russia, the United States, and the United Kingdom. Most of the heroin consumed worldwide originates from Afghanistan. The Nigerian authorities are aware of the dangers ahead. Buba Marwa, the Chairman of the NDLEA, links the insurgency, banditry and kidnapping for ransom in the North to drug abuse. In his rare moment of intervention, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), told a World Drugs Day summit that Nigeria’s drugs epidemic is worse than the Islamist insurgency and banditry. Truculent violence is part of this abnormality. Since Marwa assumed office in January, the NDLEA has made huge seizures. In the four months to April, the agency made seizures of 2,050,766.33 kilogrammes of assorted illicit drugs worth N90 billion from 2,175 traffickers. It filed about 2,100 drug cases in court with over 500 convictions. Rather than abate, however, the abuse of drugs is seeping down from the tertiary level to the secondary school level. Both public and private institutions suffer from malaise. It has been exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic, which has shut out many dependents from mainstream medical services. Short of medical experts and facilities, getting treated for drugs dependency is very expensive in Nigeria. Medical experts say it costs between N1 million and N2 million monthly to treat a single addict. Frankly, it is tough for Nigeria to exit this niggle. One, its over-centralised political system poses a huge problem. Over the years, it is only the Federal Government, through the NDLEA, that has established an agency to tackle the illicit trade in drugs. This is scratching the surface. The NDLEA has just about 5,000 officers to cover the country. That needs to change. The Federal Government should boost the staff strength, train, and equip the agents. In particular, the NDLEA should be able to trace the drug barons and bring them to book. State governments too ought to be actively involved by establishing their anti-drugs agencies. They should set up treatment centres for drug-dependent people. By tracing the international trafficking routes as the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control once did with great result, Nigeria can limit the flow of hard drugs into its territory. Faith-based organisations, schools and families are integral in the fight against drugs abuse. They should collaborate with NGOs to drive up and sustain awareness of the lethal effects of narcotics. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com