The Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, on Thursday disclosed that his administration was targeting 2,500 housing units for the people of the state within four years. Abiodun disclosed this during the inauguration of 130 housing units in Kemta, Idi Aba in Abeokuta, the state capital. The housing project, christened Prince Court Estate, is the first phase of the 300 detached and semi-detached of two and three-bedroom structures. Abiodun said although shelter was one of the basic needs of human beings, it had continued to be one of the most expensive assets to own by individuals, adding that his government would harness all resources to provide affordable shelter for the people of Ogun. He said, “This is part of our deliberate approach to ensure that Abeokuta, the capital city of Ogun State, has befitting infrastructure and amenity that will make it stand out as a capital city, not only in Nigeria, but throughout Africa. We are doing this in collaboration with the United Kingdom’s Future Cities Project.” He added that the Gateway Mortgage Bank had been directed to provide the much needed mortgage for subscribers of the housing units. “Your government is determined to provide 2,500 housing units across the state in our first term. This figure is more than all the housing units that all the successive administrations have provided since the creation of our dear state. “We have gone mid-way into actualizing that. A visit to Kobape, Ijebu-Ode, Sagamu, Ilaro and Ota will convince doubting Thomases of our strength of resolve. Earlier in his remarks, the Commissioner for Housing, Jamiu Omoniyi, said the estate, which is in the category of affordable housing was built in 92 days and engaged 5,040 direct labourers drawn from the locality. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com