A former governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha, on Tuesday, asked Governor Hope Uzodimma to stop encroaching on the Eastern Palm University, Ogboko. Okorocha also said the governor had no legal right to rename the institution as the Kingsley Ozumba Mbadiwe University. Okorocha said in a statement by his media aide, Sam Onwuemeodo, that there was no proof that the university was built with funds belonging to the state government. The statement read in part, “Our attention has been drawn to a statement credited to the Imo State Government with the referenced caption, which has gone viral in the media. “And we would be failing in our responsibility, if we do not set the record straight so that nobody would be deceived. “There is no university called Kingsley Ozumba Mbadiwe at Ogboko. What is in Ogboko is the Eastern Palm University owned by the Rochas Foundation and not the Imo State Government. “The Imo State Government has been making some baseless and unsubstantiated claims over the university to the extent of claiming that it has changed its nomenclature to the Kingsley Ozumba Mbadiwe University. “We had earlier written to remind the government that the name of a university, with legal status, cannot be changed with a resolution at a cabinet meeting. “The cases concerning the fate of the university have been going on in courts of competent jurisdiction and that the university is also one of the items being investigated by the EFCC. “Recently, owing to the constant harassment of the students and invasion of the university by agents of the state government vis-à-vis, the cases in court, concerning the university, the Rochas Foundation ordered for the temporary closure of the university and told the students to leave, pending the determination of the cases in court. All these had taken place. “The Imo State Government was also expected to toe the path of peace and civility by stopping further encroachment on the university and further inflammatory actions and utterances until the courts decide on the fate of the university and the EFCC also makes public the outcome of its investigation.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com