Celebrities, fans and many other Nigerians have continued to mourn as popular singer, Olanrewaju Fasasi, aka Sound Sultan, who died on Sunday. He was scheduled to be buried at 9pm (Nigerian time) on Sunday at the Marlboro Muslim Cemetery, 340, Spring Valley Road Morganville NJ, Brooklyn, New York,  where he died. Earlier, a prayer was held in his memory in Festac, Lagos, where he lived for many years. The singer, rapper and songwriter died after a battle with lymphoma. A statement by Dr Kayode Fasasi reads, “It is with heavy hearts that we announce the passing of multitalented veteran singer, rapper and songwriter, Olanrewaju Fasasi, aka Sound Sultan. He passed away at the age of 44 following a hard fought battle with angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma. He is survived by his wife, three children and his siblings. We, his family, will appreciate the utmost privacy as we come to grips with this tragic loss.” It was reported in May that the singer was ‘battling with cancer’ in a hospital in New York. Among those who paid tribute to the late musician on Sunday was the Oyo State Governor, Seyi Makinde. The governor, in a statement by his Special Assistant (Print Media), Moses Alao, said, “From afar, Sound Sultan cuts the figure of a well-bred young man, who achieved stardom by dint of hard work and managed to remain relevant without falling to the entrapments of fame and youthful exuberance. “In him, Oyo State lost a truly great but humble artiste and ambassador. We lost an individual who tried his best to positively impact his society through entertainment.” Veteran actor, Richard Mofe-Damijo, who recently turned 60, wrote on Instagram, “Did you know when you wished me ‘happy birthday’ three days earlier than usual that you won’t have the strength to do it a day later? Words would never be enough my brother. Love you, man!” Singer, Peter Okoye, aka Mr P, also wrote on Instagram, “I can’t hold these tears. Forever in our hearts.” Actress, Iyabo Ojo, wrote, “When I thought today was all about making people smile, then I got this rude shocking news…I will forever cherish … all your amazing works.” In a tribute posted on Facebook, showbiz personality and Chief Executive Officer of Nigezie TV, Femi Aderibigbe, aka Kwame, wrote, “From dust we were formed and to dust we shall return. Rest in peace, Fasasi Olanrewaju, better known as Sound Sultan. To say ‘this one weak me’ is an understatement! You lived an exceptional and exemplary life. Good night bro.” Also, the international executive committee of the All African Music Awards on Sunday said Sound was a prime example of a shining star and a powerful voice of African music. In a statement by its President and executive producer, Mike Dada, AFRIMA  said, “It is said that the circle of life is completed in death, but it says nothing about the grief that comes with the finality of it. Sound Sultan was a pioneer of contemporary African music and we are completely devastated at this loss.” Sound Sultan was married to Farida Fasasi (whose maiden name was ChiChi Morah), and had with three children. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com