The Chairman of the All Progressives Congress in Ekiti State, Paul Omotoso, on Thursday urged youths in Ekiti State to participate in the ongoing Independent National Electoral Commission Continuous Voter Registration for them to take part in the choice of leaders in 2022 and 2023 elections. Omotoso spoke at the party’s state secretariat in Ado Ekiti while receiving an APC youth advocacy group, Pentagon Movement Group. He said that since youths occupied an important place in any democracy. He said, “Your voter card is your power to ensure continuity of the good government we have been witnessing at the state and federal levels”. The party chairman, who lauded the leadership of the group for its ingenuity, said that the rally would boost the support base and development of the party in the state. Speaking earlier, the PMG State Coordinator, Ademola Ilesanmi,  corroborated Omotoso on the need for youths to register for voter cards. He urged the young population “to leave the social media and participate actively in governance and politics”. Ilesanmi said, “The peaceful rally tagged, ‘Ekiti Continuity Agenda’ led by the PMG National Coordinator, Babajide Akeredolu, was held to launch the group in the state and drum support for the success of APC in next year’s governorship election in the state.” He said the group was launched in Ekiti to give the youth, the  voice and strength and to ensure that, “they take their rightful place in governance in Ekiti State.” He said, “The youths have a great role to play in the entrenchment of democracy in the country. The youthful population when deployed rightly can influence the outcome of the governorship poll in the state. Ilesanmi said that the achievements of the Dr Kayode Fayemi administration would be properly sustained if the ruling APC retained power after the election next year. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com