SECURITY aides of the Speaker of the Imo State House of Assembly, Paul Emezim, on Thursday shot into the air to disperse lawmakers from approaching their principal following a rowdy session in the house. Trouble started after the speaker convened an emergency session where he announced the indefinite suspension of the minority leader, Anyadike Nwosu (PDP), and five other lawmakers for what he called “unparliamentary conduct.” Those suspended along with the minority leader, included: the immediate past majority leader, Uche Ogbuagu, (Ikeduru, APC), Onyemaechi Njoku (Ihitte- Uboma, APC), Kennedy Ibeh, (Obowo, APC), Philip Ejiogu, (Owerri North, PDP) and Dominic Ezerioha (Oru West, APC). Emezim also dissolved all standing committees of the and removed the Chief Whip, Author Erwin, (Ideate North, APC), replacing him with Obinna Okwara (Nkwerre, APC). The situation led to a rowdy session with several lawmakers leaving their seats, sensing danger, security personnel attached to the speaker formed a protective ring around him while firing shots in the air before whisking him to safety. One of the suspended lawmakers, Ibeh, said, “We got a message from the Clerk of the House that there would be an emergency meeting today (Thursday) having adjourned till July 14, on Wednesday. “We got to the complex by 10am but we didn’t see the speaker. We kept waiting until the speaker came and we moved into the chambers and signed the attendance register. “The speaker immediately, without recourse to the rules of the house, announced the dissolution of all standing committees of the house and removal of the Chief Whip. He further announced, Obinna Okwara, in his place.” “The Speaker said that the decision was taken at the executive session of the house, whereas there was no executive session. A lawmaker, Onyemaechi Njoku, stood on the special privileges rule of the house, but the speaker shut him down. I also rose to talk but he didn’t allow me to speak. “He abandoned the rules of the house and imported his own. Other lawmakers raised concerns but the speaker didn’t care. At the end, he announced that he had suspended the six of us for unparliamentary conducts. “I don’t know what that means because he also suspended Philip Ejiogu and two others who were not present at the plenary for unparliamentary conducts. I don’t know what that means.” Asked about his next line of action, Ibeh said, “Talking about political resolution, I am a member of the APC and the governor is the leader of the party in the state. “I will wait for an opportunity to have that opportunity with the governor so that I will tell my own side of the story. But talking about legal redress, that is not within my consideration for now.” A media aide to the Speaker, Chukeudi Osuji, told our correspondent that the suspension of the lawmakers was indefinite. Our correspondent gathered that the suspended lawmakers recently complained on their WhatsApp platform that they had yet to receive some of their entitlements. They were also said to have demanded a meeting with the state governor, a request the leadership of the house allegedly refused. Shortly afterwards, the member representing Ihitte-Uboma state constituency, Onyemaechi Njoku (APC), declared that the speaker lacked the powers to suspend him. He said, “My take is that, I was not suspended. There was nothing like that. You can’t suspend the good people of Ihitte-Uboma state constituency. It is not in line with the law and moreover, there is a supreme court judgment which barred speakers from suspending lawmakers. Similarly, Arthur Egwim (APC Ideato North) added that the Speaker did not follow the proper procedure in removing him as Chief Whip. Uche Ogbuagu (APC Ikeduru) maintained that no executive session was held as the members had been waiting for the Speaker to announce the venue for the executive session. Mrs. Ngozi Obiefule (APC Isu) added that every request to know the venue of the purported executive session on the House Whatsapp platform was not responded to. Meanwhile, the state chapter of the All Progressives Congress has sued for peace. Cajetan Duke, the state Publicity Secretary of the party said this in an interaction with newsmen in Owerri while reacting to the suspension of the lawmakers. Duke, who described the assembly as an independent organ of government called on the suspended lawmakers to desist from acts capable of jeopardizing their public image and that of the legislative House. Responding to the events of the day state Publicity Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party, Ogubundu Nwadike, said, “The arbitrary suspension of the minority leader, Anyadike Nwosu, who is the leader of the PDP caucus in the house by the speaker is undemocratic. It is not acceptable to us as a party. The parliament does not belong to the speaker nor APC. It belongs to all Imo people and it is one of the symbols of our democracy.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com