One smart way to generate new words is through blending. This is a process of forming another word by combining portions of two existing ones. Usually involved are the first part of the first word and the last part of the other. In what looks like a cut-and-join scheme, you slash a part of the term, slash a part of another and then join the cuts to produce a meaningful new term. In other words, you blend the portions you remove from the older words. A relatively popular example is ‘brunch’, generated from breakfast and lunch. The idea is that of a meal you have in-between breakfast and lunch. Consider ‘camcorder’ too. Have you ever bothered to scrutinise the components of the word? You think it is a ‘natural’ expression? No, it is a product of blending, resulting from the mating of parts of camera and recorder: camcorder. Based on this analysis, and according to various experts, other examples include motel (motor car + hotel), docudrama (documentary + drama), sitcom (situation + comedy), biopic (biography + picture), sportscast (sports + broadcast), smog (smoke + fog), edutainment (education + entertainment), infotainment (information + entertainment), spork (spoon + fork), frenemy (friend + enemy), and workaholic (work + alcoholic). The diversification the world is experiencing in the area of entrepreneurship and technology is also breeding new blends. The word that comes to mind here is ‘techpreneur’, from technology and entrepreneur. I am sure that the field of technology is so rich that further blends are more than a possibility. Imagine getting somewhere and introducing yourself as a digipreneur. In that case, you are taking the tail of ‘digital’, adding it to the head of ‘entrepreneur’, giving us a new trendy term. That is what blending does for language. What then are the advantages of this word formation pattern? First, it helps in the expansion of the vocabulary of English – and any other language it is in use. Second, it helps in making expressions more compact. Instead of using two or more words, you opt for one, which now gives you more than a meaning. Three, it seems to make language smarter because it shows creativity. Four, it may help in euphemistic and sarcastic usages. For instance, instead of calling someone a commercial sex worker (or the more derogative ‘prostitute’), you can say she (or he) is a sexpreneur. The structure of this example, however, shows that a blend can be a whole word plus a part of another – and vice versa. This is what we also have in ‘lovepreneur’ (love + entrepreneur) and sportscast (sports plus broadcast). There is an artiste friend of mine (Tunde Obajeun) who recently produced an album titled ‘Executhief’. That is blending at work: Executive +thief. And if you are living in a society where some lawmakers are considered thieves, you can capture the idea with a blend like legislathieves. NOTE: For your blend to be acceptable, it must be semantically and grammatically meaningful and sensible. It must match the context. If it is one arbitrarily generated, you should make the context define it or you consciously do so in your speech or writing. Of course, you should not indulge in vulgarity. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com