Minority Leader of the House of Representatives, Ndudi Elumelu, has said government of the All Progressives Congress is failing, adding that the ruling party will leave power after the tenure of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Elumelu, who is representing Aniocha/Oshimili Federal Constituency in Delta state at the House, said this at an event organised by the House of Reps’ Press Corps in Abuja on Monday. The Minority Leader said, “When my people brought me in, to represent their interest, what was uppermost in my heart was to represent them and I also made a vow not to touch anything that belongs to them, either by way of constituency allowance or by way of constituency project. So, all I did was to ensure that up to the last kobo that I get from the National Assembly is given back to them because they brought me here to represent their interest. “I was brought up to always look at the critical aspect of life and not making noise. If you make noise that is not reasonable and quality criticism, then it is of no use. If you watch me on the floor, I come out to speak when I think it is critical to speak, not just because I want to make noise. “If you recall when they said some people were defecting and I came out and said it is not about quoting Section 68 to challenge the defection, but it is to let Nigerians know that the APC government has failed. And because they have failed, it is immaterial who is defecting. What is important is that the government is failing. The government has not even given accurate information as to what they have done.” He added, “Imagine, in my constituency, somebody said Ogwashi-Uku Dam had been completed whereas it had not. And people are defecting to such voodoo government? When the time for evaluation comes, people are going to look at those things. We don’t like making noise. By the time those who are going to move, move, you will see that APC is going to be left with nothing and APC will end after Buhari. “They are not coordinated; they are not organised; they are not out to serve the people. They are there to worship the current President and once the President leaves, that is the end of APC.” Several members of the House have defected from the Peoples Democratic Party, Elumelu’s party, to the APC.