A commercial motorcyclist, well known as okada rider, Denis Nwambam, has been arrested for the alleged murder of a tricycle rider, Wasiu Osinowo, in the Matogun area of Ogun State. Nwambam reportedly stabbed Osinowo to death in a fight over right of way while they were both plying the road around 11pm on Wednesday. City Round learnt that Nwambam and Osinowo had struggled over right of way, leading to an exchange of words. Some minutes later, Osinowo was said to have flagged down Nwambam along the road and challenged him to a duel during which the latter stabbed him in the stomach. He reportedly bled to death. It was gathered that the police at the Agbado division were alerted to the incident and the Divisional Police Officer, CSP Kuranga Yero, led a team to the scene to arrest the suspect. On Thursday, some angry youths reportedly took Osinowo’s corpse to the police station and demanded that Nwambam be released to them. A resident, Deji Gabriel, told our correspondent that it took the intervention of some elders in the community to prevail on the protesters. He said, “The deceased’s friends protested at the station. They brought his corpse and demanded that the suspect should be released to them. It was a community leader called Fatai Asiwaju and others who pacified them. They later left with the corpse.” Narrating what transpired that night, Nwambam, a 36-year-old father of three, admitted to have stabbed Osinowo but said it was not intentional. He said, “The man (Osinowo) and I were coming from the same direction. He was riding a tricycle while I was riding a motorcycle. He nearly hit me and I cautioned him to keep to his lane. We exchanged words and parted ways. I didn’t know he and his friends had gone to lay in ambush for me. “As I approached the spot where they were, they descended on me and beat me up. I abandoned my bike and fled. They chased me to a bar and I picked up a knife to defend myself. I just held the knife. He wanted to get hold of me when the knife struck him in the stomach. That was what happened.” Also, police have commenced investigation to unravel the death of an engineer working at a rail construction site along Agbado Crossing, Ogun State. The deceased, identified only as Ifeanyi, was reportedly electrocuted inside a bar run by his lover, Ngozi Dibo, on Wednesday night. Dibo, 39, who also resides in the bar, told City Round that she was ill that night and was asleep when she was woken up by Ifeanyi’s scream. She said, “He was even the one who covered me with a piece of cloth. As he was inside, he picked a drink from my stock. I told him he had taken enough at work and shouldn’t drink more. He begged me and I slept off. “Suddenly, I heard a noise which woke me up. It was around 12am and power was just restored. I saw him electrocuted while trying to plug a wire. I rushed out and called for help.” The single mother of two said she and Ifeanyi got into a relationship about three months ago, adding that the children didn’t live with her. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, who confirmed the two incidents, said investigations had commenced. He said, “There was a misunderstanding between the tricycle rider and the motorcyclist. The suspect has been arrested and transferred to the homicide section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department. “In the other incident, the woman told us that the man was electrocuted but we will carry out investigation to verify her claim.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com