THE Peoples Democratic Party and All Progressives Congress in Imo state are at daggers’ drawn over the suspension of six lawmakers of the state House of Assembly by the Speaker, Paul Emeziem. While the PDP accused the governor of the state, Hope Uzodimma, of interfering in the activities of the state legislature, the APC warned the opposition party not to drag the governor into the activities of the state assembly. At a press conference in Owerri, the state capital, the opposition party alleged that Uzodimma had eroded democracy in the state. The PDP state secretary in the state, Ray Emeana, who spoke to journalists on behalf of the party said that APC lawmakers were intimidating and suppressing PDP lawmakers on the influence of the governor. The party scribe said, “We note with dismay that Governor Uzodimma has eroded the democratic principles of separation of powers and checks and balances, arrogating to himself the combined power and authority over all the arms of government. “This party sees that action of unlawful suspension as highly undemocratic and totally unacceptable. Governor Uzodimma should allow democratic best practices to blossom and flourish in Imo state. “For the avoidance of doubt, the Peoples Democratic Party, Imo state executive committee, having fully deliberated this development states that Imo PDP is happy with the quality of representation of the members of Imo state House of Assembly of PDP extraction. Imo PDP hereby passes absolute and implicit vote of confidence on PDP members of the Imo state House of Assembly. “Imo PDP is adequately persuaded that it is not normal to suspend people before constituting a panel to hear their own account of the charges levelled against them. Having said that, we charge the speaker, Imo state House of Assembly to do the needful and restore the Imo lawmakers that he unilaterally suspended without recourse to rule of law and due process, violating the codes of ethics and conduct of the house. “That is about the only way to douse the tension that has been mounting since the unlawful suspension was announced. A stitch in times saves nine. Responding, the Director General of APC new media centre in the state, Cajetan Duke, said that PDP in the state had lost track and sense of direction. The APC chieftain said, “We have observed with great concern the penchant with which the leadership of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party drags the name of the governor, His Excellency Distinguished Senator Hope Uzodimma as well as our great party APC into their political misfortune. “It is obvious that the leadership of the opposition PDP has completely lost track and sense of direction, hence it’s proclivity to blame games and name calling.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com