THE Osun Progressives, a pressure group within the All Progressives Congress, have accused unnamed appointees of the State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, of manipulating the recently concluded All Progressives Congress membership registration/revalidation exercise in the state. The group which is made up of supporters of the Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, said this in a press conference in Osogbo on Thursday. Chairman of the group, Adeolowo Adebiyi, called on the national leadership of the party to cancel the exercise arguing that “only members belonging to the Governor’s group, Ileri Oluwa, had opportunity to register.” He also claimed that rather than submitting an already compiled list to the APC National Headquarters, some aides of the governor tinkered with the register at the Government House. Adebiyi said members of his group were ready for the party congress, he charged APC National Caretaker committee to deploy only trustworthy officers, stressing that this would ensure a level playground for all contending interests, adding that the list of members must also be displayed before the congress. Asked how the registration was hijacked and manipulated, the Secretary, APC Caretaker Committee in the state, Razaq Salinsile, said, “Concerning the party registration when materials were coming from Abuja, ordinarily and expectedly, it should be delivered at the party secretariat; and who head the party secretariat, I head it. The chairman is the administrative head. “I should take delivery of the materials at the party secretariat and it should be there for onward distribution to various local governments through the party chairmen in our various local governments but that was not the case. It was delivered at the Government House for whatever reasons. “Funnily enough, I got a hint of what was coming and I listed it. By the time they brought the materials and they started distributing, I found out that the number of forms they distributed did not tally with the number that came from Abuja. “Ordinarily, the party chairmen in various local government areas traditionally and statutory should be in charge of distribution and everything that has to do with the registration of materials but it was not done that way. The cabinet members, the commissioners, the special adviser of Mr Governor were used to distribute these materials.” While responding to the allegations, Osun State Commissioner for Political Affairs and Intergovernmental Relations, Taiwo Akeju, said all party stakeholders were involved when the registration team arrived from Abuja for the exercise. He denied allegations that the process was compromised. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com