Rivers Angels coach Edwin Okon believes Hasaacas Ladies FC of Ghana will provide a stern test for his side ahead of their 2021 CAF Women’s Champions League zonal qualifiers, but is hopeful they will qualify from the group, The PUNCH reports. Reigning Nigeria Women Football League champions Angels were drawn alongside Hasaacas Ladies FC of Ghana and AS Police de Niamey from Niger in Group B last week. The 2021 CAF Women’s Champions League zonal qualifiers are billed to hold from July 17 to 30 in Abidjan, Ivory Coast. “Hasaacas Ladies have been active lately than we’ve been but we will be fully prepared and from my experience, football is not arithmetic like some of you think,” Okon told The PUNCH. “We haven’t played enough quality friendly matches before now but what we’ve been doing here is good enough as well. We are doing all we can to put the girls in the right frame of mind for the tournament and shape going forward. The girls have been training for a while now and we’ve had a couple of games lined up to prepare them, so we are good to go. Our aim is to qualify for the finals of the zonal qualifiers.” Rivers Angels’ opening game will be against Hasaacas on July 17, before taking on AS Police de Niamey from Niger three days later. Angels captain Catherine Kenneth told CAFonline, “It is a good draw. I have a strong belief that it is favourable. Our objective is to be on top of the table and to treat every game as the final. This is not an opportunity to outshine any team but an opportunity to leave a positive mark on the sands of time and qualify for the CAF Women’s Champions League proper.” The top two teams from each group proceed to the semi-finals, with the winners qualifying for the inaugural CAF Women’s Champions League in Egypt. Meanwhile, the Rivers Angels will on Tuesday (today) undergo COVID-19 screening in as they prepare to depart the country for Abidjan, the team’s media officer, Jessica Amadi, confirmed on Monday. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com