Most couples make their marriage vows with the purpose to live happily ever after together and not with the slightest prospect that they will someday have to walk away from each other. When you consider the experiences in your first marriage, you might become anxious and cautious about moving into a new relationship especially when your children are struggling to adjust to their new life with their single mother, father, or co-parenting. Nevertheless, if you are prepared to embark on a new relationship, you must ensure that you and your children are emotionally healthy and ready for a fresh start. Communicate your needs One of the challenges of being a single parent is that you may not have control over how your children adjust to their new life. However, you have control of building up your own resilience so that you can turn a difficult situation into a positive one for all concerned. Understanding yourself and needs is crucial at this time and getting the children to understand that you are ready to let someone else into your life will not make you less of a mother or father. It is the natural thing to do and carrying them along can be a good advantage too. It is also possible for the children to have divided opinions on this matter, in particular the reality of sharing their beloved parent with someone else but when you encourage them to share their worries and fears with you, it will help them build up the strength to cope with changing situations. Treasure the relationship Children are the most vulnerable when dealing with family dynamics like separation and divorce which can be devastating for them. Changes are certainly inevitable even though accepting it can be hard at first and when a parent leaves, children will often feel a deep sense of loss and emotional deprivation. It is natural for your children to resist change because the feeling of bitterness, anger, guilt, fear, betrayal, and emotional disconnection may obscure their minds. Most children find their parents’ decision to move on as selfish and irrational but when you both have a good understanding that separating is in everybody’s best interest, you will be able to eliminate the fears of uncertainty your children may be feeling. When your children know that they can continue to enjoy the bond they have built with both parents, they are more likely to validate your own intention to move on and give your new relationships a seal of approval. Separate feelings from expectations It is important to pay attention to your children’s feelings and their responses when you formally inform them of your intention to start a new relationship. Learn to separate their feelings from your own expectations of them even if you believe that they may be acting in their own selfish interest. Remember that they have come out of a distressing situation which can have an impact on their ability to trust or believe that someone else can love and treat you better. The most obvious feeling now is ‘fear’that some stranger has come to take their mother or father away from them. Validate their feelings and reassure them that you are wiser, stronger, and capable of navigating the course of this new journey together. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com