“We categorically affirm that the North will not be stampeded or blackmailed into taking major decisions around rotating the presidency.” – Abdulazeez Suleiman, spokesperson, Coalition of Northern Groups, Tuesday, July 6, 2021. The tone and tenor of the opening quotation, credited to the Coalition of Northern Groups, indicates the tempo of the emerging debate on the decisions taken at the Southern Governors’ Forum meeting held in Lagos a few days ago. Unsurprisingly, the matter that has generated the most heat and controversy is that which pertains to the power shift from North to South in the 2023 presidential election. Although it is a bit early in the day, the southern governors may have their reasons or apprehensions which caused them to wade into the matter in the forceful manner in which they did. Normally, there is nothing new or unprecedented about a meeting across parties of southern governors, given that there already exists a motley of such groups, spanning the North, which meet and take positions on national issues from time to time. That said, the semiotics and circumstances of the meeting of the southern governors -their second in recent months- speak to the national condition in a vehement manner and should be regarded as an important intervention on the destiny of Nigeria. It is interesting that several northern groups have called the forum “a gang-up” against the North, although it is not clear whether their focus was necessarily the North rather than the presidency. This point is made in the context of the rapid rebuttal delivered by the presidency to the decisions of the governors after their last meeting at Asaba, Delta State. In particular, their decision on banning open grazing. It is worthwhile to recall that the presidency debunked the decision to ban open grazing notwithstanding that the Northern Elders’ Forum had voiced a similar opinion. It did not help matters that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), called for the revisiting of old grazing routes which he claimed are mentioned in some colonial gazettes. The southern governors, brushing aside that perspective, have gone ahead to give a deadline of September 1 this year for their state assemblies to make the ban on open grazing a legal reality. Virtually everybody these days have bought into the idea of ranching as a modern improvement of an industrial nature superior to the open grazing which has brought a lot of sorrow, deaths and arson in many Nigerian communities. Talking about nuances, the unity of the southern governors is virtually unprecedented in Nigerian history, as this columnist does not recall, aside from the June 12 struggle, any other time when southern political leaders threw aside their never-ending conflicts to speak with a strong voice on topical issues. Their unity, perhaps temporary, in our opinion, underlies the seriousness and gravity of the hour looking at such burning issues as cascading insecurity bordering on ethnic cleansing in some parts of the country, the uncertainty surrounding the 2023 elections, the continuing insurgency in the North-East, the failure of an over-centralised police to effectively handle the growing banditry as well as the strong-arm tactics employed recently to deal with agitators for national self-determination. For example, many, including this writer, opposed to secession, at least in the first instance, were alarmed at the iron fist used to invade the house of Mr. Sunday Adeyemo, better known as Sunday Igboho, in Ibadan. In other words, what we may call the centre which allows for a meeting of minds and negotiations is fast disappearing as intolerance and extreme methods seize the centre stage. In an earlier write-up, I made a point that for the presidency to remain an arbiter in national affairs, it must be seen as a disinterested umpire and nonpartisan broker that can be trusted by all the sides of ethnic and religious divides. It is doubtful if that advice was taken as narrow views and prejudices about serious matters continue to be published, regrettably on issues that require even-handedness. Regarding the rotation of the presidency, there is logic and precedence in the opinion of the southern governors that after an eight-year presidency by the North, a southerner should naturally be allowed to occupy the position. However, that cannot be brought about by mere resolution as it is a decision to be taken by the political parties and, ultimately, by the people of Nigeria. That notwithstanding, the moral effect of the resolution cannot be brushed aside, and it is obvious that it is being taken seriously judging from the debate and fire-for-fire response that have so far accompanied it. There are unspoken matters and muffled voices in all of these, but some of them are already being voiced on national television. For example, on Channels TV’s Sunrise Daily programme, one of the invited speakers, Dr. Katch Ononuju, went to great lengths to describe the frustration of Nigerians with what he called the activities of Fulani militia especially in places like Benue, Plateau, southern Kaduna, Taraba, Delta, Oyo, among others; where swathes of people have either been displaced, killed or dispossessed because of the ravenous search for grazing land. Indeed, Igboho came to the limelight as a hero fighting for communities in the Ibarapa area of Oyo State which had repeatedly borne the brunt of these clashes and murderous conflicts. The feeling in some quarters is that the attitude of the Buhari regime to the escalating mayhem and murders in these areas has either been lukewarm or negligent to the point where some of these communities were feeling desperately unprotected and left to their own devices. The growing clamour for secession may be questionable, but it must be understood as a response partly to the perceived incompetence or alleged collusion of those whose duties are the defence of Nigerians, no matter where they are located, from invaders or attackers. The southern governors cannot be expected to support secession since they were elected to office on the platform of a united Nigeria; their call for state police, however, suggests that the idea of a centralised police has been overworked and carried to an illogical and absurd conclusion. Understandably too, the recent affray at Igboho’s house, presumably without the knowledge of the state governor, may have led to their indirect condemnation of the growing practice of security officials going over the heads and behind the backs of the chief security officers of the states to carry out daring raids. That is to say, the security architecture, apart from its top-heavy nature, may have been mismanaged in such a way as to raise doubts concerning the motives of those appointed to man it. In a context of growing distrust, recent activities in the direction of maintaining law and order may be read in some quarters as partisan attempts to disempower certain groups in order to clear the way for their possible dispossession. Of course, to get back to that point, a southern president cannot emerge without substantial support from the North just as Buhari would not have been President had he not received strategic and material support from the South, in particular, the South-West. What the southern governors have done is to stake and state a position which requires negotiation and consensus-seeking among the parties and political constituencies. Ayo_olukotun@yahoo.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com