I did two visitations, recently. One was a condolence visit and the other was a hospital visit. In both cases, the affected were MEN! The lamentation of the widow of the deceased was that she married a man that never listened to her. She narrated how she noticed that he looked particularly unwell and pleaded he took a rest (from his numerous engagements) but he brushed her concerns aside. A few hours later, she received a call that her husband was ill and already hospitalized, unknown to her that she was being cajoled to come behold his lifeless body before he’s transferred to the morgue. It was a cardiac arrest. It’s difficult not to wonder where the boldness of ANY MAN (or even woman) in Nigeria today, who doesn’t do constant blood pressure and sugar level monitoring, comes from. Many kidney and liver issues all over the place and the lamentation is “but he doesn’t drink.” Doctors are warning that uncontrolled blood pressure also brings down those organs. “He doesn’t listen to me/he won’t listen,” is a lamentation I hear from many women about their husbands. Yet, the outcome of that “not listening” is always a disaster. Is there really anything that is not an issue in this part of the world, especially in marriages? I never knew it’s a sign of BEING A MAN to not listen even to what is for your own good. During the hospital visit, I met some women and didn’t hesitate to encourage them to “up” the efforts in the care of their men. If you were not fussing about his diet and healthcare practices, please begin to do so today. Leave the “buy-buy” for a while and get a blood pressure monitor, instead. These stressful times are taking a toll on MEN’s health more. BE HIS NURSE AND NUTRITIONIST as much as possible. Help him live long for you. Life is NEVER the same when they are no more. And widowhood is not a walk in the park. I work closely with widows, so I know. The average widow in this part of the world has seen sadder than happy days. Sometimes, such sadness is occasioned by the attitude of others reminding you of your loss and other times, it’s just life-hitting uncomfortably different. The saying that, ‘‘you don’t know what you have until it’s gone’’ is an undeniable truth. There’s also the fulfillment that comes from knowing you genuinely gave the best of you to a spouse. Many men have died with economic engagements that could have tremendously uplifted their family, because they never carried their wife (who would have known where to look for what in the case of an eventuality) along. Could it be that it’s lost on us that most people here WILL NOT step forward with what’s yours, if you are no more? They will thank God for ‘providing for them.’ Brothers, I don’t understand the secrecy. Do your children deserve the hardship you might be plunging them into? Always approach these issues with the “uncertainty of tomorrow” in mind. A man in his prime just left behind three children and an unemployed widow, who knows NOT where to look for any of the many assets he’s said to have. Sometimes, see these issues NOT as “gist to entertain” but life using others’ experience to WARN you. I admire that even people that one hasn’t communicated with in ages strive to reach out once there’s bereavement. It just would be more life-enhancing if it isn’t that finality (death) that prompts such ‘care’ in us. How about reaching out to whoever crosses your mind henceforth? You never know what life is trying to tell you. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com