Youths under the aegis of Southern Kaduna Peoples Union, on Saturday, stormed Unity Fountain, in Abuja, to demand an end to the incessant killings and abductions in the state. The youths, who defied the heavy presence of the police to stage their peaceful protest, said they could no longer bear the level of insecurity in the southern part of the state. Speaking during the protest, the National Youth Leader of the SOKAPU, John Isaac, said the level of insecurity in Southern Kaduna had degenerated into a case of genocide. Isaac said, “What we had before was mistrust among the people; what we are having now is a genocide. A lot are in captivity. Many have been killed. Our people cannot go to their farms. They can’t sleep with their eyes closed. How long will this continue? The primary function of the government is security. When it fails, then the people would be forced to defend themselves. “Despite the special forces deployed to the state, people are still being killed. From 2015 till date, we have not heard about the prosecution of bandits. We will not stop protesting. We want to live; our lives matter.” Another protester, Jane Thomas-Rogers, who cried as she spoke, said, “We cannot sleep in Southern Kaduna. Governor (Nasir) el-Rufai, you need to stand up to your responsibility and protect lives and properties. For how long will this continue? We are tired of this; the killing must end. Before now, kidnapping had been around Abuja Road, but as we speak, it has moved to Southern Kaduna. “We can’t go to Southern Kaduna. Recently, my cousin was kidnapped and we had to pay a ransom for his release. Right now, there is a protest going on and you can see security men all over but when there is killing and kidnapping, you won’t see any of them. The international community and our government are sleeping. it is happening in Southern Kaduna today; it may spread to other parts if action is not taken.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com