The Federal Government has inaugurated a 10-man committee to resolve the dispute between the Kaduna State Government and the Nigerian Labour Congress with a charge to the members to meet the expectation of the  President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), by ensuring that industrial peace returns to Kaduna shortly. The committee, set up by the Minister of Labour and Employment, Senator Chris Ngige in Abuja, is headed by the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, Dr Peter Tarfa, with the Secretary to Kaduna State Government, Balarabe Lawal and Deputy National President of NLC, Najim Hashim, as co-chairmen. The Director Trade Union Services and Industrial Relations, Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment, Mrs O. U. Akpan, will serve as the secretary. This was contained in a statement on Saturday by the ministry’s spokesman,  Mr Charles Akpan, titled,  ‘FG inaugurates committee to end Kaduna Govt, NLC dispute.’ The Kaduna State Government and the NLC had been at loggerheads following the sacking of over 40,000 workers by the state government Speaking at the ceremony on Friday, Ngige recalled that the Federal Government had apprehended the strike initiated by the NLC in Kaduna State in May, with the parties signing a memorandum of understanding to restore  peace, noting that  intervening circumstances made the reconstitution of the committee inevitable . According to him, the committee was expected  to resolve all the  issues in  dispute between the Kaduna State Government and the NLC. Also speaking, the Kaduna State SSG, Lawal,  gave assurance of the state government for the restoration of industrial harmony, adding that Kaduna State was not at war with Labour. In his remarks, the President of NLC, Ayuba Wabba said the organised labour was committed to the resolution of the impasse in Kaduna State. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com