The Federal Government has said that the proposed Funtua, Katsina State Integrated Textile and Garment Park, will create at least 70,000 jobs for Nigerians when it becomes fully operational. The Director General of the Nigeria Export Processing Zone, Adesoji Adesugba, said this this during a handing over ceremony of Certificate of Occupancy for the site of the Integrated Textile and Garment Park and Special Economic Zone by the Director General, Katsina State Investment Promotion Agency, Alhaji Ibrahim Jikamshi, in Abuja, on Tuesday. Adesugba explained that so far, the Federal Government has spent 500 million on the project, adding that the project would be completed in 18 months. He said, “Currently the government has already expended N500m in that particular zone. “As regards timeframe, we believe that within the next 18 months we will be ready for investors to start choosing the zone. “In terms of job creation, for the business model we have planned, we believe that the direct jobs of about 10,000 will be created when the project is fully implemented and about 60,000 indirect Jobs will be created in the locality and environs, and this has a great multiplier effect when it comes to textile and we believe that this is the right place to site it. “We expect traction because the people that are going to drive the implementation are serious. “The FG is also supporting us so we see no reason why we should not deliver on time.” He noted that the project would attract huge investment once fully implemented. The NEPZA boss urged other states to emulate Katsina with regards to partnering with relevant stakeholders to facilitate industrialisation and development in the country, adding that the Federal Government was willing to support any state that was craving for development. On his part, the DG of KSIP announced that the state was partnering with NEPZA and the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation to create medical economic zones within the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com