The police in Katsina State have killed a bandits’ leader identified as Abdullahi Banmi and rescued a 65-year-old kidnap victim, Hajiya Hassana Zubairu in Jigawa State. The spokesman for the state police command, SP Gambo Isah, confirmed the development on Friday, revealing that the incident happened on Thursday. It was learnt that a gang of seven bandits, armed with weapons, had in the early hours of June 29, 2021, stormed Rijiyar Samiya village, Sandamu Local Government Area of Katsina State and kidnapped Hajiya Zubairu from her residence. The bandits were said to have demanded N500m ransom. Her son, Rabiu Zubairu, said the ransom was later negotiated to N2.7m which had not been paid. Our correspondent gathered that operatives of the anti-kidnapping unit of the state police command were however able to trace the kidnap victim to Gallu Hamlet in the Yankwashi Local Government Area of neighbouring Jigawa State where they, in collaboration with their Jigawa State colleagues, rescued her and killed the bandits leader trying to escape with her during a gun battle. The operatives consequently moved the corpse of the bandits’ leader and the rescued kidnap victim to the Katsina police headquarters on Thursday evening. Isah said, “On  15/07/2021 at about 13:30hrs, based on credible intelligence, a combined team of police detectives, led by O/C Anti-Kidnapping, busted and raided kidnappers hideout at Gallu hamlet, Yankwashi LGA of Jigawa state, engaged the bandits in a gun duel, killed the gang leader of the syndicate one Abdullahi Banmi, ‘M’, aged 50, arrested two suspected members of the syndicate – one Nana Ado, (female) aged 35yrs and Ibrahim Idi (male) aged 22yrs, and rescued a kidnap victim, one Hajiya Hassana Zubairu, (female) aged 65yrs of Rijiyar Tsamiya village, Sandamu LGA of Katsina state.’’ The police spokesman urged members of the public to cooperate with security agencies by giving them credible information on bandits and their collaborators. Isah added,” The command assures members of the public that the command remains resolute and committed to the ongoing fight against recalcitrant bandits until they are arrested and dealt with according to the extant laws of the land.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com