The floods that were recorded in many parts of Lagos on Friday may be far less than what residents of the commercial city will experience in September, the Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency warned on Sunday. The agency also stated that no new holding dam had been constructed across the River Niger in Nigeria and the course of the Ladgo Dam in Cameroon to mitigate the impact of flood arising from the possible opening of the dam. The Director-General, NIHSA, Clement Nze, told our correspondent that a dam was being designed by experts for that purpose ahead of the actual budget preparation for the facility. Cameroon had advised Nigeria to build holding dams across River Niger and the course of the Ladgo Dam so that the annual release of water from the facility would not cause damage in Nigeria as witnessed in 2014 and 2016. Nze stated that the peak of the rainy season in Lagos often occurred in September, adding that residents of the state should brace for severe floods by taking all necessary measures now to mitigate the devastating impact. Many commuters were stuck in gridlock in different parts of Lagos on Friday as several highways were flooded due to over four hours of rainfall. “The peak of the rainy season in Lagos is projected to be in September and has always been in that month. So, what was experienced across the state on Friday might be far less severe than what will happen during the peak of the rain,” Nze said. He noted that once the Oyan Dam in Abeokuta was opened to release water, the floods in the South-West states might worsen. He explained that the Oyan Dam would have to be opened if the water level in it becomes high, adding that its opening to release water would be necessary to prevent it from rupturing. “If the Oyan Dam collapses, the flood situation in that region will be worse. So, it is better to release water from the dam once its water level gets to the point of allowing some of it to flow out,” he explained. The NIHSA boss noted that the agency’s flood predictions included highly, moderately and least probable classifications. He said, “Lagos and surrounding areas were included in our prediction in terms of the flooding that occurred. Also, Lagos is one of the 10 mega cities globally and there are six cities that are sinking and might sink or disappear in 50 years based on meteorology. Lagos is one of them. “In fact, one of my cousins sent me a voice message in 2019 after reading one of my posts, telling me that they told her in school in Germany that Lagos State would disappear by sinking in the next 50 years.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com