Four persons have been killed by trucks in Osun and Ogun states, while five clubbers lost their lives after their vehicle rammed into a stationary truck in Rivers State. In Osun, a motorcyclist and his passenger were killed in a road accident in Osogbo, the state capital, on Saturday. A resident of Oke Baale area, Dayo Adesina, said the motorcyclist was trying to overtake a truck heading in the same direction with him when the accident occurred. He said, “The motorcycle and the truck were heading towards Ibokun road, but a Korope (commercial minibus) was heading towards Oke-Baale. The motorcyclist was trying to overtake the truck when the Korope suddenly emerged and faced him. “The motorcyclist, in fear of the impending accident, lost control and fell under the truck. The truck ran over them, killing the passenger and the rider on the spot.” In Ogun, a truck crushed two persons to death after it veered off the road and rammed into a parked Toyota Camry on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. Two persons were also injured in the accident, which occurred at the Magboro Bus Stop in the early hours of Sunday. PUNCH Metro gathered that the driver of a Howo truck, with number plate, EPE 198 XV, was chasing another vehicle, which damaged the truck’s mirror. A witness said the speeding truck veered off its lane, rammed into the Camry parked by the roadside and killed two of the occupants. The Public Relations Officer of the Traffic Compliance and Enforcement Corps, Babatunde Akinbiyi, confirmed the tragedy. He said, “The Howo truck used in carrying gas was outbound Lagos (leaving Lagos), when in an attempt to catch up with another vehicle which damaged its side mirror, suddenly veered off the road. The driver, having lost control due to speeding, rammed into a Camry car parked by the roadside, with the two occupants in it losing their lives in the process.” In Rivers, the Federal Road Safety Corps said five persons lost their lives along the NTA Mgboaba Road in the Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of the state. The Sector Commander of the FRSC in the state, Salisu Galadunci, said the accident occurred in the wee hours of Saturday with no survivor, adding that the victims were returning from a night club when they rammed into a stationary truck. Galadunci said, “The road was very free because at 1am there was no traffic when they were coming. “But because I can say they were not in their rightful minds and I guess they went and hit the back of the sewage truck, which was properly parked on the road. “They were two young men and three young girls; all of them perished right at that place. Some of them were even forcefully removed from the vehicle because of the damage.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com