Business owners, residents and motorists in Arepo, in the Obafemi-Owode Local Government Area of Ogun State are in despair over the road construction which they say has grounded business activities in the community. PUNCH Metro learnt that no fewer than 22 houses were negatively impacted by the construction, while three were on the brink of collapse. Our correspondent, who visited the community on Sunday, observed that the construction, which covered the main access road, also resulted in traffic congestion. Excavation of some parts of the community, especially from the Integral Mart Supermarket to the Arepo Central Mosque, shut out many residents from their houses, making vehicular entry and exit impossible. A motorist, Peter Abodurin, told PUNCH Metro that the planning of the road excavation lacked professional input. Abodurin said, “We are happy that we are having a road, but what we are concerned about is the negative impact it’s having on residents and businesses. We believe that the road excavation lacks professional inputs because some of us have been denied access to our premises and businesses. We have lost customers who cannot access our facilities because the depth of the excavation is beyond normal. “We are at least seven feet down from the former planning. The contractor did not consider the topography of Arepo before starting the work. We want the government to review this section such that the upland area doesn’t have the same drainage as the lowland. Infrastructure should be an addition to us, not to take away from us.” Another resident, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said power had been out in some parts of the community for two weeks, adding that the Internet was unstable because of the destruction of telecommunication cables during the excavation. “Professionals have looked at it and said the excavation is an engineering mistake. I usually move my cars out when they (construction workers) come, but I was not informed when they excavated my driveway. I just came to see that I could not access my house or drive my car in again; no one told me anything. A lot of cars are still stuck in people’s compounds. People have to start constructing their own way to access their property. “We believe that only the government can correct this error. They want to still excavate our houses to level the ground and we can’t let that happen.” The Manager of Integral Mart Supermarket, Sunday Abioro, told PUNCH Metro that the excavation had negatively impacted his business. He said customers on the left side of the road could not access the supermarket because they could not freely enter and exit their houses. Another resident and business owner, who identified himself only as Segun, said 22 houses were affected, adding that three of them, including a radio station, were about to collapse. “The design and competence of the contractor are questionable. The community has engaged the contractor and construction company manager, but they haven’t done anything about the situation. “Yesterday, a baby having convulsion was put on a motorcycle to the hospital. The baby, the mother and the motorcyclist fell into a ditch. Another person with oxygen being rushed to Abeokuta for medical treatment was stuck on the bad road,” he added. A commuter, Razak Alabi, told PUNCH Metro that traffic congestion in the area was unbearable, saying the contractor did not create alternative routes for vehicles. The Ogun State Commissioner for Works, Ade Akinsanya, said he was not aware of the excavation, adding that if there were any challenges, a committee set up in the community would have spoken to the government. He said, “I have been to the area a couple of times and I have an engineer on the site. The residents appointed a committee to liaise with the government on their behalf and if there is an issue, they would have brought it to our attention. Construction is a continuous process; we will put a slab over the drainage for easy access.” The Chairman of the Arepo Community Development Council, who identified himself only as Kassim, told PUNCH Metro that the committee had yet to receive any complaints on the excavation. He said, “We have asked aggrieved residents to write so we can take their issues to the government, but we haven’t received any letter. The only letter we received was from a CDA which pleaded with us to facilitate the contractor to put things in place so as to stop the use of their road as an alternative route. “There is a committee chosen by the CDC that liaises with the government and they are experts. The governor also told those who need to be compensated to bring their documents. ” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com