It is necessary to ensure that trucks have no problems. And even if it is noticed that it has a minor fault, ensure to fix it as soon as possible to avoid unexpected and unfortunate failures and breakdowns, which might incur a lot of money. Trucks are supposed to be regularly inspected by the regulating agencies such the Federal Road Safety Corps and the Vehicle Inspection Officers at least twice in a year. But as a driver or owner, you can also prepare a truck inspection checklist to make sure that everything is fine and in a good working condition before you put it on the road. Below are things to check on a truck inspection checklist. Vehicle placards and dangerous Goods registration: Is the truck dangerous goods registration current? Are emergency information panels clearly visible and in good condition? Are emergency information panels displayed on both sides and the rear of the tank barrel? Do emergency information panels display emergency contact details and phone numbers? Tank certification/compliance plate Does the tank compliance plate show the name of the tank barrel manufacturer? Does the tank compliance plate show the design approval number? Does the tank compliance plate show the date of manufacture and test date? Does the tank compliance plate show the tank barrel serial number? Hydrostatic test Last hydrostatic test date: _ _ /_ _ /_ _ _ _ Next hydrostatic test date (+5years): Is the tank barrel within its five-year hydrostatic test period? Will the tank remain within its hydrostatic test period until its next pass-2oad expiry date is due? (If no, the pass-2-load expiry must be reduced to align with its hydrostatic test expiry) Hatch and vent test Last hatch and vent test date: _ _ /_ _ /_ _ _ _ Is the tank barrel within the 2 1⁄2 year hatch and vent test period? Will the tank remain within its hatch and vent test period till its next pass-2-load expiry date is due? (If no, the pass-2-load expiry must be aligned with the hatch and vent test expiry date) Next hatch and vent test date (+21⁄2years): _ _ /_ _ /_ _ _ _ Electrical systems and wiring Is all wiring secure and protected from mechanical or thermal stress? Is all wiring protected by a conduit or an alternate means of effectiveness? Ensure there is no exposed single insulated wiring, electrical connections or terminals? Are all lights weatherproof and in working order? Are light lenses, seals, rubbers and mountings in good condition? Are work lights positioned at least 500mm away from any product valve or tank opening? Are work light lenses free of cracks and protected by wire guards or hardened plastic covers? Are work light switches suitable for use in a Zone 1 hazardous area? Is electrical equipment used during cargo transfer suitable for a zone 1 hazardous area? Tank shell (Barrel) Drainage from coaming Is the tank fitted with rollover protection (coaming) and drains? Are the drainage pipes in a serviceable condition and not blocked? Do the drainage pipes discharge clear of and below the engine exhaust system? Tank shell condition Is the tank, attachments and connections free of cracks, defective welding, serious dents and corrosion? Is there no sign of liquid weeping from the tank, attachments and connections? Check the degassing holes at the bottom of the tank barrel open and not plugged? Electrical bonding/earthing There must be less than 10Ω resistance between the tank shell and any part of the vehicle? If the vehicle can top load, is there a clean and bare earth lug located on the tank? If there is an earth reel fitted, is it secure and in good condition? The earth reel has been tested for electrical continuity, is tagged and is on test date? Less than 10Ω resistance between the earth reel cable clamp and any part of the tanker? Vehicle drive-away protection Can the vehicle be immobilised when a transfer of product to or from the vehicle occurs? For bottom loading vehicles, is there a safety gate over inlet/discharge valves? When raised, does the gate prevent the parking brakes from being released? With the safety gate closed, is the overfill protection system plug prevented from being connected? Does the safety gate have a secure method of being locked in the closed position? Does the locking method prevent the safety gate opening while the vehicle is in motion? Valves /fittings and delivery lines API outlet valve inspection: Is the loading/unloading valve and venting control system free from air leaks? Are all fittings, O-rings and seals free from leaks, breaks, cracks, wear or other damage? Are all outlets valve caps and adaptors connected by a steel chain? Do API valve handles open and close in the same direction? Are all locking pins, bushes, camlock levers, and cur-clips undamaged and in working order? Utilising an API wear gauge, are all API valve nose cones within wear tolerances? Are all gaskets subject to bottom load pressure of a non-cork type? Product outlet markings Are all outlets clearly marked with the compartment safe fill level directly above each outlet? Are there legible product tumblers, indicators or tags in working order for each compartment? Emergency shut-off system Is there an emergency shut off system in place to stop product flow during discharge? Are all tanker emergency stops functioning and clearly labelled? Top of tank inspection Do compartment internal valves close without delay when an emergency stop is actuated? Are dip and fill tubes secure? Are pressure/vacuum vents in place, free from visible damage and the vent wire mesh is clean? Are all fittings, O-rings and seals free from leaks, breaks, cracks or other damage or wear? Where applicable, are the cables connecting the top and bottom operators in working order? Can all compartment hatches and emergency vents/inspection hatches be firmly secured? All dust caps have the correct fitting seals and can be locked/secured in the closed position? Are work lights positioned at least 500mm away from any valve, vent or tank opening? Are work light lenses free from cracks and protected by a wire guard or hard plastic cover? Are work light switches suitable for use in a Zone 1 hazardous area? Is all electrical wiring suitably enclosed and not damaged? Are all tell-tale degassing holes on the top of the tanker barrel plugged? Overfill protection devices for bottom loading Using an approved testing device, do all overfill protection probes pass a wet test? Are all over fill protection probes secure and correctly installed? Removable probes If removable overfill protection probes are fitted, is the overfill protection system disabled when any single probe is removed? Vapour cents Is there a sequential vapour vent interlock system in place? Does the overfill protection system prevent loading until all vapour vents are open? Does the overfill protection system stop the vehicle loading if a vapour vent closes due to a loss of air pressure? Do all vapour vents open when the safety gate is opened and close when the gate is closed? Safety equipment Is safety equipment easily accessible and located away from the discharge connections? (e.g. fire extinguishers, safety cones, spill kit, breakdown triangles) Fire extinguishers Will fire extinguishers remain in date for the six l-month pass-2-load period, (or does the vehicle operator have a service agreement to ensure extinguishers are serviced every six months)? All fire extinguishers are mounted securely with a quick-release attachment? Are fire extinguishers located where they can be easily accessed? Are all fire extinguishers attached in the preferred locations? Are the correct types of fire extinguishers attached? Vapour Hoses and transfer hoses Will the vapour hose and all transfer hoses on the vehicle at the time of inspection remain in test date for the six months pass-2-Load period, (or does the vehicle operator have a hose service agreement to ensure hoses are serviced every six months) ? All hoses on the vehicle have identification tags certifying manufacture and test details? Are all hoses and hose fittings undamaged and seals in good condition? If the vapour hose coupling is stowed/connected to a dummy adaptor the hose coupling poppet must be closed when connected? Stowage of hoses and other equipment Is the vapour hose and all delivery hoses and fittings secure on the vehicle? Are other tools, accessories or removable equipment secured? Inspector’s Signature: ________________________Date: _________________ Notes P1166: Air/fuel ratio sensor 1 heater circuit malfunction Meaning The air/fuel ratio (A/F) sensor 1 is installed in the exhaust system and detects oxygen content in the exhaust gas. The A/F sensor transmits output voltage to the engine control module. A heater for the sensor element is embedded in the A/F sensor (sensor 1). It is activated and heats the sensor to stabilise and speed the detection of oxygen content by controlling current flowing through the heater. An increase in the current levels off as the applied voltage to the element electrode reaches a certain range because the amount of oxygen which is led through the diffusion layer is limited. The current amperage is proportional to oxygen content in the exhaust gas, so the air/fuel ratio is detected by the measurement of the current amperage. The ECM compares a set target air/fuel ratio with the detected air/fuel ratio and controls the fuel injection timing. If the A/F sensor (sensor 1) voltage is low, the air/fuel ratio is lean, and the ECM uses A/F feedback control to issue a rich command. If the A/F sensor (sensor 1) voltage is high, the air/fuel ratio is rich, and the ECM uses A/F feedback control to issue a lean command. When is the code detected? If the element is not activated or the engine control module terminal voltage is a set value or less for at least a set time period when the power is drawn to the A/F sensor (sensor 1) heater, a malfunction is detected and the code is stored. Possible causes Faulty air/fuel ratio sensor 1 Air/fuel ratio sensor 1 harness is open or shorted Air/fuel ratio sensor 1 circuit poor electrical connection P1167: Heated rear oxygen sensor 2 maximum voltage monitoring bank 2 Meaning The air/fuel ratio (A/F) sensor 1 is installed in the exhaust system and detects oxygen content in the exhaust gas. The A/F sensor transmits output voltage to the engine control module. A heater for the sensor element is embedded in the A/F sensor (sensor 1). It is activated and heats the sensor to stabilise and speed the detection of oxygen content by controlling current flowing through the heater. An increase in the current levels off as the applied voltage to the element electrode reaches a certain range because the amount of oxygen which is led through the diffusion layer is limited. The current amperage is proportional to oxygen content in the exhaust gas, so the air/fuel ratio is detected by the measurement of the current amperage. The ECM compares a set target air/fuel ratio with the detected air/fuel ratio and controls the fuel injection timing. If the A/F sensor (sensor 1) voltage is low, the air/fuel ratio is lean, and the ECM uses A/F feedback control to issue a Rich command. If the A/F sensor (sensor 1) voltage is high, the air/fuel ratio is rich, and the ECM uses A/F feedback control to issue a Lean command. Possible causes Faulty air/fuel ratio sensor 1 Air/fuel ratio sensor 1 harness is open or shorted Air/fuel ratio sensor 1 circuit poor electrical connection P1168: Closed loop control function bank 2 Meaning The engine control module performs ON/OFF duty control of the air fuel ratio (A/F)/heated oxygen sensor 1 heater corresponding to the engine operating condition to keep the temperature of air fuel ratio (A/F)/heated oxygen sensor 1 element at the specified range. Possible causes For models 2005 and up: Faulty air fuel ratio sensor 1 bank 2 Air fuel ratio sensor 1 bank 2 harness is open or shorted Air Fuel Ratio Sensor 1 bank 2 circuit poor electrical connection for models before 2005: Faulty heated oxygen sensor 1 bank 2 Heated oxygen sensor 1 bank 2 harness is open or shorted Heated oxygen sensor 1 bank 2 circuit poor electrical connection P1169: Fuel rail sensor in-range high failure Meaning The comprehensive component monitor monitors the fuel rail pressure for acceptable fuel pressure. The engine control module detected the fuel pressure was high for the operating condition. The test fails when the fuel pressure falls below or exceeds a minimum/maximum calibrated value for a calibrated period of time. Possible causes Faulty fuel rail sensor Fuel rail sensor harness is open or shorted Fuel rail sensor circuit poor electrical connection P1170: HO2S-11 no change detected Meaning HO2S-11 no change detected is the generic description for the P1170 code, but the manufacturer may have a different description for your model and year vehicle. Possible causes Faulty HO2S-11 sensor HO2S-11 sensor harness is open or shorted HO2S-11 sensor circuit poor electrical connection Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com