How did you meet? Anwinli: (That’s my husband’s favourite question). I met him in church. He was a Youth corps member in the city where I was based at the time. I was already through with service then. I came with a broken heart to church. Ohis: She came into the church and was going through counselling with the pastor as a first-timer. So the pastor sent for me because, at the time in church, I was referred to as minister for women affairs because I had a way of making ladies who came to the church then stay back. As usual, pastor called me and handed over my wife Anwinli to me, that’s how we became friends. There was no attachment, we were just friends for about two years because she wasn’t my type and I wasn’t her type as well. Basically, we were just working together in various departments in the church. That’s how we met. Since she wasn’t your type what made you propose to her? Ohis: As I said before, she wasn’t really my spec because I actually wanted a chubby lady. (Laughs). At the time I only had a physical perspective of what marriage was but then I was meeting many friends who had those physical looks I wanted but they were not just it for me. It was then I knew that marriage is more than those physical attributes although they are necessary, what is important is connection. Later on, I realised I had connection with her but I did not notice it because she was not my spec. Then for the first time, I thought of her and realised she is a good girl, she is everything I need in a wife, so what was wrong with me and why did I keep looking for a chubby lady? As I made up my mind that I was going to ask her out, immediately she called me and said she was about to say yes to a marriage proposal. She said the guy was okay but did not share the same values with her so I told her to pray about it. I asked her for the guy’s name telling her that I wanted to pray about it but I went to search for him on Facebook and I discovered that this guy was rich and successful while I was squatting in my pastor’s house then. A few days after, she later told me she said no to the proposal. I then proposed to her and assured her that though I didn’t have much if she would follow me as I follow Christ, we would be married. She laughed when I said that but I was sweating. (Laughs). When did you get married? We started dating and a year and a half after, we got married in 2013. You said you were called minister for women affairs, how do you handle attention from female fans? Anwinli: (Laughs) That was then, I have used prayers to block them. How have you been able to strike a balance between your family and career? Anwinli: Well, it is a lot easier for us. We do similar things, so we are together most of the time. Ohis: We are in a family ministry, so we are always together, work together and do skits together. Our home is also our office. How has the journey been? Anwinli: There have been ups and downs, I can’t tell you that it has been all smooth. Our initial year had a lot of disagreements; I will say that came from my end because  I was stubborn and not ready to be teachable due to my background. But we have gone better and making tremendous progress. Ohis: We are from different backgrounds, my wife came from a broken home and she saw the way her father treated her mother, so she had the mentality that when she got married no man will boss over her. That affected us at first but with time, series of counselling, prayers and mentoring, we are better today. What stood out for you on your wedding day? Ohis: I’ll say our wedding was a miracle. We wanted a small wedding but my father-in-law wanted a big one so we kept praying that God would touch his heart. One day he called me and asked me to come the next day with my wife and representatives from my family. We went, (we took a video and camera guy along to record the event), he told us he had a dream and was told to allow us to conduct the wedding the way we wanted. We conducted the traditional wedding with eight of us and I wore jeans. We were in casual wear! Anwinli: The outstanding thing was that whatever we agreed on and envisioned was what happened on that day. That was very remarkable for us. What is your advice to young people on marriage? Anwinli: They should choose wisely; make sure that you are not in a hurry to choose. Your marital experience is a function of who you have chosen. You can have some desires that you think you need but God knows what you really need. Also, agreement is key for success in marriage. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com