The National Association of Aircraft Pilots and Engineers in Nigeria has said Nigerians are ready to handle new technology in the aviation sector. The President of NAAPE, Abednego Galadima, while addressing journalists at the association’s headquarters in Lagos, affirmed that the aviation sector was up to the task. He said, “Virtually most of the local engineers have the basic technical skills; all they need now is to be type-rated on particular aircraft and credit goes to Air Peace as I am aware they have done training for our local engineers, which is also commendable. “Once they get type-rated, they will be good to go. Remember I said it is a vista of opportunity with more technology transfer and that would give us an advantage, particularly in Africa with this new technology and skills. So, eventually, we may end up getting to work on the aircraft when they become available around Africa.” He said the emergence of new airlines with state-of-the-art technology had added to the recovery, thereby giving local engineers the window to get skills, jobs and technology transfer. Speaking on the recent development in the aviation sector, Galadima noted that aircraft investment such as the procurement of the new Embraer 195-E5 by Air Peace Limited would provide job opportunities in the sector. He said, “In my opinion, the sector has recovered 70-85 per cent pre-COVID and it is highly commendable because we have a leadership in the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority that pulled us through and guided the industry right.” He also noted that the emergence of new airlines was an indication of renewed confidence in the industry,  which he described as highly welcome. Galadima said, “Particularly, you see some new investments are beginning to come in. For instance, we commend Air Peace for bringing in new aircraft that would open a vista of opportunity for pilots and engineers in terms of skills acquisition, technology transfer, and open opportunity for jobs. “These are good developments and it is something we welcome and support.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com