Justice Efe Ikponmwonba of the Edo State High Court, Benin City, has sentenced a convict, Ituah Benjamin, to two years’ imprisonment over fraudulent Internet activities. The defendant was arraigned on one count bordering on impersonation and sending of fraudulent messages. He pleaded guilty to the charges. The prosecution counsel, K.U. Udus, prayed the court to convict and sentence him accordingly. Justice Ikponmwonba sentenced Benjamin to two years’ imprisonment and gave him an option of N500,000 fine. The judge also ordered that items recovered from him be forfeited to the Federal Government. In a related development, Justice J. Awak of the Gombe State High Court, Gombe, convicted and sentenced the duo of Mohammed Dabo and Abdullahi Adamu to one year imprisonment each on two separate counts of criminal misappropriation of the sums of N2,500,000 and N1,440,000, respectively. A statement by the Head of Media and Publicity, Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Wilson Uwujaren, said Dabo, sometime in June 2019, collected N2.5m from one Abubakar Ibrahim with the promise of securing a senior cadre job for him at the National Space Research and Development Agency of Nigeria. Similarly, the second convict, Adamu, also in November 2018, collected N1,140,000 from his victim, Anika Saudi, whom he promised a job at either the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps or the Nigerian Correctional Service. Both convicts pleaded guilty to the charges and were convicted. The statement read, “In her separate judgments, Justice Awak sentenced both men to one year imprisonment each with an option of fine of N50,000 to the first convict (Dabo) and N20,000 to the second convict (Adamu). “She ordered the first and second convicts to pay the sums of N1,500,000 and N1,140,000 respectively, to their victims as restitution.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com