First Bank of Nigeria Limited has said it is committed to enlightening entrepreneurs on how to access finance for their businesses. The bank said this on Tuesday in a statement on its upcoming SMEConnect webinar, with the theme ‘The ABC of accessing finance for your business’. It said the event was designed to expose SMEs to various finance opportunities that they could access and utilise to foster the continued growth of their business, while optimising the sustenance of their business operations in contributing to national development. According to the statement, the FirstBank SMEConnect webinar is one of the ways through which FirstBank delivered its capacity building pillar of its value propositions to SMEs. FirstBank said it had been at the forefront of impacting businesses, and had consistently won awards for providing innovative solutions for customers and other stakeholders including SMEs. The statement said the scope of the bank’s SME services covered small/medium scale manufacturing firms, merchants (suppliers, distributors among others), professional firms (law, consulting, audit among others), agricultural, churches, mosques and NGOs, with annual debit turnover of between N5m and N500m. The Deputy Managing Director, Mr Gbenga Shobo, said, “Among many factors, access to finance plays a critical role to the growth and sustenance of every business venture, especially the SMEs and we are delighted with the role we continue to play in connecting SMEs to finance opportunities that are essential to boosting their businesses. “With FirstBank’s over 127 years of being woven into the fabric of society, we remain at the forefront of positively impacting businesses, especially the SMEs and enjoin all business owners and individuals intending to own theirs to be part of the event.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com