It is a common saying that money isn’t everything. Reggae legend Bob Marley gave that piece of wisdom its ultimate expression. According to a friend, who witnessed the exchange, a European journalist once asked Marley about his wealth. “Some people are so poor all they have is money,” the rastaman responded, most likely with his characteristic quizzical stare. “You think having money makes you wealthy?” Another music legend, soul man Sam Cooke, took the issue from the realm of philosophy to that of experience. We may remember him more for “Cupid,” his perennial ode to Valentine’s. Just as soulfully lovelorn is his mid-1960s mega-hit “Another Saturday Night.” In it, Cooke bemoaned: “Another Saturday night and I ain’t got nobody I got some money ‘causei just got paid How I wish I had someone to talk to I’m in an awful way.” Even the richest people have probably had moments like Cooke’s, when they wish they can talk to their money. But then who among the poor wouldn’t want to trade places. Money might not be everything, but it surely enables a life of material comfort. The rich live in healthier environments, they eat what they want when they want it, they jet to foreign lands to treat a headache and to vacation resorts to prevent it in the first place. Any wonder the human race is so fiercely engaged in a rat race. The comfort that money brings also tends to ensure longer life. The poor tend to die young and the rich live a lot longer. Accordingly, life expectancy — the average age of people who die — is so much higher in wealthier countries. According to Worldometers, the top countries (Hong Kong, Japan, Macao and Switzerland) are all rich and their life expectancies are in the mid 80s. In contrast, the bottom countries (Gabon, Chad, Afghanistan, Guinea Bissau, and Chad) are all poor, and their life expectancy barely crack 50. According to Statistica.com Nigeria’s life expectancy as of February 2021 is about 61 years. But Microtrends.net puts the figure at about 55, which is closer to previous estimates. Still, the correlation between affluence and longevity doesn’t always hold. And that leads us back to the Marley and Cooke insight. It has been an age-old and near universal fact that women outlive men. According to a recent study for the US National Vital Statistics System, that gap grew in 2020. Yet, in most societies, including America’s, men enjoy much more earning power than women. Men dominate corporate boardrooms as well as the chambers of political leadership. And then there is curious case of US Hispanics having a higher life expectancy than the US average. The authors of the NVSS study note that Hispanics have maintained the advantage since 2006 “despite experiencing generally lower socioeconomic status.” The Hispanic population includes a large number of illegal immigrants who eke out a living by doing the most menial jobs. Moreover, they often live in constant fear of being arrested and deported. So, they tend to avoid reporting crimes against them and even going to the hospital. Yet they live longer. What has been termed the Hispanic paradox has been attributed to various factors. Some scholars point to a statistical quirk: Hispanics who immigrate must be the healthiest ones and those who get ill after immigrating are more likely to return home.  Other scholars point to habits such as less smoking and to cultural values, such as communal bond and personal communications. Along the same lines, though blacks in general have the lowest life expectancy of the ethnic groups, black women average higher than white men. Yet white men are the embodiment of Wall Street, the factory of money. Something has to be going on that money can’t buy. “With black women being disproportionately overweight, overworked, overlooked and underpaid, you’d think they would be on the verge of extinction,” wrote Washington Post columnist Courtland Milloy in December 2016. That was a year when the overall US life expectancy declined, except for that of black women. “How the black woman managed to escape such a widespread decline in life expectancy borders on the miraculous,” Milloy wrote. “Not only did they hold on to an average life span of 78 years, other recent studies show that black women are also the most optimistic.” And therein lies a priceless factor of longevity. Not to talk of sistahood. It is Marley’s point then that to have money without the intangible tonics of life is to be in the depth of poverty. Tragedy in paradise If you are from island town as I am, you can’t go to South Florida and not fall in love with it. Miami, Boca Raton, Florida Keys. These are all enchanting places, America’s ode to the tropics. The beaches that stretch to infinity, the seagulls that swoop all over, the red roofs that signal a departure from America’s interior, even the muggy air from the salty sea waters. They all combine to make the area a tourist haven. And those who fall deeply in love with the place just don’t leave. They find residence in the beachfront high-rise buildings from which they regularly savour the elegance of the sea. One of the communities there is fittingly called Surfside. And that’s locale of an improbable tragedy, the partial collapse of one of the buildings. As of Wednesday afternoon, 16 bodies have been pulled from the rubble and 147 are still unaccounted for. The collapse of buildings is, of course, routine news in Nigeria because of shoddy constructions and lose enforcement of building codes. But in the US, neither is the case. And that’s why the collapse of the building has baffled experts. People have compared it with “September 11,” the destruction of Manhattan’s Twin Towers by Osama bin Laden’s al Qaeda. And when I first saw the televised images from Surfside, I couldn’t but think of terrorism.  However, it looked more like the bombing of the federal building in Oklahoma City in April 1995 by a rightwing terrorist by the name of Timothy McVeigh. In any case, it is no consolation that the primary “suspect” in the collapse of the Surfside building is poor maintenance. According to reports, a building engineer recently warned that the building was in deteriorating condition. But nobody thought it meant imminent collapse. It has turned out to be a grievous misjudgment for which many people have paid with their lives. Certainly, many more will be having trepidation about the buildings that once gave them an uninterrupted view of paradise. mibelema@bellsouth.net Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com