The  Chairman, Gateway Zone Community Development Association, Oyebode Ojomu, on Tuesday, said officials of the New Towns Development Authority attempted to remove a caveat emptor signboard in order to grant access for the development of an estate on the greenbelt. The greenbelt is located in a vast gorge separating Magodo GRA Phases 1 and 2 in the Ikosi Isheri Local Council Development Area of Lagos State. PUNCH Metro had reported that the Lagos State House of Assembly allegedly passed a resolution directing government agencies to overrun the estate to grant access to the greenbelt for the development of the proposed estate. Ojomu, in a statement on Tuesday, urged the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwa-Olu, to intervene, saying the constant invasion of the estate by suspected land grabbers and their collaborators was against his pronouncements in the state. He said, “We just got a report from our security personnel guarding the Gateway Estate that NTDA officials arrived around 1.30pm to remove the caveat emptor signboard. Our security and the estate manager insisted on the presentation of an official letter backing the action from NTDA or a copy of the House resolution, but the request was to no avail. “The peaceful resistance stalled the removal today (Tuesday), but we know they will stage a comeback with full force, hence our fresh S.O.S. to the governor. We cried out earlier that trouble is brewing from the state legislature’s resolution and letters directly to three agencies of Lagos State Government with strict directives. “The directives, with immediate effect to LASSA and NTDA, among other several state agencies to come and forcefully remove the signage of ‘Caveat emptor buyers beware, no thoroughfare access to the wetlands placed at the entrance of Magodo GRA Phase 1- Gateway Zone Estate’ is a desperate move to undermine the security of our community and endanger us to flood and landslides.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com