Alpha Mead Development Company says it has partnered with the Enugu State Government to develop 750 housing units for civil servants in the state. A statement by the company’s Chairman, Mutiu Sunmonu, said the estate, named Coal City View Satellite Estate, would comprise one-, two- and three-bedroom housing units along with infrastructure such as schools, a shopping mall, medical centres, security, constant power and water supplies. Speaking during a courtesy visit by the board and management of Alpha Mead Group last week, the Enugu State Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, lauded the firm for providing affordable housing space. Ugwuanyi said, “We don’t joke with the welfare of our people; they are the life-blood of our administration and state. “So, it is deliberate that we decided to work with an organisation like Alpha Mead who has a pedigree for quality and sustainable development. We will support you and encourage you to do more.” In his response, Sunmonu assured the governor that the firm would put all of its weight to ensure the success of the project. He said, “This project is important to us because it is another testimony of our commitment to frontally address the issue of affordable housing in Nigeria. “Beyond the positive socio-economic impact that it will have on the government and people of Enugu State, we also want to use it to prove the public-private partnership model to affordable housing in Nigeria; and we are happy that Enugu State is taking the lead in the innovative approach to address the perennial housing shortage that is slowing down our social and economic life as a nation.” The General Manager, Enugu State Housing Development Corporation, Chukwuemelie Agu, disclosed that the estate would be in two phases of 350 and 400 respectively, with the first phase expected to be delivered by Alpha Mead before the end of the year. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com