Prof Joseph Ushie is the Dean, Faculty of Arts, University of Uyo, Akwa Ibom State and an award-winning poet. He talks to GODFREY GEORGE about his life and career You recently became a professor of English and Dean of the Faculty of Arts in your university. What do these mean to you? First, thank you very much for the recognition. Well, ‘professor’ is a title. Being a professor without the knowledge to back it up is bad news. A professor is supposed to contribute solutions to the problems in society. As far as I am concerned, what matters to me is not the title, but how much funds I can put into the bank of knowledge, so when anyone wants to withdraw from that bank, there will be something in the account. What this means for me, ultimately, is that I must keep working as if I were still working towards the title. I should not begin to think that as a professor, I have already reached the peak of knowledge with nothing else to learn. The title is not in my head; it is in my record. What is in my head is the need to keep working to justify that title. For me, the real recognition is the extent to which my existence has impacted on human lives. You are a delegate to this year’s Academic Staff Union of University general congress in Awka, Anambra State, and have been at the forefront of the ASUU-FG face-off for a long time. Most people have said the fight for your demands is like flogging a dead horse. Would you say that the age-long tussle between ASUU and FG is worth the fight? Yes, of course, it is one worth fighting for; in fact, it is one worth dying for. Many veterans, like Prof Festus Iyayi, have died in the struggle. I agree the horse is dead, but it is not because ASUU is fighting with its corpse or carcass. It is dead because taxpayers have neglected our responsibilities to our children. The fight that ASUU is fighting ought not to be left for ASUU alone. In Ghana, for instance, the question of education is not left for professors to fight alone; it is the fight of every Ghanaian. If anything happens to Ghana’s education, the whole of Ghana will be restive; they will get up and tell the government, “You can toy with our resources, but mustn’t dare toy with education, because that’s the only thing we’ve got left.” This is not the case in Nigeria. Nigerians stand aloof and watch government brutalise lecturers. One time, we went nine whole months without salaries all because we were demanding a better educational system for our children. I, alongside other colleagues of mine, was suspended almost without any pay for 17 months because our unionism was clashing with the university’s decision. You can imagine staying without salaries for over a year fighting for a cause. In 2005, I was in Malaysia for a conference. I wouldn’t want to go into the kind of kingly treatment, recognition and respect I was accorded as a scholar. This period was when the global ranking of world universities came up, and Malaysian universities were at the lowest rung of the ladder. It was all over the papers. It was like the civil war. Some citizens even asked the Minister of Education to resign, because he was underperforming if the country he oversaw was not recognised in the global space. It was not left to the teachers; Malaysians saw something wrong and said it as it was. I bought these papers to show my colleagues in Nigeria, so they see how education is given priority in saner climes. In Nigeria, no one bothers. When we talk of lecturers and government engaging in battles, some people say we are fighting a dead horse. That’s a fallacy. The horse is pretending to be dead. It is not dead. You know why? If it were dead, it would not be stealing our money. A dead horse does not steal money and stash in Swiss accounts.  The horse is alive. It is only pretending because it knows that ASUU alone cannot threaten his existence its a thief in the country. If in one season, all of Nigeria gets up – Nigeria Labour Congress, lecturers and teachers, other citizens – just like the #EndSARS movement, the horse will rise. That same day, the horse is going to give Nigerian children their entitlements and dues in education and whatever else we ask for. The horse is also practising selective deafness, especially when it comes to matters pertaining to education. This horse eats public funds voraciously, so it cannot be dead. Growing up, did you aspire to become a lecturer? Well, before I became a lecturer, I worked as a journalist. I was trained as one. After secondary school, I worked as a Radio Nigeria reporter, where I won a few prizes. I was posted to Sokoto. I witnessed the transition from radio to television. Then, there were Radio Nigeria stations in every state of the federation. In 1978, those stations were handed over to the various state governments to control. The one in Sokoto became Radio Rema. After a while, I left to pursue a degree in English at the University of Calabar. I was in Grade Level 6, awaiting promotion to Grade Level 8 – we didn’t have Grade Level 7 for journalists as of that time. So, when I left the university, I had some career options. I had an elderly friend from Sokoto, Alhaji Abubakar, who became a senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. He loved me to be his Chief of Staff when he became a senator, despite the fact that I was not from the North, during my youth service. Also, Alhaji Ibrahim Mohammadu Maccido took me as a son. These people were there for me. That’s why I am so furious with these people trying to break up the country. After that, I tried going back to Rema Radio, but I wasn’t reabsorbed, even though I had gone on study leave without pay. Perhaps, the ‘indigene system’ had come into play then, so I returned to Cross River State and tried being a teacher with the state ministry of education, but it didn’t last up to three months. My former lecturers at the university sent for me to join the then newly created university, University of Cross River, Uyo, as a graduate assistant in 1985. I have been a lecturer for close to 36 years now and I have no single regret. What would you say is your most remarkable experience as a lecturer? I have had very many beautiful experiences on this job of moulding lives and nurturing spirits. Well, generally, since I write and teach poetry, when my students do well, I am happy. When they go out on competitions and emerge winners, I am also very happy. I have a few students who have gone outside the shores of this country and are doing marvellously well. This is something I don’t take for granted. Dr Uwem Effiong Ette, a foremost lecturer of Geography, who taught in the United Kingdom and rose to the rank of associate professor, was one of the first students to score an A grade in the general studies course I took. I am so proud to see how well he has blossomed. That’s the joy of any teacher, to see their students excel in their chosen walks of life. You have won multiple awards as a poet. Which of them is the greatest for you? Well, the one that I consider the greatest may be the one many may call unimportant, in the sense that I only entered one poem for the competition and it was the only one that won the global award from Africa. It was a Canada-based Global Poetry Anthology Competition in 2015. I was surprised when I was chosen as one of the judges for the next edition to hold the following year. What was growing up like for you? I was born into a family of farmers. Both my father and mother were farmers. They did not have western education. My father was Mr Stephen Ushie Ukpan. He was born and named ‘Ushie,’ but later in life, almost about the time I was born, with him joining Christianity, he added ‘Stephen’ to his name. He had, four wives, three of whom bore him children. My mother was the first of the wives. What was it like living in a polygamous home? We lived as if we were children of one mother. I was the sixth child from my mother. You may not know which child was whose. Right now, my father’s wives, apart from one or two, still live together at our family home. We also had cousins who came to stay with us. That was how our father brought us up – living together as one community. My father died at almost 120 years.  I tell people that my father was not born a Nigerian, because he was born before the amalgamation of 1914 took place. Nigeria met him midway in life. He was born just as a Bendi person, which is the village I am from. It is a village in Akorshie, Obanliku Local Government Area, Cross River State. This is where we have the very popular Obudu Cattle Ranch. Though my father didn’t have western education, he had a serious passion for education, and he made sure his children, up to his great grandchildren, go to school. He would give up anything in order to train his child, or any other child with the interest to go to school. Even when he was no longer active because of age, he still made sure he used whatever money came into his hands from his cocoa plantation to train more children. This was his priority. He didn’t bother much about material things. Once you can ate and went to school, he was okay. My mother was seriously disinclined to western ways, which include their education. My mother couldn’t embrace change as easily as my father. Once something was western, she kept aloof. My father spoke little English, but my mom was home-bound. She was okay with farming. Would you say this influenced your personality in any way? Of course, it did. I am a very simple person. The things which move other people don’t move me. I don’t go about pursuing luxury. Once I can eat and care for my basic needs, I am okay. Life in itself is transient; so why the struggle? What schools did you attend? I attended St. Peters Primary School, Bendi. I went to a school a little mature, because my father had one principle: if his children didn’t clock seven, they wouldn’t be enrolled to begin school. This was so because he wanted us to understand the reason we were going to school before we did.  I must say that this principle helped all of us. As a matter of fact, this was the same principle that Finland operates and they have the highest quality of education in the world. My father, as non-literate as he was, built that philosophy and practised it. It turned out that almost all of us skipped classes at some point because of our maturity. By way of hindsight, I can say now that that was visionary. I remember a teacher’s wife who took me as a mentee; I felt so elated that she would pick an ordinary village boy. I felt very good, and it helped boost my confidence as a child. teachers and their families were seen as special people in those days. Even a teacher’s dog was very important. That’s why I feel very aggrieved about the country, that those thieves in government are melting the country down. What are they doing now? They have reduced everything to themselves and their immediate families, forgetting the masses. They steal from the public funds and use the stolen money to train their children in private schools in Nigeria or send them abroad, where they know the system works. Whereas, some of these foreign schools they send their children to are owned and controlled by the government of that country. After primary school, I went to the nearest secondary school, Government Secondary School, Obudu. It was established between the community and the Catholic Church. I have degrees from the University of Calabar and the University of Ibadan. Do you think education in Nigeria is where it ought to be in the sphere of things? My answer will be a definite no. When you see me so passionate about things like the Academic Staff Union of Universities and advocating the free principle of government, it’s because I went to public schools growing up and they were nothing like what we have now as government schools. In fact, no private schools of these days would be able to stand public schools of my time. The teachers of the schools then were well-motivated; they lived in the quarters; they were respected in the community and they were content. They were very important people. I am ashamed to say this is not the same case now. I remember, in this country, one of my roommates in the University of Calabar had a military governor as a father. I am talking about the present Secretary General, Association of Vice Chancellors of Nigerian Universities, Prof Yakubu Ochefu. His father, the late Lt. Col. Anthony Ochefu, was the military governor of East Central State from July, 1975, to February, 1976, during the regime of the late General Murtala Mohammed.  Prof Yakubu was very humble, serious minded and focused on his studies. When I went for my master’s at the University of Ibadan, I studied along with the daughter of Akinwole Michael Omoboriowo, a one time Deputy Governor of Ondo State in the 80s. If you look around the Nigerian university today, which of the public universities would you find a governor’s, senator’s or House of Representative member’s child in? This is why you see some of us are crazy about this cause. What advice do you have for young Nigerian writers who aspire to be like you? I am not sure that it is a great thing for anyone to want to be like me, because if you look at me in terms of other Nigerians, I may not be considered among the great Nigerians for lack of cash in the bank, big houses and cars (laughs). In any case, when they look at my poverty, they will see I have some peace and contentment inside of me, and that’s all that matters. Even kidnappers know I don’t have a kidnap value. If you want to have that kind of inner peace, it is a good thing to aspire to follow. There’s so much you can do. I have one little friend who tried harming herself sometime ago. I told her that it would have been a great loss to the world if she wasn’t rescued. I encouraged her to put her thoughts, frustrating experiences into writing and make a best seller out of the seemingly bad situation. I encourage young people to be content and follow their own journey. They should stop complaining and start taking steps to make lives better and use the good gifts God has deposited in them to pursue the progress they seek. Most lecturers’ dreams are to relocate to Europe for ‘greener pasture’. Do you have plans of leaving Nigeria to lecture abroad permanently? Nigerians always wanting to leave the land is a very sad reality we are in as a result of the bad government we have. I have been fortunate to travel around the world – UK, Malaysia, The Philippines, United States of America, and other countries in Africa – and my conclusion is that no matter how bad your home is, it is still the best. I tell myself if the government is going to push me to a point where I become frustrated to leave the land, I’d rather push the government out of the land, however I will do it. Even if it means the government will crush me, I will die gallantly, like a soldier. Wherever else you go, you are a second-class citizen; you must always remember it. People think going to Europe guarantees unlimited wealth; it doesn’t work that way. When leaving for the US, for instance, the options may not be very many. There is poverty even in the US. People beg for money there; people are homeless there. If I were to leave here now to any other country in Europe, they would accept me, because of my level of education, but there’s a tag – economic refugee. This means you only relocated to Europe because of a bad economy. I wouldn’t like that, and I am not sure many Nigerians would. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com