The police have arrested a traditional ruler in Delta State, Sam Mukoro, Okaka the 10th; a former Secretary of the Udu Local Government Area of the state, Ejovwo Yarhere; and one Chief Gabriel Sikprako for their alleged involvement in the assassination of two sons of Ighohwo, the Okaka the 11th and a riot policeman. It was gathered that the monarch was picked up at his Lagos residence over a month ago, while the two others were arrested at different locations in Delta State two weeks ago. Sources said the three suspects, who are currently being detained at Ogwashi-Uku and Asaba, were apprehended over the killing sometime this year of the two sons of Ighohwo and the riot policeman, who were shot dead by gunmen at Effurun, Uvwie Local Government Area of the state. The victims’ killing was alleged not to be the first time that riot policemen attached to the monarch were killed. Both Ighohwo and Mukoro were said to be contending for the traditional stool in Orhunwhorhun community. It was learnt that they currently had cases in courts at Agbor and Benin City, while there was also a subsisting ruling by the Delta State High Court in the Udu Local Government Area ordering both parties to steer clear from every traditional rites in Orhunwhorhun Kingdom. Following the arrest of the monarch and the two others, some members of Orhunwhorhun community have reportedly gone into hiding for fear of being picked up by the police over the murder. Meanwhile, some indigenes and residents of Orhunwhorhun have said the suspects are not involved in the assassination of the two boys and the riot policeman and urged the state government and security agencies to halt every form of arrest as the contest over who occupies the traditional stool is already in court. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com