Controversy has trailed the alleged gunmen attack in three communities in Ibarapa area of Oyo State on Friday night. Residents of Igangan, Ayete and Igboora had claimed that three persons were shot dead by gunmen suspected to be herdsmen. The attackers were said to have opened fire on one person in Igangan and drove off, killed another person identified as Suli, a motorcycle spare part dealer in Ayete, before driving  through Igboora where a commander of Amotekun in the town was shot dead by the gunmen. The Igangan Development Advocates in a statement on Saturday said it received an intelligence report that armed hoodlums  were planning to attack Igangan town before or on the day of Eid el Kabir . The President of the group, Wale Oladokun, who said this in a statement made available to our correspondent  said state offices in charge of security were alerted but nothing was done to prevent the attack. Oladokun spoke shortly after the coordinator of the Oodua People’s Congress in Oyo State, Rotimi Olumo, told our correspondent that he also issued a statement on the attack and advised government to beef up security in Ibarapaland. He also stated that there were plans already to twist what happened and blame residents of Ibarapa for attacking Customs officers. The statement read, “ The IDA had earlier warned the relevant offices of the state government in charge of the security of the state of the impending attack when it categorically submitted that a reliable “intel” was received that there was going to be an attack on Igangan before the Ileya Festival ( Eid el Kabir). “It is now very obvious by the singular action of these armed bandits whom have unchecked access to government apparatuses such as Customs’ uniforms and sophisticated weapons that the people of Ibarapa have clearly become pawns in the hands of the kingly sects of the sacred cow’s extraction – the untouchable first class citizens.” Oladokun explained that the group had to come out to puncture the alleged planned post-attack propaganda which he said might come from the government that Customs officers on legal duty were attacked by Ibarapa people. The Acting Controller of the Federal Operations Unit Zone A, Usman Yahaya. said in a statement issued by  the Customs Public Relations Officer for the unit, Theophilus Duniya, that the injured officers were receiving treatment. The statement read, “Three Customs officers and a soldier on duty were injured in an unprovoked attack by smugglers in Igbo Ora area of Ibarapa Local Government, Oyo State, in the evening hours of Friday , July 16 , 2021 at about 8:00pm. “The injured Customs officers who are operatives of the Zone A, Federal Operations Unit, sighted eight trucks carrying smuggled foreign parboiled rice and their drivers and armed accompanying passengers launched  an attack on the officers. “One of the attackers was shot and disarmed while the others retreated with their smuggled wares. While investigations are ongoing to arrest and prosecute the attackers, all the attacked Customs officers and soldier, including one that was shot in the head, are receiving treatment.” However, the Commandant of Amotekun Corps in Oyo State, Col. Olayinka Olayanju (retd), when contacted confirmed that gunmen shot dead one of his commanders in Igboora on Friday night. Speaking with our correspondent on Saturday, the Amotekun commandant said smugglers did not attack anybody in Igboora. He said, “They killed not only an Amotekun commander, they also killed somebody in Igangan. They also killed somebody at Ayete. Everything was a kind of drive-by attack. But they weren’t killed by Fulani. “Smugglers did not attack anybody. If smugglers attacked them in Igbooora, were  the killings in Igangan and Ayete caused by smugglers attack? Investigations into the incidents have started.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com