The African Ministers’ Council on Water has tasked African finance ministers to ramp up efforts to increase investments in the Water, Sanitation and Hygiene Programme and make water more accessible for Africans in line with the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations. According to WaterAid, an international NGO focused on water, sanitation and hygiene, inadequate WASH services and poor wastewater management are responsible for as much as 10 per cent of the global disease burden, contributing to nearly two million preventable deaths each year. In a finance brief by AMCOW, the organisation disclosed that WASH service delivery was constrained by a financing gap at all levels which declined sharply from $3.8bn to $1.7bn in 2017 in Sub-Saharan Africa. It revealed that total current investments must be tripled to an annual amount of $114bn, requiring six times the current rate of national government spending on the WASH sector. AMCOW President, Carl Schlettwein, called on African finance ministers to take on the task of increasing investment in the WASH sector very seriously. Schlettwein said, “Africa’s finance ministers are uniquely positioned to support sector ministers in the development and implementation of sustainable strategies to close this gap. “This WASH Finance Advocacy Brief has been developed by AMCOW to help sector ministers raise awareness amongst their peers in finance and other line ministries on the urgent need to prioritise financing of the WASH sector. “AMCOW believes that with the right financing and smart investment, universal access to water, sanitation, and hygiene is possible. With catalytic investment, we can achieve WASH access for all our citizens within the 10 years remaining to attain the Sustainable Development Goals targets.” A 2019 WASH-NORM survey conducted by the Nigerian Bureau of Statistics with support from the World Bank and the African Development Bank revealed that only nine per cent of Nigerians had access to basic water, sanitation and hygiene services with 46 million Nigerians practicing open defecation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com