Two former staff of the Independent National Electoral Commission have been convicted and sentenced by a Kwara State High Court sitting in Ilorin, Kwara State. A statement by the Head of Media and Publicity, Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Wilson Uwujaren, said the convicts, Christian Nwosu and Tijani Bashir, were arraigned on seven counts bordering on criminal misappropriation and breach of trust while in the employ of INEC. He added that the defendants pleaded not guilty to the charges preferred against them, thereby leading to their trial. During the trial, the prosecution, led by Rotimi Oyedepo, called witnesses and tendered several documents which were admitted in evidence by the court. In the face of overwhelming evidence against them, the convicts opted for a plea bargain with the prosecution and also changed their pleas to ‘guilty’. “Consequently, the prosecution reviewed the facts before the court and prayed that the defendants be convicted accordingly. “Delivering his judgment, Justice Mahmoud Abdul-Gafar found them guilty of the offence and sentenced them to one year imprisonment each. “The judge also ordered the final forfeiture of two landed property valued at N25m at Okpanam, Asaba, Delta State, recovered from the first convict, Nwosu, as well as a N5m bank draft raised by him in favour of the commission to the Federal Government. “Justice Abdul-Gafar also ordered the final forfeiture of a four-bedroom flat worth N27m at No. 60, Umme Street, Wuse, Abuja, recovered from the second convict, Inda-Bashir, to the Federal Government,” the statement added. In a related development, the Kano Zonal Office of the anti-graft agency secured the conviction of one Habiba Abubakar before Justice J.K. Daggard of the Federal High Court sitting in Kano on two counts of obtaining by false pretence. The convict fraudulently sold a plot of land to the complainant with fake documents. She was sentenced to seven years’ imprisonment on each of the two counts. The sentences are to run concurrently. The convict was also ordered to restitute the sum of N2,900,000 to the victim.    ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com