Ex-militant leader, Chief Government Ekpemupolo, popularly known as Tompolo, has flayed what he termed the “lackadaisical attitude” of the Federal Government in handling important matters to the citizens just as he urged the government to be sincere in handling developmental issues concerning the Niger Delta. Tompolo, who is also the Ibe-Ebidouwei of the Ijaw Nation, in a statement on Friday said, ”There is much bitterness in the land owing to the lackadaisical attitude of this government in handling matters of great importance to its citizens.” Tompolo expressed concern that despite a consultative meeting between major stakeholders from the Niger Delta and the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, where a truce was reached to suspend an earlier ultimatum given to the government on the issue of the Niger Delta Development Commission, the government had failed to keep to its pledge to constitute the NDDC board in June. He said, “June 2021 has come to an end. The people of the region have yet to see any tangible move towards the constitution of the NDDC board by the Federal Government. The people are seriously agitated. There is palpable fear and tension in the region. “I wish to reiterate my earlier position that the government should as a matter of urgency constitute the substantive board of the NDDC to avoid unnecessary bickering and crisis in the region. Since I reluctantly accepted the outcome of the consultative meeting, I have done so much to keep peace in the region which some major stakeholders in the security circle are aware of. “I have been in constant touch with my fellow agitators in the region to give peace a chance, knowing full well that there cannot be any meaningful development in an atmosphere of rancour and acrimony. “As it stands now, the one thing the government must do in this issue is to be courageous enough to constitute the NDDC board. The government must be sincere in handling developmental issues in the Niger Delta region as the people have suffered enough, being neglected for several decades.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com