A former General Evangelist of the Christ Apostolic Church Worldwide, Prophet Kayode Abiara, has described the founder of the Synagogue Church of All Nations, late Prophet Temitope Joshua, as a true man of God, adding that he was loved by everyone. Abiara stated this on Sunday during a thanksgiving service at the SCOAN auditorium in Ikotun, Lagos, to celebrate the life and legacy of Joshua. Joshua died on Saturday, June 5, 2021, just seven days to his 58th birthday. He was buried on Friday on his church’s premises. The thanksgiving service on Sunday was attended by members of SCOAN, friends and well-wishers. Abiara charged members of the church to proclaim the name of Jesus always, saying it had the power to change them into “shining diamonds and it is by this name that the late Joshua ministered in signs and wonders.” “Let me tell the world present here today that Prophet TB Joshua was a man of God, and the body of Christ in Nigeria and abroad, both Christians and Muslims, loved him,” Abiara said. Several clips of some messages and last moments of the deceased were also played to the congregation. In a clip dated Sunday, October 5, 2014, Joshua had said, “If God has shown me, ‘TB Joshua, today is your last day on earth,’ I won’t come out and say, ‘Praise the Lord, today is my last day on earth’. I will talk to you in parables so that when I have passed away to my father, you can now be with those parables’. In another video of the last service he had on Saturday, June 5, 2021, the deceased could be heard saying, “Many people want to be here, but they live in troubled spots. Don’t forget them in prayer. For you to be here today is by grace. What our nation is going through will soon be over.” The Emmanuel TV choir later led the congregation in a chorus composed by the deceased. Several American gospel artistes, including Brian Courtney, Byron Cage and Shirley Murdock, led the congregation in sessions of praise and worship amid excitement and appreciation to God. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com