Actress and content creator, Amara Maduka, has said society needs to question why sugar daddies feel the need to be with someone else, other than their wives. In an interview with Saturday Beats, she said, “Sugar daddies are human beings as well. How about we focus on why they feel the need to be with anyone aside their wife? They deserve to be happy. We all do. So, I have no words for them. Find your happiness and live it. I will not sit here and be a hypocrite.” Maduka also noted that people were often intimidated by her because of her body. She added, “Men get intimidated by me, talk more of women. They do and honestly, they shouldn’t. I am just here to do good, show love and live my best life. I would rather focus on supporting and lifting women, even the ones I don’t know.” The actress also stated that sex appeal was not needed for one to succeed in Nollywood. The Anambra State-born role interpreter said, “I think sex appeal is not a factor for success in Nollywood because there are different characters for different personalities. So, while sex appeal can be useful for some characters, it really isn’t a factor for success in my opinion.” Maduka also urged young ladies to be careful when dating older men. She said, “Young ladies should be extremely careful. I won’t condemn anyone for dating whoever they choose. Just make sure your intentions are right and be careful with securing that bag (getting money).” The actress who often posts sensual pictures on Instagram revealed that she had never been in love. She said, “I have said this before, I have never dated anyone. And if some men claim they dated me, then I was not aware. I have never been in love. I don’t believe in what these men say. Do I have sex? Yes. But, have I dated? No. So, they can’t be ‘cheating’ on me when I’m not even dating them in my head.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com