The Federal Bureau of Investigation has declared wanted a man believed to have assaulted Metropolitan Police Department personnel during the January 6 invasion of the US capitol. It may be recalled that, on Wednesday, January 6, 2021, the United States Capitol in Washington, D.C., was stormed during a riot and violent attack against the U.S. Congress. A mob of supporters of then outgoing President Donald Trump attempted to overturn his defeat in the 2020 presidential election by disrupting the joint session of Congress assembled to count electoral votes to formalise then President-elect Joe Biden’s victory. The Capitol Complex was locked down and lawmakers and staff were evacuated while rioters occupied and vandalised the building for several hours. “Five people died either shortly before, during, or after the event: one was shot by Capitol Police, one died of a drug overdose, and three succumbed to natural causes, while more than 140 people were injured,” states a Wiki entry on the issue. With building security breached, Capitol Police evacuated the Senate and House of Representatives chambers. Several buildings in the Capitol Complex were evacuated, and all were locked down. Rioters occupied and ransacked the empty Senate chamber while federal law enforcement officers drew handguns to defend the evacuated House floor. Pipe bombs were found at the offices of the Democratic National Committee and the Republican National Committee, and Molotov cocktails were discovered in a vehicle near the Capitol. Trump resisted sending the D.C. National Guard to quell the mob. On Saturday [today], the FBI, via its verified Twitter handle @FBI, seeks public help in identifying a man shown in vicious grip with a police personnel. The tweet states, “Can you help the #FBI identify the man in this photo? He allegedly assaulted Metropolitan Police Department personnel at the U.S. Capitol on January 6. If you have a tip, call 1-800-225-5324, or visit http://tips.fbi.gov. Remember to mention photo 132 in your tip.”