Jigawa State has had fine scores in recent times among all the northern states and I have noted this with a sense of relief.  I mean relief that the state doesn’t experience cases of banditry that are prevalent across the North at this time. The state governor says massive employment rate in agriculture is what essentially keeps the youth busy, and that it’s one reason for the relative peace that Jigawa enjoys. It was a piece of good news that I thought of calling attention to in recent past. I think the state’s effort is a good example on how not to push our people into crime, one that other states should emulate. But as I considered this, another piece of news emerged: Jigawa has a rape problem. Incidentally, any mention of Jigawa State reminds me of my friend, Babandi Muhammed Gumel, a man with a big, bold heart, considerate, and a friend indeed. I lost touch with him several years ago.  Suddenly, I got a message from him about three months ago. He said he saw my number online, and I said it was because of good people like him I left my scent mark everywhere in the public space. I knew good old friends would see it and get in touch. Many have, sounding excited about being able to contact me once more. How Gumel’s personal story tallies with my topic, as well as how he’s such a special friend is a story for another day. However, I state here that Gumel is one of the people whose amazing human nature makes me defend every Nigerian irrespective of tribe or religion against those who think their tribes have saints and other tribes have devils.  I can’t take any stance other than this for the simple reason that I have fantastic friends across tribes. Knowing such people gives me enormous pleasure, making me wonder how any Nigerian could have failed to have their tentacles spread such that talk of hatred for members of any tribe whatsoever would be an anathema to them. I’ve heard some justify hatred for members of another tribe. I notice that when people justify anything contrary to what is lofty, they marshal points that are as fundamentally flawed as they are internally inconsistent. Their reasons sound like justifying stealing, rape etc., all of which cannot do a society any good. As such, I invite to an unending debate those who have the heart to justify harbouring of hatred against fellow human beings.  In addition, I’ll continue to cite examples of my friends  – Igbo, Ijaw, Hausa, Edo, Fulani, Ogoja,  Hausa, Jaba, Kanuri, Tangale-Waja,  Igala etc. –  who, like Gumel, are fine specimens of what human beings with a good heart look like. Alright, back to the rape malaise in Jigawa. A few days ago, there was a report that 128 cases of rape were recorded from January to May this year in Jigawa State. That’s alarming and my first thought was, who are the show spoilers soiling the good image that the people of Jigawa have earned?  But the rape scourge isn’t limited to that state. It applies across the country, and it’s not as if actions haven’t been taken at the policy level. For instance, there’s a death penalty for rapists in Jigawa State. There have been advocacy efforts made with regard to the scourge at state and national levels. Back in December 2019, Mrs Pauline Tallen, the Minister for Women Affairs and Social Development, noted that some two million Nigerians (mainly women and girls) were raped every year. The number of victims who are unknown officially is suspected to be significant too. Some factors contribute to this situation such as a culture of silence, the often-cited discouraging response from law enforcement agencies, as well as a slow judicial process. Now, one could suspect that lack of will on the part of parents and rape victims to follow the judicial processes through could be one reason rapists feel free to go after their victims. This is indicated in the case of Jigawa where unofficial mediation efforts in rape cases seem to undermine steps taken by government officials to prosecute offenders. A TV news report on Jigawa State showed its officials describing what was happening in the state. They said they had both the federal and state laws to implement with regard to rapists, but they were encumbered by parents and other family members of the rape victims. Officials said there was a particular case in which they were ready to charge the rapist to court but the parents of the victim blocked it. The parents of the two parties involved agreed that the girl would be allowed to give birth to the child and thereafter the rapist would marry her.  So, to the parents, there was no case against the rapist to make him face the full penalty for his offence.  State government officials said they had been working hard to prevent a situation whereby parents would always engage in-house settlements that weren’t recognised under the law, and that they were prepared to see every rape case through to its conclusion in court. Besides questions that the situation in Jigawa raises, I sympathise with the state officials over their dilemma. In the North, local ways of handling issues sometimes pose a serious challenge to government officials in this kind of situation. For there are situations where both traditional and religious leaders wade in to have out-of-court settlements between two feuding parties. Often, government officials are known to find themselves helpless in a situation where such leaders step in. Normally, an out-of-court settlement is good and it helps in resolving a number of feuds especially at the grassroots level. Even the law recognises mediation which is what is often informally adopted by parents, traditional as well as religious leaders in conflict situations. However, such mediation in rape cases, as the rising number of rapes in Jigawa State shows, seems to have emboldened rapists.  So where do we go from here? To me, rapists appear to believe the death penalty is inconsequential since traditional and religious leaders would intervene, persuading parents of victims to not pursue a rape case in court. This is detrimental not only to the law of the land, but also the culture of the people and their religion. This is more so as this is a state and communities where Muslims account for a higher percentage of the population. It’s well-known that Islam is a defender of morality and values, and Muslims in collaboration with conservatives of all shades are the last bulwark to the erosion of morals and values that cultures in Africa have to offer if we must maintain a sane society. A good Muslim would close his ears and shut his nose to anything that reeks of sex before marriage. It’s a despicable thing to mention among followers of the tenets of the religion. But now, by raping their victims, some miscreants are boldly desecrating chastity which is an age-long virtue that is highly honoured by all Muslims across the world. So, it’s clear that rapists in a Muslim dominated state are contributing to the desecration of a treasured virtue, a most noble one for those who follow the teachings of Islam. In the event, to what extent shall we say any intervention by traditional and religious leaders which makes rapists escape their deserved punishment is contributing to this desecration? Also, by helping rapists to not face the consequences of their actions in law courts, how much do parents, too, contribute to the desecration of a virtue that Islam holds dear? For me, these are questions the Ulama and traditional leaders in Jigawa State would have to  consider. I urge the Sultan of Sokoto, His Eminence, Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, to take interest in the matter. The Sultan, through the Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs, would need to make a pronouncement on the stated questions. They have to decide whether or not an intervention by traditional and religious leaders, which makes parents accept compensations on behalf of rape victims, emboldens potential rapists to desecrate religious teachings on chastity. Until the highest authority in Islam in Nigeria takes a decision to stop out-of-court settlement in cases involving rape, potential rapists won’t be deterred even with the threat of death penalty. tunjioa@yahoo.com 08036683657 Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com