THE Speaker of the Imo state House of Assembly, Paul Emeziem, has said the decision to suspend six out of the 27 lawmakers was in line with House rules and provisions of the Constitution. Emeziem, said this while speaking with journalists in Owerri on Sunday. He explained that due process was followed in the suspension slammed on: Uche Ogbuagu (Ikeduru, APC), Onyemaechi Njoku ( IhittI- Uboma, APC), Kennedy Ibe (Obowo, APC), Philip Ejiogu(PDP, Owerri North), Anyadike Nwosu( Ezinihitte Mbaise, PDP) and Dominic Ezerioha, ( Oru West, APC). He said that the House under his leadership has remained resolute to effective service delivery and would not condone any act capable of bringing the legislative arm into disrepute. Emeziem described the suspension of the affected lawmakers as, “soft but adequate disciplinary measure against erring members which is enshrined in the rules of the House.” He said, “It is also our duty to run our affairs in the House of Assembly in such enabling way as to remain in synergy with the other arms of government in order to provide functional environment for the people. “But in our observations and assessment, this good relationship has been, and remained until lately, especially immediately or even within the peak period of the insecurity in the state. “Also, we have taken time to observe unnecessary insinuations by certain members, abuse on the personalities of fellow colleagues, autocratic demands of rights and privileges without references to the rules. Some members have even derailed from understanding the primary aim and objective that brought us in the House.” He further said, “the leadership therefore, having examined the level tension already generated through the above unparliamentary behaviors and actions of certain members, decided to take soft but adequate disciplinary measures on them towards reinstating peace and progress in the House.” “You must be aware that an Appeal Committee headed by the Deputy Speaker, Rt. Hon. Amara Iwuanyanwu was set up by the House to entertain any grievance or whatsoever regarding the suspensions and related matters.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com