The President of the African Development Bank, Dr Akinwumi Adesina, has decried the rising level of unemployment in Nigeria, adding that with its abundant natural resources, Nigeria’s poverty situation was unacceptable. Adesina, who stated this while speaking on ‘Building a New Nigeria: Imperatives for Shared Prosperity’, at the convocation lecture of the American University of Nigeria, Yola, Adamawa State, on Saturday, said there were too many Nigerians living below the poverty line. The former Minister of Agriculture, who said Nigerians deserved wealth, rather than poverty, lamented that 38.5 per cent of the youths were unemployed, lacked skills, economic opportunities and had become angry and restless as “they look at a future that does not give them hope”. He said, “I speak to you today as a Nigerian. As I have quite often said, I will live as a Nigerian, die as a Nigerian, and on the resurrection morning, I will ask God for permission to rise as a Nigerian, with the green-white-green flag in my hand! “Nigeria is blessed with incredibly rich diversity: of people, of cultures, of religions, of mineral resources, oil, and gas, amazingly rich biodiversity, that should make us the envy of the world. We are blessed with abundantly diverse agro-ecologies that should also make us a land of bountiful harvests with the capacity to feed Africa. “We are a religious nation, so we should understand that God loves diversity. The diversity of rich and brilliant colours that we see in our forests, oceans, seas, and in flora and fauna, reflect the beauty of the Creator. Therefore, our diversity is not our problem. “Diversity is our strength. But when mismanaged, diversity becomes divergence. Rather than unite, we become splintered, with each entity believing that, somehow, it is better without the other. We must manage diversity for collective good.” Adesina said the country must address the fundamental reasons for ongoing agitations by allowing for open national dialogues without preconditions. “Nigeria must start managing its diversity for prosperity. We must drive for national cohesion, not ethnic nationalities. We must address the fundamental reasons for agitations, by listening, understanding, removing prejudices and allowing for open, national dialogues, without preconditions, but with one goal: build one cohesive, united, fair, just and equitable nation for all, not for a few or for any section of the nation or religion. “Nigerians deserve wealth, not poverty. For all the abundant wealth of natural resources, Nigeria’s poverty situation is unacceptable. Today, sadly, there are way too many poor people in Nigeria. The Government is implementing bold social programmes to reduce the number of poor, through interventionist programmes, but the fact of the matter is poverty is not just about money,” he added. The AFDB president also called for a system based on “meritocracy, not aristocracy or ethnocracy or religiocracy”. “Any society where meritocracy is subjugated to aristocracy, ethnocracy or religiocracy eventually tends towards mediocrity. Nigeria must learn from this experience and forge a new way of engaging among its diverse ethnic groups and religions,” he added. Adesina also stressed the need to prioritise investments in the youth by upskilling them for the jobs of the future, and “by moving away from so-called youth empowerment to youth investment; to opening up the social and political space to the youth to air their views”. He, however, said the African Development Bank was working on a $500 million programme, Digital Nigeria, being designed to help further transform Nigeria’s digital competitiveness and build on the incredible entrepreneurship of Nigeria’s youth. Adesina added, “The bank is also exploring the establishment of Youth Entrepreneurship Investment Banks – financial institutions for young people, run by first-rate young bankers and financial experts, to drive youth-wealth creation.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com