The All Progressives Congress has said that all persons contesting the position of youth leader must be between 18 and 35 years old. This was contained in a statement titled, ‘APC Releases Timetable, Guidelines for July 31 Ward Congresses’, by the National Secretary, APC Caretaker, and Extra-ordinary Convention Planning Committee, John Akpanudoedehe, on Sunday. The statement also had the approved schedule of activities and guidelines for the conduct of APC’s nationwide ward congresses scheduled for July 31. further added that “All persons vying for the position of youth leader must be between 18-35 years,” Akpanudoedehe said. He added that all aspirants must show evidence of financial membership of the party, noting that the party had granted waivers to new members and returning executives to contest congresses. “The National Executive Committee has granted waivers to new members who applied for such and also to all officers at Ward, Local Government, and State levels. “In addition to waivers granted to officers seeking re-election, waiver is hereby granted to persons who joined the party recently to vote and be voted for, provided that their names are in the ward registers,” he said. According to Akpanudoedehe, the purchase of nomination forms for Ward, Local Government and Area Councils and State Congresses would take place from July 19 to August 28. “Screening of aspirants for the ward party positions is scheduled for July 29 to July 30, ward congresses will hold July 31, appeals arising from ward congresses will hold August 2 to August 7,” he said. Akpanudoedehe said each state of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory shall for the purpose of the party’s 2021 congresses, have a committee of seven persons to be selected based on their proven integrity. “They shall be appointed and supervised by the CECPC and shall be referred to as the Ward Congress Committee. The members of the committees will be posted to places outside their states of recruitment. “It shall be composed of a Chairman, Secretary, and five other members, one of whom shall be a woman where possible. “The committee shall be responsible for the conduct of the ward congress exercise in their place of posting,” the APC scribe said. He added that the winner of an election shall be determined by a simple majority of total votes cast and declared winner in an open view.