The Federal High Court, Ikoyi, Lagos, has threatened to deny the Lagos State Independent Electoral Commission access to the Independent National Electoral Commission register for Lagos voters ahead of the July 24 local government poll. The judge in charge of the suit marked FHC/L/CS/677/2021, Justice Chukwujekwu Aneke, gave LASIEC seven days to show a reason why it should not grant a prayer by an All Progressives Congress chairmanship aspirant, Raheem Alani, who sought to restrain INEC from accessing the register for the 20 Local Government Areas. In a bench ruling, Justice Aneke held, “Being an ongoing election matter, I shall give the defendant/respondent seven days within which the defendant shall show reasons why the order should not be made against them.” Justice Aneke made the ruling after Alani’s ex parte motion which was argued through his counsel, Tope Alabi, seeking four reliefs. Alani, a registered voter and a resident of Agege LGA, is the plaintiff/applicant, while INEC and LASIEC are the 1st and 2nd defendants in the suit. Alani argued in his affidavit of urgency that LASIEC ought to conduct the election in accordance with the constitutionally recognised LGAs in Lagos State, and not based on the 57 Local Council Development Areas created by the state, which it intends to use. Alani stated, “I know that the 57 LCDAs where the 2nd defendant intends to conduct elections are a product of the unconstitutional ‘balkanisation’ of the 20 constitutionally-recognised LGAs in Lagos State. By ‘balkanisation’, I mean that many of us have been excluded from Agege LGA and put within the unconstitutionally created Orile-Agege LCDA. “This means I would be denied the right to vote or be voted for, as well as be robbed of voting to elect the chairman of Agege LGA or to be elected as its chairman.” Alani then prayed the court for an order restraining INEC from giving, submitting or making the register available to LASIEC for its use in the chairmanship and councillorship elections based on the 57 LGAs and LCDAs, or any other number of LGAs in excess of the 20 LGAs pending the determination of the motion. He also prayed the court for an order restraining INEC from giving LASIEC any logistical support for the elections based on the 57 LGAs and LCDAs, as well as an order stopping LASIEC from preparing for the polls based on the 57 LCDAs. After giving his ruling, Justice Aneke adjourned the case till July 14, 2021. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com