The controversy surrounding the death of Keren Akpagher, a student of the Premiere Academy in the Lugbe area of Abuja, took a new twist on Thursday, as the police moved to crack down on activists pushing that the incident should not be swept under the carpet. Ahead of a protest scheduled for Friday (today) by civil rights activists, the police on Thursday invited the leader of the Coalition Against Gender-Based Violence and Convener of the Men Against Rape Foundation, Lemmy Ughegbe, for questioning for allegedly inciting public disturbance. They were also said to have gone to the private school being run by his wife with a view to arresting him. A source, however, said Ughegbe might be arrested during the protest. A copy of the invitation letter of the police sighted by PUNCH Metro and dated July 8, 2021, was signed by a Deputy Commissioner of Police, Criminal Investigation Department, FCT Police Command, Abuja, Fom Pam Joseph. The document, with ref. no. AR 3000/FCT/X/D9/Vol. 62/38 reads, “This office is investigating a case of inciting public disturbance, wherein your name featured prominently. “In view of the above, you are requested to interview the undersigned through the officer in charge of Gender Section, Criminal Investigation Department, Abuja, today, 8/7/21.” Ughegbe said, “The police went to my wife’s school to arrest me. They didn’t come to my office in Utako. See the letter by the same DCP that stalled the autopsy last Saturday by refusing to release the medical report to the pathologist.” Fourteen-year-old Keren was believed to have been sexually abused before she was withdrawn from Premiere Academy by her mother, Vivien, on June 19, 2021, for treatment. Her mother alleged that when she took her to a hospital, a doctor found condom in her private parts and further tests revealed sperm in her urine before she died. Meanwhile, Premiere Academy, on Thursday, described as lies reports that the autopsy result on Keren’s death was out and indicted the school. The institution said the result had yet to be released, as a team of pathologists, led by the police, only commenced their enquiry on Wednesday. The acting Principal of the school, Chris Akinsowon, stated this at a briefing  in Abuja. Akinsowon noted that Karen was released to her mother in stable health condition on May 19, 2021. He said, “The school only got to know about her hospitalisation in the morning of Monday, 21 June, 2021. We mobilised immediately and paid her a visit at the hospital on that day. It was with deep sympathy that we later heard of her demise early the next day, Tuesday, June 22, 2021.” He dismissed reports that the school refused to grant the deceased’s mother custody of her sick daughter, adding that the school was not informed about the alleged molestation and no medical report was sent to the school. “This notwithstanding, the school has commenced an internal investigation to ascertain if this actually happened and who the perpetrators may be. No stone will be left unturned in our quest to get to the root of this matter, not only to bring the perpetrator to book, but also to forestall such an incident in the future. As an institution, the safety and security of our students are most paramount to us,” Akinsowon added. Speaking on the allegation that the late student was raped and a condom found in her private parts, the matron of the school, Grace Salami, said such could not have happened in the school. “The statement did not add up to me because a condom is latex not meant to be decayed. If it was actually decaying, we must not see spermatozoa there again. So, I was not convinced. That was why I pressed further to see the doctor and see all the items,” she said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com