Torrential rainfall which began on Monday night and the accompanying floods have wreaked havoc in some parts of Ado Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital. Some homeowners had their property destroyed by floods, as our correspondent observed many residents lamenting the loss of their belongings. Areas most hit by the floods included Balemo and Tinuola, off Afao Road, in the state capital. Some residents, who said they were temporarily dislodged by the floods on Monday, said the rain on Wednesday dealt the final blow. One of the victims, Blessing Oladele, told PUNCH Metro in Ado Ekiti on Thursday that “the flooding was caused by the erosion that flowed down from Christ’s School at the Fajuyi area, coupled with the fact that the Elemi stream along Iworoko Road that flows downward overflowed its banks and these two generated the flood that destroyed some houses in our area.” “It affected about 10 buildings and we would have recorded casualties, but for the fact that we quickly ran out of our buildings with our wives and children to seek refuge in safer neighbouring houses. “Apart from affecting some of the building walls and foundations, we lost other valuables like electronics, clothing materials, beddings, chairs, rugs and kitchen utensils. “The canal was dredged during the first term of Governor Kayode Fayemi, but it has been blocked by debris, which I believe caused the blockade that led to the flood,” he added. Another victim, Mr Sunday Ojo, who appealed to the government to dredge the affected canal identified as the main cause of the flood, said, “The canal at the Tinuola area needs to be dredged to be able to contain the water from upland.” The Chairman, Ekiti State Emergency Management Agency, Captain Sunday Adebomi (retd), said the agency would assess the extent of damage and how best to intervene and control flooding in the area. In Rivers State, three days of continuous rainfall in Port Harcourt and nearby towns caused heavy flooding and gridlock in many areas. Many commuters were stranded at bus stops, as some commercial vehicles  were forced to either park or close for the day due to the downpour. One of our correspondents, who monitored the situation, reported that the rain, which started on Tuesday, left roads and markets flooded and caused untold hardship to many residents, including motorists and commuters. Some stranded commuters, who spoke to our correspondent, said the downpour also affected their plan. “I came to the market to do some shopping, but the rain was something else today. Even with my umbrella I can’t continue and it has been like this for days now,” a middle-aged woman said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com