Personnel of the Kaduna State Police Command have rescued three kidnapped victims, including one of the 121 students of the Bethel Baptist High School, Kaduna The command’s Public Relations Officer, ASP Mohammed Jalige, said this in a statement. Jalige said the rescue was carried out around 3pm on Monday, adding that a combined team of police personnel and members of the Civilian Joint Task Force were combing the forest when they stumbled on the three kidnapped victims. The statement gave the names of the victims as Zaharaddeen Ibrahim and Nura Nuhu, who were recently abducted on the Kaduna-Kachia Road, and Abraham Aniya, a student of Bethel Baptist Secondary School. The statement read in part, “The Kaduna Police Command’s mission to rescue all kidnap victims through intelligence-led policing and rigorous patrol yesterday (Monday), yielded a positive result with the rescue of three victims to safety. “On Monday, July 12, 2021, around 3.40pm, operatives of the command, alongside civilian JTF, on routine rescue patrol around the forest of Tsohon Gaya village of the Chikun LGA of Kaduna State, stumbled on three kidnapped victims roaming the bush extremely exhausted and weak. “The victims were safely evacuated and rushed to the Police Clinic, Kaduna, were they are currently being resuscitated and will subsequently be handed over to their immediate families. “During the course of investigation, the three victims were identified as Zaharaddeen Ibrahim and Nura Nuhu, who were kidnapped recently along the Kaduna-Kachia Road, and Abraham Aniya, one of the students of Bethel Baptist Secondary School, Kujama, who were kidnapped the previous week.” The police spokesman said the force would not relent in ensuring that more kidnapped victims were rescued within the shortest possible time. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com