As part of activities to commemorate the National Cancer Survivor’s Day, the Atinuke Cancer Foundation, on Saturday celebrated cancer survivors. The wife of the Ondo State Governor, Mrs Betty Akeredolu, who was part of the dignitaries at the luncheon, noted that early detection was key in the fight against the disease. “Cancer is a disease everybody had thought nobody could survive, but here we are, telling the world our experiences that breast cancer is not a death sentence. We will keep on sending the message across the country that breast cancer doesn’t have to kill if you do the right thing at the right time. “We all should understand what this disease is all about, and also know that if you do nothing about it, it could be bad. We are here to say that awareness is important in the fight against cancer,” Akeredolu said. The founder, Atinuke Cancer Foundation, Mrs Atinuke Lawal, who is also a survivor, said the event was meant to encourage people who had survived the disease, as well as  raise the awareness about cancer. She said, “The day is meant to demonstrate that life after a cancer diagnosis can be a reality; never allow despair to dominate. Cancer is a monstrous disease that takes a toll on the health of individuals globally. And while some succumb to this disease, we still have those that manage to come out stronger.” A radiation oncologist, Dr Bukola Osinkanlu, in an interview with our correspondent on the sidelines of the event said the treatment for cancer was expensive, adding that  there had been calls to the government and policymakers to intervene. “There are now a number of chemotherapy agents that have been included for patients that have such health insurance coverage. At the moment, I do not know of any health insurance that covers radiotherapy except one or two private insurance. We still have a lot of work to do in that regard,” Osinkanlu said. The expert also reiterated the need for women to go for regular screening, saying early detection was important in the treatment of cancer. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com