During a recent interview, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), asked Nigerian youths to behave well and ensure Nigeria is secure, in order for them to get jobs. In my opinion, that is outright laughable. What does he even mean by ‘they should behave themselves’? Does he mean the youths should just sit and not speak out about the various ills plaguing the country at the moment? As far as I’m concerned, the country has never had it this bad with the rampant cases of terrorism, banditry, kidnapping and robberies in different parts of the country. To top it, there is a lack of social amenities as a result of the bad governance in the country, which elected public ‘servants’ are carefree and unbothered about. Yet, what the president expects from the youth is silence? Wonders, indeed, will never end! The President should be encouraging the teeming youth population who are currently hanging onto shreds of hope in order to survive in a broken-down system. Instead, he is heaping the blame of insecurity on the young population while still asking them to behave well. It is all too apparent that he has little regard for the Nigerian youth. If he is not calling them ‘lazy’, he would be busy implying that they are badly behaved. Whose job is it to ensure the security of a country? The 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, as amended, guarantees the protection of the lives and property of its citizens, and that power is conferred on the President. Sadly, we have a president who appoints the heads of all security agencies but cannot do so effectively. Things have now deteriorated to the point where the president is asking the youth to protect the nation, so that the country can attract foreign investors. With the sad turn of events and the president’s utterances at different times, the citizens have been indirectly informed that the presidency cannot protect lives and properties. As such, our security is in our hands. Sometimes ago, the Minister of Defence, Bashir Magashi, also asked Nigerians to defend themselves against bandits and other forms of armed attacks. If that is not absurd, I don’t know what it is. I’m tempted to ask, why then do we have a security budget? Why do we have the armed forces? Why do we even have a government that has seemingly shirked the responsibility of protecting the people who it has a duty to safeguard? It is an open secret that Nigeria has one of the most porous borders in West Africa. Is the president also asking the youths to protect the borders? If I may ask, what has the President done to maintain the relationship with foreign investors if they cannot be assured of the most important aspect of doing business in the country, which is security? Will any foreign investor come into the country if the government responsible for the security of the nation and its citizens leaves its constitutionally-backed duty in the hands of the youth? Since the inception of this regime, it has been one blame game after the other. This time, it is the youth who are getting blamed for a situation they have very little, if any, control over. I think it is even better for the president to stop granting interviews because whenever he does, he ends up painting the country and its people in a very bad light. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com