Can you share your ideas and thoughts on the Nigerian Press Council Amendment Bill? Going by some of the provisions of the bill, I think it is overkill.  There are some people, who are in power and are bent on destroying the Nigeria Press without taking into consideration how the press has contributed to what we now call democracy in this country. It is a reaction to some of the inconveniences or some of the challenges that those in power are facing for now. So, it is not something that is borne out of a very careful thought; it is not something that is borne out of the future of democracy in this country. So, it is a kneejerk approach to solving some contemporary challenges without taking into consideration the future of the practice of democracy in this country and without an understanding of the contributions of the Nigerian press to the democracy that we enjoy now. You can’t talk about the history of Nigeria, its politics and democracy from the colonial times to the period of the military till this time without talking about the laudable contribution of the press. So for some people to wake up because of some temporary discomfort and current challenges and just want to destroy a very strong institution like the Nigerian press is unimaginable. I think the media, civil society organisations and ordinary people who believe that democracy must thrive in this country must stand up and fight that law. The provisions are anti-democratic. The provisions are even against the spirit of the Nigeria constitution. People must rise up to fight it. The man who proposed that bill, one Olusegun Odebunmi, the Nigerian mass media must expose him for who he is, where is he coming from, what is his history? These are some of the things. We must reveal his identity, not just his name and where he is representing, but who is he, where is he coming from, what are his antecedents, his history so that we can know the kind of person he is and maybe through the civil society group, we must start a process of even recalling him by his constituency, because people like him constitute a danger to the democratic structure we are trying to nurture in this society; so, they must be exposed for who they are. Objectively, do you think there are things that the media are doing wrong that could have warranted attempts to gag the media, sanctioning and fining them? Some of these laws on whether something is wrong, whether a story is fake or on hate speech are very subjective. So, when you say if the media are doing anything wrong, wrong to whom? Who defines what is wrong? Do you get what I am saying? So, it depends on where you are. Many Nigerians are very bitter at the government and the media are giving expression to these and the government is not ready to face the fact that things are not going on well. Food prices are high; is the government saying that the media should not report such things? So, the government must be ready to face the reality on the ground and try to solve these problems. That is why I am saying that whether something is right or wrong, fake news or so, it is because of the complexity we have in Nigeria. What is wrong in one part of the country is different from what is right in another part of the country, because of what they are going through and their experience. What I can say is that the government’s communication strategy is not right; they are not getting their act right. There is a gap and some people are feeling that gap, especially in social media. Government is not engaging Nigerians properly with its programmes, policies and actions. So, people can fill those gaps. There is a lot of gap even with the people in the government and the way they talk. People react to such things and you want to blame the media? Looking at the Twitter ban, the government said social media constituted a threat to the security, unity and other aspects of Nigeria. What do you have to say about this? The government will always find reasons to justify its actions. I’m sure many Nigerians are not too pleased with what we see on many social media platforms. But banning Twitter is not just an extreme case, it is a situation that shows much ignorance of how technology has totally changed the communication landscape all over the world. People are still using Twitter and Facebook; so, I think the government took a wrong decision out of panic, like I said earlier, because of current challenges they will take actions without looking at the implications of the actions. That is what has happened with Twitter, because after the ban, they started to look for reasons to justify their decision. You can see that reactions within and outside the country have been more negative. It has really done a lot of damage to the image of this government. It is something I think they didn’t really think through before a decision was taken. I think the man at the helm of affairs at the Ministry of Information lacks the nitty-gritty or a grasp of what that ministry entails. What are those things that subsequent governments should consider while trying to pick a person for such a sensitive position? It is very difficult to look at individual Nigerians, because if you pick the next person, he/she is likely to behave like that. We should build our institutions so that one individual does not come to destroy the whole edifice. Every government must have a strategy and this government has no communication strategy. There is no communication strategy and policy. Do you have a group of people that are daily thinking of how the government will come across to the people and communicate with them? It is like the government is more interested in just dishing out information. We see that the two advisers are former journalists, so they look at public communications as not different from writing newspaper articles, doing new stories and things like that. Public communication has gone beyond that, especially in this digital age. I think those in subsequent governments should note that the fact that somebody was an effective party publicity secretary doesn’t make him the spokesperson for the entire country. We must distinguish between a spokesman for a party and being the Minister of Information for the whole country. There is a difference, the works are different. I think the government must come to realise that the fact that you’re a very good journalist or columnist doesn’t make you a very good adviser to the governor on public communications or the President. So, the two functions are different. One must come to realise these distinctions. What advice do you have for the government on all of these? The man who sent the bill to the House should explore if there is a way they can withdraw the bill and start all over. Start consultation with key stakeholders, build consensus on what you want to do and how you want to go about to build the bill. Then you can now have a bill for the National Assembly. If there is a need to look at those laws again, update them in view of changes, digitisation etc, let them get back, withdraw what they have and start a process. But for you to wake up and think one day after you have had the bill, you are now calling for a stakeholders’ meeting. I am saying that there must be negotiations, consensus for all the media organisations, the NUJ, the Nigeria Press Organisation, the Newspaper Proprietors Association of Nigeria and broadcast organisations etc should come together and look at what is on the ground and make their own suggestions. They can even present their own bill to counter the one this man has sent and then strengthen the self-regulatory mechanism within the profession. That is very important as if the media is self-regulatory and punishing those who do wrong within the profession, I think we will be able to get a way. I am saying that we need to strengthen the self-regulatory mechanisms within the profession just like the other professions like medicine and law, they do that within themselves. So, media organisations must be ready to do that so that the government will not be charging at the media at every little opportunity and excuse they have. The National Broadcasting Commission  has directed broadcast stations in Nigeria to stop reporting the details of attacks by bandits and insurgents, what’s your take? It seems we are seeing the end of journalism as it is known and practised in other democracies.  While I agree that journalists must be sensitive and factor in the nation’s complexities, it is not for the government to give directive on how to go about it. Government must learn to engage the media without resorting to this military era directives. There are many laws to handle some of these issues  and of course many news management strategies and techniques are available to the professional  PR and strategic communicators. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com