The newly appointed General Manager, Lagos State Physical Planning Permit Authority, Kehinde Osinaike, has expressed his readiness to improve service delivery at LASPPPA and reduce drastically the timeframe for processing planning permits. Osinaike said during his inaugural meeting with management staff and district officers of the agency that his tenure would be predicated on a four-point agenda based on the THEMES agenda of the Lagos State government, according to a statement on Friday. According to him, the four-point agenda entails improvement in turnaround time of processing planning permit, bringing in more developers/owners into the net of those applying for building approvals, development of good relationship with stakeholders, and building human capacity. He directed the LASPPPA management team to internalise the agenda, and urged the district officers to be more accommodating and respectful to customers. On human capacity building, the general manager said he had plans on extensive training, encouragement and rewards for hard work. He emphasised the need for the management to be good examples to their subordinates, saying they should be decisive and firm to get tasks accomplished. He also vowed not to take lightly his primary assignment or trivialise the confidence reposed in him to improve the status of the agency. Osinaike thanked Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, the Commissioner and Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development for the confidence reposed in him that led to his appointment. He thanked his immediate predecessor, Funmi Osifuye, specifically for setting a good foundation and bar for him to build upon, saying the erstwhile general manager impacted him positively, both personally and professionally. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com