The Arewa Consultative Forum ACF has expressed sadness about the death of Barnabas Bala Yusuf (Bantex), the former Deputy Governor of Kaduna State who died on Sunday. The state government has also declared Monday public holiday in his honour. The Forum, through its National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Emmanuel Yawe, described the late former deputy governor as an “unusual gentleman” who contributed to stabilising the first tenure of the current governor, Malam Nasir El-Rufai. Fondly called ‘Bantex’, the late former deputy governor died in a hospital in Abuja on Sunday. ACF said, “He served as a Deputy Governor to Nasir el Rufai in his first term 2015 – 2019 but preferred to run for Senate in 2019 rather than continue as a Deputy Governor. “At the ACF, Bantex was considered an unusual gentleman who contributed in no modest way to stabilising the first tenure of the el-Rufai government. “He had served his people other capacities at the Local Government level as Chairman Kaura Local Government, state; and federal levels as a member of the Constitutional Conference 1994 and House of Representatives. “The ACF condoles with Governor el-Rufai and the immediate family and the whole of Kaduna State on the loss of the great human asset known as Architect Barnabas Bala Yusuf, Bantex.” Meanwhile, the Kaduna State Government has declared Monday, 12th July, work-free day in honour of its late deputy governor, Barnabas Yusuf Bala, who died on Sunday. A statement issued by the Special Adviser on Media and Public Communication to Governor Nasir El-Rufai, Mr. Muyiwa Adekeye, revealed on Sunday. The statement said, “The Kaduna State Government has formally announced the death of former Deputy Governor His Excellency, Barnabas Yusuf Bala (Bantex). The state government has declared Monday, 12th July 2021 as a work-free day in honour of his memory and service to the state. “Architect Barnabas Bala, who served as Deputy Governor of Kaduna State from May 2015 to May 2019, died today in Abuja. “Malam Nasir El-Rufai has sent a personal message of condolence to the family, noting that it was a blessing to know Bantex and to work with him. “The governor acknowledged his commitment to the progress of Kaduna State and prayed God to grant him peaceful repose and to comfort his family.”