The Presidency on Sunday replied the Bishop of the Catholic Diocese of Sokoto, Matthew Hassan-Kukah, over his recent address to the United States Congress. This was contained in a statement by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, titled, ‘Response by The Presidency to the Statement made by Bishop Kukah before the United States Congress’. The Presidency accused the cleric of sowing discord and strife among Nigerians by spreading falsehood to discredit the regime. Recall that Kukah had in a virtual appearance before the US Congress criticised the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), for mishandling insecurity and the rampant kidnapping of schoolchildren. Kukah also accused the President of nepotism, highlighting key appointments that favoured individuals of his faith. The bishop had stated, “The whole of the North is being invaded by armed bandits, who are launching attacks at will. The President has shown nepotism in his appointments as he is appointing only people that share the same religion with him into key political offices like the security chiefs. “For the first time in Nigeria, the first three persons: the President, the Senate President and the Speaker of the House of Representative are all Muslims.” In its response, the Presidency said, “It takes a warped frame of mind for a critic to believe ethnicity is of primary importance in public appointments. It is yet more troubling to hear a churchman isolating one group for criticism purely on ethnic lines. “The bishop’s assertion that only Christian schools are being targeted by bandits or terrorists is not supported by the facts on the ground. “The attack on Christian students is sad and unacceptable; so also is the abduction of students of other faiths. The claim that only Christian schools are being targeted is totally untrue.” It further accused the cleric of sowing discord and strife among Nigerians. “For all our challenges as a nation, nearly all of us seek to live together in harmony, celebrating differences, and finding common ground as Nigerians above all. But people like Kukah are doing their best to sow discord and strife among Nigerians,” the Presidency said. It added that the vast majority of Nigerians wanted to remain together and also advised the citizens to stand up for the truth as a matter of moral responsibility. The statement added, “More than any other set of people, leaders in politics or religion, who preach respect for truth, have a duty to practice it. It is a moral and practical responsibility. “Going by the history of the church as is well known, it will stand up publicly for the truth. It is time others did the same.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com