The apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation Ohanaeze Ndigbo, has broken its silence on the rearrest of the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra, Nnamdi Kanu, by the Federal Government. Ohanaeze insisted that in as much it was not averse to Kanu’s trial, he must be tried within the ambit of the laws of the country and in line with global best practices, adding that it identifies with grievances of the Igbo youths on the marginalisation, menace of Fulani herdsmen among others. The apex Igbo group stated this in a communique issued at the end of its National Executive Committee meeting held on Saturday at its National Secretariat in Enugu, signed by its spokesman, Chief Alex Ogbonnia, and made available to journalists on Sunday. Ohanaeze, however, said to ensure a fair trial of the leader of the IPOB leader, that it has constituted a legal team and eminent Igbo leaders that will be led by its National Legal Adviser to monitor the proceedings throughout the trial. The six-point resolution read, “That Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide has observed with keen interest the recent re-arraignment and consequent trial of our son, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. “That, in as much as Ohanaeze Ndigbo is not averse to his trial, we however submit that he should be tried within the ambit of the laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and in line with global best practices.” It added, “Ohanaeze strongly support the stand taken by the Southern Governors Forum on anti-open grazing, restructuring, rotation of the President of Nigeria to the South in 2023, and the proposed 5% share of the Petroleum Industries Bill (PIB) for the host communities. “That we identify with the Igbo youths in their grievances with respect to Igbo marginalisation, the menace of the Fulani herdsmen, etc, however, we do not support the use of any form of violence to redress the relative deprivation and prevailing inequality and injustice across the country.” Ohanaeze, however, appealed to the Igbo youths to be law-abiding and sheath their sword, and allow their leaders and stakeholders to address those collective grievances through meaningful dialogue and negotiations. It further enjoined Ndigbo, especially the youths to take the ongoing voters’ registration exercise seriously, adding that “this is the only means that guarantees effective participation in Nigerian politics and a sine qua non to achieve our goals and aspirations in the Nigerian project.”