The National Chairman of Delta Central for 2023, popularly known as DC-23, Mr. Ighoyota Amori, says what is utmost in the state chapter of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party is how it will rule Delta forever He warned that only candidate from Ibori political family would emerge governor in the state come 2023. Amori stated this on Saturday when the DC-23 group paid a courtesy visit to a prominent leader of the Ijaw nation and Prime Minister of Tuomo Kingdom, Mike Loyibo, in Burutu Local Government area of Delta State to solicit the support of the Ijaw nation for an Urhobo governor. The chairman of the group urged the Ijaw nation to jettison their governorship pursuit and allow Urhobo, “based on the principles of power rotation” among three Senatorial Districts in the State. Amori said, “I have been in this politics since the beginning. I was the General Overseer of the Chief James Ibori political family. “Everyone that has become governor after Chief James Ibori, such as Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan and Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, are my brothers from the same family. “Ordinarily, I am not contesting for governor, so don’t misquote me. What we are after is how PDP will rule in Delta forever. “We are not concerned about what is happening in the centre. Our concern is Delta — how we can maintain the victory we secured in the state in 1999. “We know that all the time, people from all over the state have always contested for the governorship position. But always, it is only the one favoured by divine intervention, based on the principle of zoning, that always emerges. “The governorship zoning has never been on ethnicity basis but on senatorial basis. If you believe you can lay claim to it, the Isoko man is from the South, he can claim it too. The Ndokwa man can say it is Ika that went, it should be our turn now. “We are not here to stop you or here to force you, because it is your right; but we have come to appeal to you to allow us go and when it is your turn, we will support you and that time, no Urhobo man will raise his head to contest. “Remember also that nobody has disobeyed the zoning arrangement and has ever succeeded. We tried it twice and failed; that’s why I am appealing to you to let this rotation flow.” In his remark, Loyibo told the group that governor Ifeanyi Okowa, who is the leader of the Peoples Democratic Party in the State, has a role to play on who succeeds him in 2023, urging Urhobos to be patient with the governor to give a headway on where the next governor should come from. “The DC-23 has a very valid argument. But the Ijaw governorship is rooted in every Ijaw man. There is only one shepherd and the governor is the current shepherd of the PDP political family in Delta State. “Whatever the governor decides, I will fully support. I’m not a man that can be intimidated by anyone. What I say, I have the capacity and resources to back it,” he said.