The Federal Capital Territory Administration on Thursday advised residents to stop rearing livestock within residential areas in the Federal Capital Territory. The Director, Department of Monitoring and Inspection, Mrs. Aisha Bello, gave the instruction during a joint monitoring exercise with relevant secretariats, departments and agencies of the FCT. Bello said that the department put together a joint monitoring exercise to address some environmental issues around public facilities within the city centre. She warned that residents must stop the act of indiscriminate waste disposal, cutting of trees, adding “we need to take care of the environment so that it can take care of us.’’ Represented by Mr. Omotayo Ogunkuade, the Head of Feedback and Implementation of the department, advised residents to be mindful of the effects of climate change and treat their surroundings with the respect it deserved. Bello, who stated that government could not be everywhere, urged citizens to take responsibility for their actions, especially where it had to do with public facilities that were meant to make lives easier. She advised residents to liaise with the Department of Parks And Recreation to ensure that overgrown trees are pruned to avoid falling on houses, cars, and electrical equipment during storms. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that at the Jabi Mall side of the Lake, the monitoring team observed that it was littered with waste. Bello, therefore, advised the managers of ShopRite to ensure that the part of the surrounding was put to use for the environment to be clean at all times. The Management of Shoprite agreed that they would ensure the usage of that part of the Lake to avoid littering. Similarly, at the Kubwa Railway Station, the team observed a worrisome trend of vandalism by hoodlums and the dumping of refuse along the Idu-Kubwa Railway corridor. The team suggested that environmental health officials should partner with the railway authorities to sensitise the community. The team also advised that security agencies should be involved in patrolling the railway line to stop the activities of vandals. NAN reports that the FCT Secretariat and agencies involved in the monitoring exercise include the Abuja Environmental Protection Board, Satellite Town Development Department, Area Council Service Secretariat, Abuja Municipal Area Council, and Transportation Secretariat. (NAN)