A former Surveyor-General of the Federation, Dr Ebisintei Awudu, has been arraigned by the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission, for the alleged fraudulent diversion of N2.8bn. Awudu was brought before Justice Olusegun Adeniyi, of the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory, Maitama, on 22 counts bordering on abuse of office, gratification and virement, which contravened Sections 19, 10(a)(i) and 22(5) of the Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act, 2000. According to the charge, in 2017 and 2018, Awudu used his position as the Surveyor-General of the Federation to confer unfair advantage upon a relation and associate by awarding five different contracts totalling about N809m to Geolev Nigeria Limited. Awudu  was said to be a director in the company at the time, while his half-brother and other associates are still directors. It was also alleged that Awudu collected the sum of N1,253,428,269 (as gratification) from various contractors handling projects for the Office of the Surveyor-General of the Federation. The defendant pleaded not guilty when the charge was read to him, as his Counsel, F. B. Orogun, urged the court to consider Awudu’s medical condition and grant him bail on liberal terms. However, the counsel for ICPC, Wahab Shittu, opposing the bail application, saying there was likelihood that the defendant would evade trial. Justice Adeniyi, after careful consideration, granted Awudu bail in the sum of N100m with one surety in like sum. “The surety must be a Nigerian citizen employed in the civil service of the federation or any of the agencies of the government, or in the service of the Federal Capital Territory Administration or any of its agencies. The surety shall not be below the rank of a Permanent Secretary or Director-General of a government agency. “He shall deposit all international traveling documents with the senior registrar of the court throughout the duration of the case. The defendant shall be kept in the detention facility of ICPC pending the fulfillment of the bail conditions,” the judge ruled. Justice Adeniyi subsequently adjourned the matter to September 13, 14, 16 and 17, 2021 for commencement of trial. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com