Most couples are ill informed about the impact of couples counselling which is a form of therapy that helps couples identify the reasons for their marital problems and find ways to improve them. The truth is that counselling does not only provide the support for a failing marriage, but it also helps couples who are enjoying marital bliss to take regular inventory of their marriages so that they can continue to improve and enjoy their relationship too. Time is of essence For some couples, therapy is associated with dysfunctional people and not something their presumed “normal” people should be associated with and for others who may have a better understanding, it can also be seen as a demeaning process of exposing their problems to a stranger who may share it with others. Professional therapist is trained to keep every detail discussed confidential and work in the best interest of the couple. Many couples who should be seeking help through counselling will continue to suffer in silence due to the stigma associated with it and are more likely to experience marital isolation and depression. Most couples who need therapy will often make the decision to seek help when it is too late, and the reality of separation may be the best option then. Take responsibility in time Counselling can be most effective when it is done at the right time and seeking help in time when things are going downhill in your marriage is your own way of taking responsibility and accepting that you are at a breaking point and divorce is looming if you are not ready to rescue your marriage. Your admission will not only have a positive impact on your future together but also help to mitigate the effect the situation may be having on your individual wellbeing and the traumatising effects on your children. Put a strategy in place If marriage is a learning journey, it is only sensible that different couples will need various levels of guidance to help them navigate the challenges that can present themselves along the way. It is important to have a coach who can quickly stir you in the right direction. Marriage therapy is also a form of coaching to help you identify the roots of your challenges early in your marriage and equip you with the skills to resolve them. Couples who attend regular therapy sessions together learn to understand each other’s behaviours better and how best to compromise and recognise triggers than can expose their unpleasant sides too. Do not suffer in silence Some challenges in marriage can be long standing and become normal when a couple has made their decision to continue staying together like strangers without seeking help. The lack of intimacy and affection in marriage is one of the challenges many couples often face but find it uncomfortable to discuss their private lives with a third party despite the distress they may be facing. Most couples can remain in this situation for a long time feeling rejected and resentful when all the pleasures they once shared slowly disappear and they continue to live in a loveless marriage. You do not have to suffer in silence. You can both take the courage and seek professional help in time. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com