Fertility experts have warned that excessive donation of eggs by young ladies could cause their ovaries to shut down, thereby making it impossible for them to bear children when they are ready. The fertility experts who spoke with PUNCH HealthWise said ladies who donate their eggs more than six times are at risk of serious health complications, which include the shutting down of their ovaries. Egg donation is important in assisted reproduction and crucial to the treatment of infertility in women who are unable to produce eggs. It entails a woman donating her eggs to another woman who doesn’t have them. Egg donation helps couples with infertility issues relating to either poor quality or no eggs to achieve pregnancy. Experts are, however, warning that when overdone, egg donation can be a big risk to the donor. Speaking with PUNCH HealthWise, a fertility expert, Dr. AdelekeDaramola, warned that the ovaries of a donor could shut down, due to the hormonal injections that such egg donors are given repeatedly. “Due to the fact that ladies who volunteer to donate are under injections, it is not advisable for them to donate more than six times in their lifetime. “Because if they donate more than that, those hormonal injections can take over their system and can cause total shutdown of their ovaries. “You know they also have a future and it might be difficult for them to have their own children when they are ready. We normally advise them against going everywhere to donate. “They shouldn’t donate more than six times in their lifetime,” he said. Daramola, however, disclosed that there has been an increase in the number of young ladies who donate very often. He is worried that such careless donations can affect their lives. He said, “The problem now is that most girls nowadays, maybe they are too generous or they are okay with the compensation being given to them, they like to donate more and more often and that can affect them.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com