Infinity Microfinance Bank Limited has unveiled its new brand identity after expanding its operations, with over 40 branches in Lagos State. A statement on Wednesday said during the unveiling, the founder and the pioneer Managing Director of the bank, Mrs Clara Oloniniyi, said the bank unveiled a new logo to appreciate its unending growth, vibrancy and success. “This followed the successful 20 years of doing microfinance business in Nigeria,” she said. Oloniniyi, who is now the group managing director said Infinity MfB was established in 2001 but kicked off its microfinance business as savings collector and money lender. She said the bank witnessed a smooth and steady transformation, adding, “Infinity Microfinance Bank Limited transformed from savings collector and money lenders to community bank in 2005 with the required N5m capital base. “In 2007, the Federal Government proscribed community banks and came up with microfinance banks. Infinity Microfinance Bank also got the licence with required N20m capital base. “However, today, I am proud to announce to Nigerians that the Infinity Microfinance Bank Limited is now a state microfinance bank, operating on over N1bn capital base. This microfinance bank is the 14th microfinance bank that was licensed by the Central Bank of Nigeria in 2007.” According to her, the bank will continue to assist traders with loans required to kick off good business. One of the shareholders of the MfB, Mr Jonathan Abaniwonda, commended the bank for standing tall among other microfinance banks. The Chief Consultant of the bank, Mr Oloniniyi Tope, said the bank still aspired to become a national microfinance bank soon. “As the chief consultant to the bank, visibility studies on ways to hit such target in short time as kicked off,” he said. He, however, appealed to the Federal Government to consider post-COVID -19 interventions for microfinance banks so they could improve on the financial empowerment to the active poor Nigerians. “I want to appeal to Buhari to ensure support MfBs with easy loans without complicated requirements for accessing the funds,” he said. Tope said with the new unveiled logo, the bank was ready to do more exploits. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com