Commonwealth Farmers, a UK-based data management firm with goals of providing business solutions for agricultural markets especially in Africa, has announced plans to partner with the South West Farmers Association of Nigeria to provide digital and financial support for Nigerian farmers. This was disclosed in a meeting with the UK Department of International Trade at the British Consulate, Lagos. In a statement, Acting Managing Director of CwF Nigeria, Ibrahim Shelleng, disclosed that the firm will educate Nigerian farmers on the improvement and storing of seeds, farming techniques and the use of technology to boost production. Shelleng said, “We are currently in the process of acquiring 3000 trucks from a UK company and are in partnership with other UK companies to build tracking applications and develop smart phones with financial apps which will also help these farmers with funding. “We are partnering with UK TAG who are breeding specialists and with WellCrop Group which will be providing organic fertilizers; all in all, providing synergy between the UK and Nigeria, after which we will be replicating the Nigerian story across Africa. “Our first port of call in Nigeria is with the South-West Farmers Association of Nigeria with an excellent structure, formidable strength and enterprising leadership with deep knowledge of practical agribusiness, ‘agripreneurialship’ and wealth creation.” SWEFAN President, Tai Oyekan, said the partnership would kick off in South-West Nigeria by September with hopes of replicating its success in other zones of the country and across Africa. Oyekan said, “The CwF has conceptualised three smart model farms to take off by September 2021 in the region with plans to replicate in other zones of Nigeria and other African countries such as Ghana, Liberia, Angola and Zambia in the nearest future. “These first three model farms are located in Yewa LGA, Ogun State (1,000ha) in association with SWEFAN/GreenSource Agro; Esa Oke Farm Settlement, Obokun LGA (10,000ha), and the new College of Agriculture, Fisheries & Food Technology, Ijeda-Ijesha, Oriade LGA, Osun State (1,000ha).” Nigeria Trade Adviser/Agricultural and Mining Sector Lead for the UK Department of International Trade, Oluwaseyi Adepoju, said that the DIT would provide support to ensure the success of the partnership. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com