The proposed national convention of the All Progressives Congress earlier slated for September may not hold until much later in the year. This followed the decision of the APC Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee, to postpone the party’s ward, local government area and state congresses indefinitely. The congresses at the ward, LGA and state levels are required to elect delegates to vote in the national convention. The decision to put the congresses on hold was contained in a letter dated July 6, 2021, signed by the Chairman and Secretary of the party, Governor Mai Mala Buni, and Senator John James Akpanudoedehe, respectively and addressed to the Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission. A copy of the letter which is in public space on Saturday read in part, “We refer to our letter reference number APC/NHDQ/INEC/19/021/20, dated 10, June, 2021, on the above subject and wish to inform the commission that the party has rescheduled its congresses and national convention to a later date which will be communicated to you. “This serves as a formal notification pursuant to the provisions of section 85 of the Electoral Act (2010) as amended. “While hoping to receive your cooperation, please accept the assurance of my highest esteem,” the party said. The recently released APC timetable and schedule of activities by the party’s Director of Organization, Professor Al-Mustapha Ussiju Medaner, earlier announced that the sale of nomination forms would begin from 1st and end by July 7, 2021. The party also announced July 10, 2021 as the date for the inauguration of ward/LGA congress screening/screening appeal committees. Ward congresses were to begin on July 24, LGA congresses August 14, 2021, while state congresses were slated for September 18, 2021. The National Secretary of the APC, Senator John Akpanudeodehe, while confirming the authenticity of the letter written to INEC, explained that the letter was intended to postpone the congresses not to ensure that the party remained on the side of the law by notifying the electoral body of its activities. He said, “The above document in circulation does not intend a postponement of the congresses. How it leaked from INEC is strange. “It is to cure the legal land mine occasioned by Section 85 of the Electoral Act on the issuance of 21 Days’ notice to INEC, bearing in mind that the earlier date we released was not sacrosanct.” The spokesman for the Concerned APC Members, a pressure group within the party, Abdullahi Dauda, said the group was not in the least surprised about the turn of events. He said, “We are not surprised at all. This script has been written long ago, those occupying the APC national secretariat at the moment have no plan to leave any time soon. “We will soon meet and take a decision. This party was formed with the sweat and blood of many Nigerian patriots, we will not abandon it for those who came only after the struggle ended. The APC is a party built on the rule of law, every member who is holding public office today swore to uphold the constitution of the party and that of Nigeria, we will not support illegality.” The party had last week announced a two-weeks extension for the membership registration and revalidation exercise in Kwara, Ogun and Imo states. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com