Supporters of wanted Yoruba activist Sunday Adeyemo also known as Sunday Igboho, on Wednesday, marched to the palace of the Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Saliu Adetunji, and demanded, amongst other things, the release of 13 of Igboho’s guards and close associates who were arrested last Thursday when the Department of State Services raided the Ibadan residence of the Yoruba nation agitator. The youths also want the government to pay the N500m damages as requested by Igboho’s lawyer for the destruction of his house and property during the invasion. A representative of the youths, whose name was unknown as of the time of filing this report, addressed the monarch who was seated. The youth leader said, “You are our father, we do not know any governor or politician and we do not recognise them as our leaders. You are the only leader that we recognise and we know you have the authority to make them meet our demands. “We want you to tell the DSS to reverse its declaration that Igboho is on its watch list. We want you to tell them to declare that Igboho is no more on its watch list. We want this done within seven days. “We also give the DSS seven days to release all those arrested during the raid. “Furthermore, we demand justice on Adogan and Alfa who were killed by DSS operatives during the midnight invasion. “We give the government seven days to meet our demands or else we will come up with a mass action. We are not afraid of any DSS operative. We speak on behalf of 60 million Yoruba people. If DSS operatives can arrest 60 million Yoruba people, they should come around. We want our demands met within seven days.” “After now, we will march to the palace of all Yoruba monarchs to make our demands known,” he added. Responding on behalf of the Olubadan, his Personal Assistant on Media, Adeola Oloko, said, “Igboho is no stranger to the king. The king has heard all your requests and will take the necessary steps as you leave here now. He will call his fellow kings and other stakeholders.” The monarch, who listened to the whole session while seated, simply blessed the youths who dispersed thereafter. Earlier, the youths had taken to the streets of Ibadan, the state capital, to protest last Thursday’s midnight raid by the secret police on Igboho’s residence. The protesters took off from Igboho’s house in the Sooka area of Ibadan around 12 noon on Wednesday and marched into the streets, chanting, “No retreat, no surrender!”, “Oodua Nation!”, “Sunday Igboho is not a criminal!” amongst other phrases, just as they carried placards displaying similar phrases. The PUNCH had earlier reported that the DSS invaded the residence of Igboho in a Gestapo style around 1am on Thursday. Though Igboho had escaped the raid, his house and cars were riddled with bullets while bloodstains splattered over the floors of the house. The DSS also said it killed two of his associates in a gun duel. The secret police had since declared Igboho wanted. The activist is being accused of stockpiling weapons to allegedly destabilise the country under the guise of agitation for Yoruba nation but he has since denied the allegation, saying he protects himself with charms and not weapons. Presidential spokesman, Garba Shehu, on Tuesday, lauded the raid. He said Igboho is a militant who conducts acts of terror, adding that the regime won’t condone any act by secessionists. However, the DSS raid had been condemned by many Nigerians including human rights lawyer, Femi Falana, SAN, who described it as a “nocturnal coup”, arguing that no law in Nigeria allows security agents to arrest anyone in the dead of the night. Also, Nobel Laureate, Prof. Wole Soyinka, had condemned the invasion which he described as “bizarre”. Similarly, Southern governors, on Monday, resolved that security agencies must notify them as the chief security officer of their states before they carry out any operation within their domain.