The Kano State Hisbah Board, on Wednesday, disclosed that it had so far succeeded in apprehending no fewer than 20 underage children sleeping under bridges, in markets and motor parks during a surprise raid. Confirming this to journalists, the Commander-General, Hisbah Board, Sheikh Harun Ibn Sina, stated that the children were evacuated from the streets following an undercover operation carried out by Hisbah personnel in the metropolis. According to him, the majority of the children, who claimed to have sneaked into Kano from neighbouring states and villages, confessed that they depended on begging as a means of livelihood and survival. The commander-general disclosed that adequate arrangements were being made to reunite the children with their families as the Kano State Government had outlined measures to stamp out street begging. In addition, Ibn Sina stated that as part of efforts to protect children, the state government had forwarded a draft Child Protection Bill to the state House of Assembly to guarantee the rights of children against all forms of child labour and molestation. “The Kano State Hisbah Board is calling on parents as Allah (SAW) has appointed them as custodians as about 20 underage children were found living under the bridges, in markets and motor parks. They roam from street to street in search of means of livelihood; they don’t go to school as they live freely without any supervision,” he stated. During an interview with some of the children, they pleaded for leniency and expressed the desire to be reunited with their families. “We sleep together in markets; sometimes we move to motor parks and under bridges. We beg for money to procure food, so as to keep our bodies and souls together; and sometimes carry bulky goods for customers to their vehicles or homes for pittance,” one of them said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com