The Federal Government on Saturday returned a Swiss vessel, MT San Padre Pio, which was arrested on the Nigerian waterways in 2018, to the Swiss government. The PUNCH earlier reported that the Federal Government agreed to release the Swiss-flagged San Padre Pio oil tanker that was seized in January 2018. Switzerland’s foreign ministry had made this known in a press statement on its website on May 20, titled, ‘Switzerland and Nigeria sign an agreement for the release of the vessel San Padre Pio.’ According to the statement, this followed the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding by the Swiss Federal Department of Foreign Affairs and the Federal Ministry of Justice of Nigeria. On Saturday, the Commander of the Nigerian Navy Ship, NNS Pathfinder, Commodore Abdullahi Ahmed, a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Samuel Ojo, and the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, handed over the vessel to the Swiss government on behalf of the Nigerian government. Malami, who spoke at the event, said the return of the vessel would strengthen the ties between Nigeria and Switzerland. According to him, the ship was captured on the Nigerian waterways when it was found without the relevant permits. He said, “This process started in January 2018 when MT San Padre Pio was arrested. “While the Ministry of Justice was deliberating how to release the vessel unconditionally due to the diplomatic relationship between Nigeria and Switzerland, the Swiss government went to the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea in Germany, on the matter of which the Tribunal ordered Switzerland to enter a bail bond of $14m (N5.8bn) in favour of Nigeria for the crew members to be released in line with Nigerian laws.” During this period, Malami said the case was also going on at the Federal High Court in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. “During this process, Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo and that of Switzerland met and agreed that the case should be resolved diplomatically due to the bilateral relationship between both countries. “Negotiations went ahead and on May 20, 2021, an MoU was signed between the Federal Government and the Swiss government to release MT San Padre Pio unconditionally and allow it to depart Nigeria without hindrance and that the case at the International Tribunal should be withdrawn and the one in the Nigerian court should be closed. “All these have been achieved and that is why we are here to officially release the vessel to the Swiss government,” Malami added. The Deputy Director of International and Comparative Law, Federal Ministry of Justice, Francis Ojo, represented the AGF at the event. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com