The United Nations Industrial Development Organization has partnered with the Federal Ministry of Environment and the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria to foster industrial energy efficiency in Nigeria. UNIDO declared its commitment towards improving IEE and resource efficiency and cleaner production in the country during a workshop in Lagos. The Minister for Environment, Dr Mohammed Abubakar, represented by the ministry’s Director, Pollution and Control, Charles Ikea, said the successful application of IEE and RECP contributed to global efforts aimed at controlling negative impacts on the planet coming from the use of natural resources in production, generation of industrial pollutants and greenhouse gas emissions. He said, “This project will make significant contributions to Nigeria’s quest for the reduction of GHG emissions from industrial facilities and impact positively on our nationally determined contribution. It will create cleaner and more efficient production processes and energy efficiency that would improve industries’ resilience in uncertainties of energy costs. “It will also increase the competitiveness of manufacturing companies in the country, place the country’s economy on a low-carbon path, and enable Nigeria to fulfil its obligations under the various multilateral agreements that she is a signatory to.” The Director-General, MAN, Mr Segun Ajayi-Kadir, who was represented by Dr Oluwasegun Osidipe, said the cost of generating alternative energy for the industry was high, at about 30 per cent of the production cost. He said the cost of sourcing energy from the national grid and tariff increments by distribution companies without improved service delivery was not business-friendly. He said the introduction of the energy management system and energy system optimisation that could sustainably reduce manufacturers’ energy consumption and incurred costs was a solution the industry needed. An environmental expert at UNIDO, Mr Oluyomi Banjo, while delivering a lecture, said, “RECP Is concerned with the efficient use of materials, water and energy by industries in the minimisation of their wastes, effluents and emissions including greenhouse gases while fostering safe and responsible production of goods and services. “It will increase efficiency and reduce risks to humans and the environment, increased productivity and reduce operational costs, optimise investments in the sector, minimise environmental compliance costs, reduced business risks and create a smaller carbon footprint.” The Managing Director Bank of Industry, Mr Kayode Pitan, promised to support the project, saying supporting industrial growth was a key mandate of the organisation. Pitan, who was represented by Mr Leonard Kange, said the bank had set up a special renewable energy fund to finance green energy projects. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com