The Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency, on Sunday, said the severe flood that submerged about 300 buildings in several communities in Jalingo, the Taraba State capital was due to heavy downpour in the affected locations. NIHSA denied reports alleging that the flood was aggravated by the release of water from the Cameroonian Lagdo Dam built within the Cameroonian portion of River Benue. The Director-General, NIHSA, Clement Nze, explained in an email he sent to our correspondent that the flood reportedly submerged business centres, vehicles, worship centres and schools. He said, “NIHSA wishes to emphatically state that the flash flood was caused by localised heavy downpour that occurred from the night of Friday, July 9, till around 4am on Saturday, July 10, 2021 in Mayo Goi area of Jalingo town. “However, report from the NIHSA Yola Office stated that the poor or lack of drainage systems, buildings erected within the flood paths, etc., aggravated the flood, and not the release of any water from Lagdo Dam in Cameroon.” Nze said at this period of the year, impoundment of water into the Lagdo Dam in Cameroon for hydropower generation was still in progress. He said under normal circumstances, it was usually around the third week of September that the Lagdo Dam reservoir approached an elevation of 213m. “Spillage of water can only take place once the reservoir level approaches 216m. Therefore, no release of water from Lagdo Dam ever took place,” he said. He added, “For purposes of clarity, it should be noted that Jalingo in Taraba State is downstream Adamawa State. “Before any flood arising from the release of water from Lagdo Dam could submerge any town in Taraba State, the following towns in Adamawa State, upstream Taraba State, would have been submerged and they include Wuroboki, Lau, Jimeta, Ibbi, Numan, Yola, etc, all in Adamawa State.” NIHSA said in its prediction and issuance of flood early warning alerts in Nigeria, it had earlier in the year predicted that Yorro, Gassol, Ardo-Kola, Lau, Jalingo, Wukari, all in Taraba State, were within the Highly Probable Flood Risk LGAs in Nigeria in 2021. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com