The Imo State Commissioner of Police, Abutu Yaro, has ordered an investigation into the killing of a pastor with the Redeemed Christian Church of God in the state, Thompson Onyekwuru. The 62-year-old cleric was allegedly stabbed to death on Wednesday, July 14, by one Obumneke Omyemechileuzo of Umukoto- Umudibia Nekede in the Owerri West Local Government Area of the state. Obumneke allegedly stabbed the pastor when the victim went to separate a fight between him (suspect) and his wife, Ogechi Onyemechileuzo. A statement by the state Police Public Relations Officer, Mike Abattam, stated that while the suspect also died, his wife sustained injuries. The statement read, “We received a distress call on July 14, around 2pm at the Divisional Police Headquarters, Nekede, Owerri, Imo State, that one Obumneke Onyemechileuzo, 36, suspected to be of unsound mind and armed with a kitchen knife, was violently beating his wife, Ogechi Onyemechileuzo, 26, over a minor domestic issue. When a pastor with the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Owerri, lmo State, Pastor Thompson Onyekwuru, 62, intervened by stopping him from stabbing his wife, the suspect rushed at him, stabbed him in his back and he fell unconscious. “On arrival at the scene, the police team saw the suspect seriously beating his wife and threatening to stab her. On sighting the police, he attempted stabbing one of the officers in the neck and he was shot in the leg in self-defence. He fell and was immediately disarmed. “The victims and the suspect were rushed to Rosana Hospital Nekede, where the doctor on call referred them to the Human Race Hospital, Nekede Road, Owerri, due to the gravity of the injuries they sustained. The pastor and the suspect were confirmed dead. The woman was admitted to the intensive care unit of the hospital and she is responding to treatment.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com