A medical doctor working with General Hospital Ugwolawo, in the Ofu Local Government Area, Solomon Nidiamak, has been kidnapped by gunmen in Kogi State. It was gathered that the doctor was taken away by the kidnapers around 8.30am from the hospital on Monday. A statement by the Kogi State Chairman, Nigeria Medical Association, Dr Omakoji Oyiguh, and the association secretary, Dr Famotele   Talorunju, confirmed the incident. The statement reads partly, “We call on the government of Kogi State and all security agencies to work very hard towards his (Nidiamak) early and safe release”. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, (PPRO), in Kogi State, DSP William Ovye Aya said the command is not aware of the kidnap of Dr Solomon Nidiamaka. He however promised to get back to our correspondent when he receive first hand information from the Divisional Police Officer, DPO in Ofu Local Government of Kogi State. Punch recalls that kidnapping has been on the increase in Kogi State in recent times with an average of at least one reported case everyday in the last two weeks Recently, a traditional ruler who recently regained freedom was kidnapped at the central senatorial district while a pharmacist was also whisked away to an unknown destination  at the western senatorial district. That is not all, a pastor and his wife was also kidnapped and their whereabouts is still unknown as at the time of filing this report. Recall also that the former Provost Marshall of the Nigeria Army , Major General Ahmed Hassan was shot dead at Abaji,a boundary town between Kogi state and Abuja. Efforts to get the state police commissioner,CP Ayuba Ede proved abortive as he did not respond to a message asking for confirmation of the incident. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com