The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) on Tuesday joined his kinsmen in Daura, Katsina State to observe the Eid-El- Kabir prayers. The event took place at the Kofar Arewa Prayer ground and was led by the Chief Imam of the town, Alhaji Safiyanu Yusuf. President Buhari dressed in a Skye blue flowing robe, arrived the prayer ground at 10am in a black limousine. The prayers started immediately thereafter. The Emir of Daura, Alhaji Umar Faruq who had earlier arrived at the prayer ground, offered prayers for the President and for Nigeria. Both the President and the Emir of Daura later exchanged kolanuts and slaughtered rams. Meanwhile, Governor Aminu Masari and the Emir of Katsina, Dr Abdulmumin Kabir also observed Sallah prayers in Katsina, the state capital on Tuesday. I feel strongly about the NYSC In a related development, Buhari said it was better for Nigeria to remain united. He said this in Daura when selected of the National Youth Service Corps serving in the town paid him a Sallah visit. The President also said the NYSC scheme had helped in promoting unity in Nigeria. He said the diversity in the cultures and ethnics of Nigerians had been a source of strength. He said, “Not only in the cultural differences but also physical differences and this is what makes Nigeria. That is why I feel strongly about NYSC. I assure you that Nigerian is better as one.” The President donated two bulls, 20 bags of rice and N1m to the corps members. Yahaya, Goje preach sacrifice, unity Meanwhile, the Gombe State Governor, Muhammadu  Yahaya, on Tuesday observed the two Raka’at Eid prayer at the central Eid praying ground in Gombe. He was joined by  former governor Danjuma Goje, Minister of Communications and Digital Economy,  Dr Isa Pantami; Speaker of the state House of Assembly Abubakar Luggerewo; and members of both federal and state legislatures. They joined the Emir of Gombe,  Abubakar Shehu lll  at the prayer ground. In his sermon, the Chief Imam of Gombe Central Mosque, Sheikh Mohammed Pindiga, called on Nigerians to translate the good virtues of Eid el-Kabir into the art of nation building through obedience to constituted authorities and sacrifice for the good of all. Yahaya later called on Muslims to sacrifice more for the corporate existence of the country and in the spirit of the season. He said, “The virtue of Eid El-Kabir which connotes love, obedience and sacrifice are needed for the corporate existence of the country and for individual relationships so that Nigerians can leave together as brothers and sisters.” At the Palace of the Emir of Gombe, Yahaya and other dignitaries were treated to a colourful durbar. In his message to mark the religious festival, the Emir of Gombe called for sustained prayers for the nation and its leaders. In Niger Sate, Governor Abubakar Bello, called for prayers for peace and for security agents. He spoke after the Eid prayer in Minna, the state capital. He said, “Nigerians must pray for peace and the security agencies so that they can restore normalcy to the country.” Also, General Ibrahim Babangida and General Abdulsalami Abubakar, urged bandits to desist from their ungodly acts. Similarly, the Governor of Borno State, Prof. Babagana Zulum, Senator representing Borno Central, Kashim Shettima, and the Inspector General of Police, Baba Alkali, led top government officials and other Muslim faithful to perform two Rak’at Eid prayers at Ramat Square, Maiduguri, on Tuesday. The Shehu of Borno, Alhaji Garbai Elkanemi, Senator representing Southern Borno, Mohammed Ali Ndume, Chief Whip of the House of Representative, Mohammed Monguno, Speaker of Borno State House of Assembly, Abdulkarim Lawan and the State APC Chairman, Ali Bukar Dalori, were among dignitaries that were also prayer ground. The prayer was led by Imam Idaini of Borno, Shettima Saleh,  who urged Muslim faithful to pray for peace to return to the state and the country at large. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com