The Nigerian Regional Director, Hope For Us Charity, USA, Dr Michael Ajidahun, speaks to GODFREY GEORGE about hypertension, especially in youths, and its remedies Is hypertension the same thing as high blood pressure? Basically, hypertension is high blood pressure. There are values of measurement before one can say one’s blood pressure is high or low. Hypertension is when the figure on top is more than 130 and the figure below more than 80. So, when one checks one’s blood pressure and the figure is not 130/80, then, one can say one has become hypertensive. What might cause this condition, for someone’s blood pressure to be higher than 130/80? There are a lot of things that can cause the condition. We can begin with lifestyle. When one’s diet is overly salted, that might be a serious problem, too. If someone has a habit of smoking, that is another risk factor. All that can be put under an unhealthy lifestyle. Stress, too, can be a factor. People with issues with their internal organs, like kidneys, also risk having this condition. There is something in the neck of humans called the thyroid gland. If it becomes swollen, then that can also be a factor. All these can be contributors to this condition. It is also worthy of note that there are some hypertensions that happen and one cannot really trace the root cause of the condition. It may be as a result of some underlying conditions like diabetes. Is it hereditary? Yes, it is hereditary. This is how it goes. We know that hypertension brings in the issue of family risk. This means if one person in your lineage has the condition, it can increase your chances of also developing the condition as time goes. In a family where there is the condition, the offspring are most likely to also develop the condition; it just increases the risk of having it. It is not a must that the offspring would have it. What one needs to do is modify one lifestyle to be much healthier. Can we call hypertension a disease? Well, yes. We can call it a disease. It presents itself as one. You spoke of an enhanced lifestyle for these people with high risk of the condition. What exactly do you think they should do and/or shouldn’t do? First thing is to watch one’s diet. A lot of what we eat in this part of the world is very rich in salt and fat. One who wants a healthy lifestyle should not go that route if he wants to live a healthy life. We have nutritionists and dieticians that can help one create special diets at special times, and help improve these things as time goes on. Since salt increases the chances of having hypertension, it would be a good thing you reduce the salt intake. You don’t have to smear all your meal in salt; it doesn’t even make it tastier. If the person is one the big side, (s)he may have to lose some weight so as to also not become obese. Obesity has also been seen as another condition that increases one’s chances of having the condition. Alcohol needs to go down. All forms of smoking have to go – marijuana, cannabis, tobacco. No one should deceive you that anyone is better than the other; they are the same and they are deadly. Lifestyle modification is what is needed, basically. Eat way healthier, exercise and drink lots and lots of water. People underestimate the power of water. Drink a lot of water and you will feel refreshed and ready to face the day’s activities. How do you think low-income families are going to be able to cope with this strict diet and lifestyle package? Dieting is not very cheap, but it is not expensive. In a country like Nigerian when healthcare is not free, one had better prevent a condition than let it hit one. The rule still applies to everyone, the rich and the poor alike. If you are rich, I feel, you may even have more access to eating junk food and the likes. Vegetables like pumpkin are not that expensive. Buy some crayfish and some fish and your meal is ready. It depends on how you want to live your life. Also, I would advise people to go for regular check-ups, so as to start management if the condition is detected. There are some drugs that one can be put on to help manage this condition, since it doesn’t have a permanent cure. At least, there is none that I know of. Though these drugs can be cost-intensive, one needs them to survive. That is one of the system failures that we have in Nigeria. Whether you are poor or rich, the protocol of handling and managing hypertension is the same. How long people with hypertension can live depends on how well they adhere to doctor’s instructions. Another thing is most of these low-income people may not be able to adhere to all these lifestyle packages, and it can be a very sad thing. The rich may have a nutritionist, personal trainer and dietician, but the poor may not have that luxury. Talking about the poor, there are cheaper options for these ‘drugs’ in traditional packages, hawked in major cities in Nigeria. Won’t they suffice? (Laughs) I don’t subscribe to the use of herbal concoctions and medicine. I don’t see the need to. A lot of people may say they used it and it worked. Well, these medicine mixtures have some medicinal content. The question now is, ‘Are you taking it in the right proportion and with the right mixture?’ That is the problem. They are not quantified. You don’t know if you are taking too much or too small. Some can even kill you. I don’t advise anyone to take those mixtures. We have seen a lot of Nigerian coming down with kidney and liver disease lately.  What do you think causes this? It is from herbal concoctions. Some can damage your heart and even your lungs. The logic of whether or not our forefathers used it is deeply flawed. We didn’t have enough technology to keep track of these things, so that was why we felt it was not killing them. No one should patronise these people who sell these coloured, poisonous substances. What symptoms do you think people should look out to know one is hypertensive? Firstly, hypertension is what we call a silent killer. It may not show any symptoms except the person has some organ problems. Sometimes, when one’s blood pressure goes very high, the person can start having headaches. Some may have chest pain. The person may begin to hear their heartbeat – this is what is known as palpitations. These are subtle signs that show that one’s blood pressure is getting high. If one begins to have swollen legs and hands, this may also be an indicator. This means the condition is already damaging an internal organ or two. Some even come down with a stroke, most times, this is fatal. Everyone should try to have their kit at home and monitor their blood pressure. Someone can have a blood pressure of 160/90 and tell you, “Doctor, I am feeling so fine.” So, how do you pick up these people? You know how hard the economy is these days and not everyone wants to go to the hospital. But at least, once in two weeks, look for a pharmacy and have your blood pressure checked. But based on the belief that what one fears has a way of catching up with one, many people don’t feel comfortable going for check-ups when they have no obvious sickness signs. It is a myth. It is not true.  A lot of people say, “What I don’t know will not kill me!” That is a very risky thing to say in a country like this. Most people would rather not know than go for regular check-ups and do know. This is not good. You checking your blood pressure all the time does not expose you to having blood pressure at all. It helps you to do what to do to avoid getting it higher than that. You spoke about stress as a risk factor. What would say about some young people who just sit at home and do nothing, but somehow, they are down with hypertension? Does worrying cause this condition? This is what we call hypertension in the young. When someone from 0-45 years develops the condition, they fall into this category. Drug use, especially the use of cocaine, is a major problem. Young people who engage in drug and substance abuse stand a risk of developing the condition. A lot of young people have also become diabetic, some are obese. There is the issue of family history, like I explained earlier. All these are factors as to why young people come down with the condition. Young people should learn to work out, to burn some fat and sweat. This helps the body a lot. At that point, your whole body is active and blood is circulating really well.  You need, at least, 30 minutes of exercise before you start your day. For people in cities like Lagos with high traffic, they need to really watch their blood pressure, because of the high environmental pollution. Just walk from your estate to the other estate. It is also worthy to note that there is no way anybody would be alive and not think, but when your thoughts enter into anxiety, all that can cause your blood pressure to rise. Also, you cannot just label someone hypertensive from just one visit. One may be anxious just by seeing a doctor. We call that ‘White coat hypertension’. Does this anxiety with doctors lead to hypertension in the long run or it goes away after then? White coat hypertension is just a thing. It does not lead to hypertension in the long run; at least, no research has proven that. This blood pressure rise does not mean one is hypertensive. It is also possible that one who has white coat hypertension may go on to develop hypertension in the long run. There is a possibility. Is there a cure, especially for young people? Don’t you think people may have been misdiagnosed of hypertension when what they presented was WCH? Hypertension does not have a cure, but it can be treated. If you begin to take any anti-hypertensive drugs as a result of misdiagnoses, then, the person would have to continue taking these drugs for life, so we all have to be very careful – both healthcare professionals and others. If you see that the blood pressure is getting under control, then you withdraw for a while, but that does not mean the person has been cured. It is a life-long thing and lasts for life. You cannot just start treatment when you are not sure of what the condition is. Also, please, get health insurance. It is not only for doctors. You are going to need it someday. Hypertension is not just for old people. Everyone has to be alert. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com