Mrs Adebimpe Omoba is a visually-impaired teacher working with Modupe Cole Memorial Child Care and Treatment Home School, Akoka, Lagos. She tells GODFREY GEORGE how she bounced back after losing her sight in 300 Level and attempted suicide twice How did you lose your sight? I was born in the 1980s. I grew up like every normal child. I had my sight. I attended regular primary and secondary schools. In 2001, I was admitted into the Department of Fisheries, Faculty of Agriculture, University of Ibadan for a Bachelor’s degree. It was in my third year, which is in 2003, that I lost my sight. It just happened. What do you mean by ‘it just happened’? I was going out and it was like someone turned off the light. It just went off. My vision, first, was blurry, and the next thing, it just went out. I was 23 years old at the time. Did you have any issue with your eyes before they completely ‘went off’? I was initially short-sighted. I had been on medicated glasses for a long time, before I lost my sight. Did you visit any hospital when you noticed you could not see again? The day before I lost my sight, I lost my glasses. So, on the day it happened, I was on my way to the hospital on the Island to get a replacement. That was on April 18, 2003. It was on a Good Friday. I cannot forget. I was approaching Iyana Ipaja when it happened. When I found out I couldn’t see any longer, I had to look for a way to call a friend who stayed around the area. I told her what happened and she came to pick me up. We went to see an optician that same day, who told me that my eyes had so much water and the water retention capacity was relaxed. That was his diagnosis at that time. After that day, I went to Eye Foundation, Ikeja, and was also diagnosed. The doctors did a lot of examinations and a series of tests. One of the doctors came out and told me that there was no hope that I would ever see again from the reports, so I should just learn how to cope with the condition. He said, “Accept the situation. There is no remedy.” I won’t forget his words. I went to two other hospitals in Ikeja and the same diagnosis was given. I went to the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi Araba, and did an eye scan and the result didn’t show anything was wrong with my eyes. How did this make you feel? It was not easy. I was so devastated. I was not blind from birth, so I was already used to the life of being independent. Now, I couldn’t move on my own around the house. I couldn’t even use the toilet on my own without someone coming in to assist me.  Initially, I couldn’t cook. So, you can just imagine. I just felt life could have no meaning without my physical sight, so I decided to end it all so I would rest. But, the man up there had other plans for me. God turned it around for something better. I didn’t know about blind education. I thought all hope was lost. On two occasions, I tried committing suicide. I took some drug overdose to end it all. Looking back now, I just thank God. I did a lot of things to just end it all. I was brought up to be an independent person and the thought of having to depend on people on the basic things I could do before made me go crazy. It broke my heart and I felt it was the end of the world. It was after five years of being visually impaired that I was introduced to the education for the blind. I made up my mind to go back to school. My mom really helped me out and enrolled me in a rehabilitation school, Nigerian Society for the Blind, Oshodi. It was there I got rehabilitated and got introduced to the ‘blind world’. I got introduced to how blind people relate and do things; how they read and write and a whole lot of other things. It was where I met my husband. He had come to do his National Youth Service. Before I finished my rehabilitation, I applied to the Joint Admission Matriculation Board to write the United Tertiary Matriculation Examination on April 4, 2009, to the University of Lagos to study Guidance and Counselling. There was a strike that year, because I was to resume in June, 2009, but I resumed in 2010. That was the beginning of another academic journey. Why Guidance and Counselling? I wanted to go into marriage counselling. I wanted to be a motivation to a whole lot of people that despite their disabilities, they can still find love and have a fulfilled married life. I wanted to be a role model to, not just people with disabilities, but everybody else, that happiness is everywhere. At that time, you were unmarried. What really inspired this dream in you? I met my husband while I was doing my rehabilitation, so I was engaged at the time I went back to school in UNILAG. Your husband is not visually-impaired. So, how did you know he was the right person for you when he came? I was scared when he came and told me he liked me. He was a corps member posted to the school to help us adapt our books to Braille form and teach us how to read Braille letters. He studied Linguistics at the University of Benin. I felt he was one of those boys who just wanted to get in between my legs and would dump me afterwards, so I was adamant and told him I wasn’t interested. He was so persistent; it was almost like harassment. I told him I couldn’t be with somebody like him. Did you feel inadequate or you were just being careful? I thought he was just playing with me. I just didn’t believe someone like him would want to be with someone like me. One day, he took my phone, copied my mother’s number and called her, telling her his intentions. That was what prompted something in me that he might be serious. On the day my mom came to pay me a visit, he also came to greet her. My mom immediately fell in love with him; he had an infectious personality. When he left, my mom began to pester me, asking me to consider his proposal as he was a good man. I still needed to be more convinced. How did you find studying as a visually-impaired person? It is not an easy task. It is not easy to read for the visually-impaired. It takes a lot of practice to perfect how to read the Braille letters. This is something I am still trying till date to perfect. You could see, then you began to use recommended glasses. After that, you lost your physical sight. What was it like during the transitioning period of learning how to live in this new world? It was not so easy at first. It is not a pleasant situation. To be honest, when it happened, I felt it was something that would be temporary. I felt that in a couple of days or weeks, I was going to regain my sight. As weeks turned into months, I became so devastated. Life seemed so meaningless. I snapped at every little instance. I was angry at life and at everyone in it, including myself. Nobody motivated me. One day, I said to myself that I found very little things that kept me sane; but don’t ask me about those things, as I would not tell it to anyone (laughs); at least, not for now. Till now, I hold onto those things. That was after three years. I just had to move on. I became so lively. I came out of my shell and began to live life to the fullest. You wouldn’t even know I couldn’t see with the way my voice is the loudest and my smile the widest. Did you have issues of physical, emotional or sexual abuse when people knew you were visually-impaired and wanted to take advantage of that? Physically, I was not abused. Men do come around me to tell me what men tell women, but I knew they didn’t have genuine intentions. All they wanted was to get down my pants. I built a high wall around myself. Even those with good intentions, I chased them away. I thought then that nobody would see me in this situation and want to be with me for life. Not until, my husband, Richard, came. When you were in UI, before all of this happened, how would you describe life? Growing up, we didn’t really have much. I was taught to always be content with what my parents could provide. I enjoyed my life to the fullest. When I was in UI, I was known for enjoying life in my own little way. What would you say is your greatest achievement, looking at your life now? To the glory of God, graduating from UNILAG gave me so much joy. I was already in 300 Level in UI when I lost my sight, so having to go back to school to get my first degree is something I really would say is a great feat for me. I went on to further my studies. I have a master’s degree in Educational Psychology and I would love to pursue my PhD. As for marriage, when I look at my background, I can say I am very fulfilled. We don’t have money yet, but we are so happy, because our hearts beat for each other. I have children and none is visually-impaired. All these make me so happy. What challenges did you face in UNILAG? To the sighted, when you had an examination, you would quickly read, wake up on the day of the exam, prepare and move to the hall. For the visually-impaired, it was not like that. Our kind of reading was very special. You had to get someone to use a midget to record your notes. It is not this era when phones are rampant. Buying a midget then was not something easy. This is one challenge with visually-impaired people. Our materials are not easily affordable, so if you have no help from people and you are poor, you may not be able to get an education. You have to listen to the recording and memorise it. That is how we prepare for exams. You cannot afford to go to the exam hall alone, because you wouldn’t be able to read alone; you’d need a reader to help you. I have had some very challenging moments when lecturers send my readers away from the examination hall and I would be so stranded and tense as the time moved fast. On those occasions, I am happy my course mates always came through for me. I made sure my readers were not from my faculty. They are either from pure science or Engineering. I remember we used to carry a typewriter to the examination hall. Navigating through to the lecture halls in those days was also a problem. Even though UNILAG was friendly, it was not too easy. Was there any preferential treatment for visually-impaired people? UNILAG made sure we were all given accommodation. We didn’t queue getting into a bus on campus; it was almost automatic. No matter how long the queue might be, you would be told to come to the front and be attended to. If you are also academically sound, you would be given scholarships. Did you get any scholarships when in school? Yes, I did get a few scholarships. It really helped me then. Have you been discriminated against as a result of your condition? The way society views people with disabilities is just funny. It is both funny and painful. For us to get on a bus, some conductors would not want to take us because ‘they don’t want trouble’. I keep wondering what trouble they talk about. The way some people look at us, as if we are sick with an infectious disease is another thing. I thank God that some Nigerians are so empathetic and help to make life a bit easier for us. If you come around where I work presently, I move around on my own. So, if we are used to a place, as visually-impaired people, we can navigate our way through. Has being visually-impaired changed your dreams, or have you always wanted to be a teacher? When I was sighted, I wanted to be a food scientist. But I didn’t make the cut-off mark so I was moved to Fisheries in the Faculty of Agriculture. We had the Faculty of Education just opposite us then. One day, in my second year, I told a few friends that I wished to move to Education and wished I had anyone who’d help me. I thank God that I lost my sight. You thank God that you lost your sight? Yes, are you surprised? I am happy it happened when it did, because it saved me from doing some kinds of things I was almost into. Did it have to be with men? (Laughs) No. I wouldn’t want to say so. It is in my past, and I don’t want to say more than that. People wanted to take advantage of the fact that I was young and friendly to do some kind of things that may have prevented me from achieving things I have achieved now. Everything happens for a reason. I am much happier now. If you had one wish to make, what would it be? I wish for my husband to get a job. Right now, he is not doing much. He is into online marketing and it doesn’t bring much home. I really love him and it pains me to see him at home even after spending so much time in the university and graduating. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com