Akwa Ibom leaders Vanguard has alleged that the Independent National Electoral Commission connived with the All Progressives Congress- Federal Government to ensure that the 2019 election results were not transmitted electronically. It said the Federal Government gave flimsy excuses for not being able to transmit the results electronically because of the fear of losing the election. Spokesman for the group, Senator  Anietie Okon, said this while speaking with newsmen on the proposed electoral amendment bill on Sunday. Okon, a chieftain of the People’s Democratic party in Akwa Ibom State, explained that the electoral management body gave Nigerians flimsy excuses in order to do the bidding of the ruling party. He said, “I am sure you are aware of the kite they are flying. After the committee has done its work, some people went and inserted something just to gauge the reactions of Nigerians. “I am happy that the Civil Society Organisations and well-meaning Nigerians have disowned what they say that they cannot send  polls’ results electronically. “We were all here the same INEC that said they did not have silver, when they conducted off season elections in Edo and Ondo states, the results were conducted electronically and everybody was happy with the outcome of the results. “The Electoral laws that were used to administer the 2019 elections were still the same law that was in place when the Edo, Ondo states elections were conducted. “Because of the fear of losing the 2019 election that was when they started denying and giving excuses until the government came up and said it was too late. “I still believe till today that INEC connived with the government of the day to ensure that the election results were not transmitted electronically.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com