The House of Representatives on Friday passed the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill, maintaining the controversial Clause 52(2) as presented amidst protests, especially by members of the minority caucus. The clause gives the Independent National Electoral Commission the discretion to determine when, where and how voting and transmission of results will be done. Clause 52(2) reads, “Voting at an election and transmission of result under this bill shall be in accordance with the procedure determined by the commission.” Several efforts to seek amendments to the clause had caused a crisis in the House, forcing the lawmakers to spend two days on the exercise. The passage of the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill at the House was stalled on Thursday, forcing the chamber to continue consideration of its clauses on Friday. The National Assembly does not hold plenary on Friday and the House was to begin the two-month annual recess on Thursday, but for the development. The Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, had to adjourn plenary till Friday when the INEC Chairman, Prof Mahmood Yakubu; and the Executive Vice Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Communications Commission, Prof Umar Danbatta, were to brief the chamber on the implications of having election results transmitted electronically. The House spent about two hours on Clause 52(2) of the bill as several attempts to have it amended were overruled by the Deputy Speaker, Ahmed Wase, who presided over the Committee of the Whole to consider the clauses of the bill. The clause caused a division in the House, with the lawmakers polarised along political and regional lines, causing rowdiness in the chamber for several hours, during which several lawmakers engaged themselves in shouting matches. As the exercise continued on Friday, security was tightened at the National Assembly, especially around the chamber of the House where access and movement were restricted. While officials of the NCC appeared before the House in plenary, INEC officials did not. Opposition stage walk-out, vow to continue agitation Meanwhile, the Executive Commissioner (Technical Services), NCC, Ubale Maska, during plenary on Friday, was asked a series of questions including the possibility of hacking INEC’s electronic transmission system; if the NCC has ever done a coverage analysis of the entire country; if it is possible to upload election results where there is no network like online registrations and bank service; if the Nigerian Communications Satellite (NIGCOMSAT) can deploy a satellite that covers the entire country and provide services for polls; and if Unstructured Supplementary Service Data can work. Maska responded, “The first question as to whether the commission has done an analysis of network coverage nationwide, especially captured and uncaptured, which I prefer to mean served or unserved areas, and this can be broken down into states. I must say here that, yes, we have this data. We have it nationwide, we have it on a state basis, and we even have on the basis of service, whether it is 2G, 3G or 4G (LTE). We have all these analyses. “We did an analysis of network coverage in 2018 in respect to all polling units in the country. We found out we had about 119,000; we were able to get the coordinates of about 109,000 and we plotted across the map of the country. We superimposed the network coverage with that of service providers. “We plotted 2G, 3G and (4G) LTE coverage. We were able to see that about half of the polling units were covered with 2G/3G services, roughly about 50.3 per cent. Then, about 49.7 did not have any coverage; they had only 2G, and about 8,000 polling units had none at all.” When asked if results could be transmitted via a 2G network, the NCC official said INEC was the appropriate authority to answer the question. He also said, “I’m sure it is open knowledge to us here that there is no system that is safe from hacking. You can do your best to secure it but no system is 100 per cent hack-free. “I’m sure members would have read about the elections in the United States in 2016 and the widespread belief that the election was hacked by the Russians. Every day, you read about hackers breaking into banks, insurance companies, and other industries. So, hacking is a possibility always.” About offline capturing of data, Maska said, “This is possible. It is possible that in an area that is not covered, you could record it and then physically move to another location. But, you cannot guarantee this kind of movement. It does not compare with direct transmission from the source.” He, however, said he could not comment on NIGCOMSAT and its satellites. Meanwhile, after Maska’s presentation, Gbajabiamila said the lawmakers would now have a better understanding of the issues and approach the controversial Clause 52(2) with the knowledge. He also urged the lawmakers to proceed to other clauses and return to the issue of electronic results transmission. The House dissolved into the Committee of the Whole, which was presided over by Deputy Speaker Ahmed Wase, to continue with the consideration of the bill. The session, however, turned rowdy again as Wase skipped Section 52 where consideration of the bill was suspended. He called for vote from Clause 54, which generated protests. The Deputy Minority Leader, Toby Okechukwu, raised a point of order to recall that the session on Thursday was halted when the consideration got to Clause 52. He also recalled that several members called for division of the House, which Wase overruled. The Deputy Speaker, however, denied blocking division of the House, adding that Clause 52 had already been voted on and passed. He asked Okechukwu or any other lawmaker to move that the vote on the clause be rescinded, which must be approved by majority of members. Wase had on Thursday ruled that the nays had it even when the ayes were louder than the nays, a development that ended normalcy in the chamber. On Friday, the lawmakers agreed, based on Gbajabiamila’s advice, that other clauses be considered and passed while they would return to Clause 52. However, after the last clause had been passed, the Minority Leader, Ndudi Elumelu, asked that Clause 52 should be voted on. Wase, however, argued that it had been voted on and the Minority Leader could only move for rescission of the votes on it, which must be approved by majority members. Elumelu, however, argued that since Clause 52 had been considered voted, there should be no call for rescission. The Minority Leader said since Wase would not agree, then the caucus would cease to be part of the process. Elumelu led opposition members out of the chamber and the bill was passed in their absence. Addressing journalists after the walk-out, Elumelu said the opposition lawmakers would continue to agitate, dismissing the bill passed by the House. He said, “For us, whatever they are doing there is a nullity and when we return, we will continue our agitation and ensure that the right thing is done,” he stated. “We had no other choice but to say that we cannot be part of that fake process whereby they are depriving Nigerians of their rights for election results to be counted accurately as e-transmission will guard against rigging and votes can count.” Nigeria not ready for electronic voting, result collation –Gbajabiamila After the passage of the bill, Gbajabiamila criticised the proposed electronic transmission of election results. The Speaker said, “Let me use this opportunity to thank you for taking time out this Friday, when we were supposed to have started our summer vacation to do what is important for us and the Nigerian people. The House passed the Electoral Act amendment. “For the sake of clarity, we have left the controversial Section 52 as recommended by the committee, which is to allow INEC to determine what to do. At least, we have been better informed by NCC that came and answer very critical questions. “I want to use this opportunity to talk to people out there as well. We all want electronic transmission of results. But based on the information from experts, it is not as easy as it sounds. We must get our electoral process right and when the time is right, we can come back and amend the law. “We don’t want to disenfranchise anybody. We have consistently said that every vote must count. It is not about 10 or 20 per cent coverage or even 90 per cent. If one person’s vote is not counted, it will defeat what we have said on this floor that every vote must count.” Gbajabiamila added, “So, I don’t think that electronic voting is feasible right now. What we have been talking about is electronic transmission, and from what we have been told today, we need to do more work so that everybody’s vote will be counted.” Senate can’t subject INEC power to NCC, says Tambuwal The Senate too had on Thursday passed the long-awaited Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill, 2021 after division among its members on the electronic transmission of results. After voting, the red chamber ruled out the possibility of having results transmitted electronically when it voted that the NCC, with the National Assembly’s approval, would determine whether INEC could transmit results electronically or not. Reacting to this, Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal, faulted the decision of the Senate to grant the NCC the power to determine the electronic transmission of results. Tambuwal, who was a former Speaker of the House of Representatives, made this known in a statement titled, ‘Electronic transmission of votes: Senate decision is unconstitutional,’ He described the Senate’s decision as “unconstitutional,” saying the mode of conducting elections and the transmission of votes should be left with INEC. The statement read, “The decision of the Senate to subject INECs constitutional power to conduct elections to the Nigerian Communications Commission and National Assembly is patently unconstitutional. For the avoidance of doubt, Section 78 of the Constitution provides that ‘the registration of voters and the conduct of elections shall be subject to the direction and supervision of the Independent National Electoral Commission.”       ,, “In the Third Schedule, Part 1,F, S.15: INEC has the power to organise, undertake and supervise all elections. The Constitution further provides that INEC operations shall not be subject to the direction of anybody or authority. “Unquestionably, the mode of election and transmission are critical parts of the conduct, supervision, undertaking, and organisation of elections in Nigeria. Of course, the National Assembly has the power to flesh out the legal framework but that has to be consistent with the Constitution. “These constitutional powers have been solely and exclusively prescribed by the Constitution to INEC, and cannot be shared with the NCC or any other authority, and certainly not a body unknown to the Constitution. The Senate’s decision to subject INECs constitutional power to conduct elections to the NCC is consequently patently void, unconstitutional and unlawful.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com