“I rushed out when there were repeated gunshots. Many men bearing sticks used them angrily on one another and a masquerader was trapped in their midst. Sticks, animal bones with sharp edges and machetes, were also freely used. “There were cries and wailing by children and women hit by the missiles. Before the dust settled on the clash, I saw a man lying lifeless at the entrance to the Central Mosque of Kamorudeen Society. Many people were also injured,” said a resident in the area, Oluode Aranyin. Aranyin who said he was neither a Muslim nor a member of the Esubiyi Masquerader noted that the clash was fierce between the two groups in Osogbo, Osun State, on Sunday. The Central Mosque of Kamorudeen Society had accused followers of Esubiyi Masquerader of attacking worshipers in the mosque during a special prayer for the country. A victim, identified as Salawudeen Moshood, from Baale’s Compound, Iwo, reportedly killed during the incident, was the Baba Ijo of the society. He came the previous day to Osogbo from Iwo, to attend the event. Saturday PUNCH gathered from the two groups that apart from the late septuagenarian Moshood, 14 other members of the society, including a pregnant woman and children, as well as five followers of Esubiyi Masquerader, were injured in the fracas. When our correspondent went to the scene of the incident on Thursday after the Monday visit, bloodstains were noticed at the mosque’s entrance. The ambience was solemn and residents were heard discussing the incident in muffled tones despite refusing overtures to speak with our correspondent. Clothing soaked in blood, footwear, a partly damaged canopy; smithereens of broken windows, and damaged plastic chairs were noticed at the scene by our correspondent. Also, a car parked in front of the mosque had a big hole believed to have been caused by gunshots on its windscreen. There is also an abattoir located close to the mosque and heaps of animal bones could be seen nearly parked in front of the hall where butchers kill and sell cow meat. It was believed that some of the bones used during the clash were picked from the abattoir. How the incident happened Speaking about the incident, a worshipper in the mosque identified only as Iya Ila, said members of the society were holding a prayer session in front of their mosque on Sunday when Esubiyi masquerader and his followers emerged from the road leading to Oluode Aranyin Compound, where the mosque is located. The woman further said under the canopies where they sat, she saw that the procession of the traditionalists halted at the junction leading to the mosque, awaiting orders from the policemen that accompanied them. She stated, “The policemen numbering about four moved to where we put our tent beside the road in front of our mosque and signalled to the masquerader and his followers to proceed. “Their procession immediately started advancing towards where we sat and passed our mosque down the road. But some of them stayed on the road beside our tent. As they passed, our Sheik was still holding a microphone because he was addressing us before they emerged. The programme was a prayer session for the country. “Because they were scared, many of our members who sat under the canopy ran inside the mosque when the masquerader and his followers walked near our tent. Our leader was still standing, holding a microphone and telling us to return to our seats. “As of then, there was no attack, but some followers of the masquerader still stayed near our canopy, while few of our youth also stayed facing the road and backing the tent.  The masquerader was still down the street but his men carrying sticks and other dangerous weapons were still loitering near our tent. “Suddenly, the followers and the masquerader returned from down the street and immediately they arrived where we placed the tent, they attacked us. Our baba Ijo that they killed was moving children into the mosque to prevent them from being injured. “Supporters of the masquerader were also throwing missiles into the mosque and smashed its windows. Many people were injured. My daughter-in-law, carrying a baby, was among those injured.” Also, while recounting how the incident happened, one of those injured in the fracas, Kazeem Agboola, who on his bed at the UNIOSUN Teaching Hospital, Osogbo, said the worshippers ended the 2pm prayers and already commenced a prayer session for the country when the incident happened. He said that the masquerader and his followers were not prevented from passing through the road to the other end of the street as alleged. He added that the procession that accompanied the masquerader attacked the Muslim worshippers and hurled missiles at them without provocation. Agboola said, “They hurled missiles at us. They attacked us with sharp cow bones, machete and clubs. Some of our people were also shot by them. About six people attacked me. Axe and machete cuts were inflicted on me. They nearly killed me.” But in his reaction, the custodian of the Esubiyi Masquerader, Fashola Esuleke, told our correspondent that the leader of the Kamorudeen Society, Imam Qoseem Yunus, was fond of attacking traditionalists whenever they passed through the mosque neighbourhood. Fashola, who also accused Yunus of burning regalia of some masqueraders in the past, said the worshippers attacked the procession of Esubiyi Masquerader that was in the area to greet a family member and even attempted to undress the masquerader and burn the costume. He denied allegations that the masquerader attacked the worshippers, saying it was the members of the society that attacked the traditionalists. Fashola added, “Before we left home, my dad, Chief Kayode Esuleke, placed a curse on anyone that would foment trouble among our followers. But that particular Kamorudeen leader has been intolerant of adherents of other faiths. “That day, policemen even provided security for us. Before we reached the premises of the mosque, we passed by many mosques and churches and no one attacked us until we got to the Kamorudeen Mosque. Whenever we got to the premises of a church or mosque, we would stop drumming. “Our masquerade was in the area to greet some family members and offer prayers for them. We had passed the front of the mosque and moved to the house of the woman we went to greet. “But while we were leaving the area, members of the society attacked us. The younger ones among them went to the upper floor of the mosque and started pelting us with missiles. While the young ones were doing that, their elders attacked our masquerade and even attempted to undress the masquerader. “One of them surged forward to undress the masquerade. He almost succeeded but for the timely intervention of some of our supporters who rescued the masquerader and ferried him out of the area through an uncompleted building. Sharp cow bones were given to some people to attack us. Five of our people were injured. We didn’t attack anyone. We didn’t kill anybody.” Reacting to the claim that he often attacked traditionalists that passed the mosque’s vicinity, Yunus, while speaking with journalists, noted that his society had a frosty relationship with the masqueraders over the years, but insisted that they (society) were not the aggressors. Yunus said, “In 2018, there was a woman along our street selling alcohol called Aroyehun. The masquerader lied that they came to our neighborhood to visit her and they attacked us. When we got to the police and the woman saw the gravity of the offence the Esubiyi Masquerader committed, she fled the neighbourhood. Also, Fashola told a government official that I personally led an attack against them that Sunday. It was untrue. That day, I led a programme. How can it be convenient for me to conduct a programme and still lead an attack against a masquerader? Imagine, in an area where there used to be clashes with Muslims, a masquerader still insisted on going to the same area to visit someone.” Eyewitnesses, video evidence accounts Both parties provided video recordings on the incident. In one of the videos obtained by our correspondent, a procession of the Esubiyi masquerader was seen moving towards the street where the mosque is located, while a man in white kaftan, holding a microphone, was addressing worshippers who sat under a tent. The procession of the masquerader did not stop drumming as they moved past the worshippers. But as the entourage of the masquerader approached a point near a tent erected in front of the mosque, many of the worshippers were seen running into the mosque, even though the masquerader’s followers didn’t attack them. Also as seen in the video, while the masquerader passed a street into the residence of a family member that Esubiyi came to see, some of the followers, bearing sticks, waited near the tent. Some male members of the society could also be seen forming a line, backing the tent and facing the youth standing on the road, awaiting the masquerader’s return. As the masquerader emerged from down a street, and moved towards exiting the area, there was a clash. It was however not clear how it started. A man was seen surging through the crowd and running towards the masquerader. The man held the masquerader’s head in an attempt to remove the veil, as sticks and other dangerous weapons were used on him. The masquerader was later rescued and rushed out of the area through an uncompleted building. Some people were also seen in the video hurling missiles towards the upper floor of the mosque, shattering its windows in the process. Some of the residents of Oluode Aranyin who our correspondent approached for comments on the matter refused to talk. But another eyewitness who spoke on condition of anonymity and reside in Amuloko, an adjoining street to where the incident occurred, said the worshippers could have envisaged the attack since there was no love between them and adherents of the Esubiyi masquerader. It also appeared that the traditionalists prepared for any showdown, going by previous clashes between the two groups. Dad was shot at mosque’s entrance –Deceased’s son Yusuf, son of the only worshipper killed in the clash, Moshood Salaudeen, said his father was shot while trying to move worshippers into the mosque and prevent them from being wounded. The son who was also at the incident scene, said, “The incident happened after we observed the Zuri prayer on Sunday. They were drumming and came towards our direction. The programme was still on and they converged on the junction, leading to the area. We observed from under the tent where we sat that some policemen were leading the masquerader down the street where our mosque is located. “The procession moved down the street with the masquerader, drumming despite the fact that we were holding a programme and the noise would affect the programme. Some of them stayed back close to our tent and while those that followed the masquerader were returning from where he went to, they started throwing stones and shooting at us. “We chased them away from the tent but they returned with full force and started shooting indiscriminately. Many of our people sustained injuries and are presently at the UNIOSUN Teaching Hospital and the state hospital, Asubiaro. My father was shot while he was trying to enter the mosque.” Meanwhile, the state government and the police had assured of a thorough investigation and diligent prosecution of those culpable in the attacks. Governor Adegboyega Oyetola and the State Police Commissioner, Wale Olokode, had assured of thorough investigation and diligent prosecution of those behind the clash. The two men, in separate statements, warned against intolerance, urging people of different religions to coexist in love. Saturday PUNCH recalled that on July 27, 2019, a festival, Orisa-Oba, resulted in violence at Odan-Aje, Idi-Iroko in the Ipokia Local Government Area of Ogun State, as some angry youths hurled stones at Muslims observing Suhr (afternoon) prayer inside a mosque in the community for flouting a stay-indoor order. The mob also attacked a church, Holy Trinity Catholic Church in the neighbourhood, breaking the window glasses of the two worship centres. The traditionalists explained that the festival was to ward off strange ailments in the land and residents had been instructed to stay indoors, quietly–a sacred rule the two worship centres allegedly flouted. It took the intervention of the police to nip what could have been a bloody clash in the bud as some rampaging youths were arrested. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com