Djibouti is a unique country in Africa, characterised by barren lands, not much development and surprising stability in an extremely volatile region. It is strategically positioned next to the Bab-el-Mandeb, a critical maritime chokepoint. It is this significance of location that makes Djibouti a place of value for most East African nations, particularly those that are landlocked such as Ethiopia. Gaining from this position of advantage, Djibouti has the potential to grow into one of East Africa’s largest and fastest growing economies. Apart from its maritime activities, the country is also known to be generating revenue by leasing land to multiple foreign militaries. As is obvious, because of its strategic location, China chose Djibouti for setting up a military base in the guise of securing communication cables in the sea and ships from attacks and piracy. To further its agenda of surveillance and block overseas and deep-sea maritime traffic at will, China vigorously participated in the construction of Djibouti’s ports, railways, highways and related infrastructure. China took the logistics support base in Djibouti on a 10-year lease in January 2016 and interestingly, by mid-2017, completely transformed the place as a full-fledged support base for the People’s Liberation Army. Like many other African countries which are still in the process of setting up standards of engagement for foreign entities, Djibouti too did not have an established set of rules and regulations for foreign investment. There is hardly any restriction on investment methods or the domains in which investments can be made. Taking advantage of their ignorance or rather naivety, the Chinese have made investments worth more than a billion dollars in the last decade in the country, mainly in the transport sector, aiming to benefit from an access to entire East Africa as a readymade market and to facilitate transport of material and natural resources to Asia and the rest of the world as done by imperialist powers in the earlier centuries. Currently, Djibouti’s debt to China has reportedly increased to more than 70 per cent of its Gross Domestic Product. According to China Customs statistics, the total import and export trade volume between the two countries reached US$2.226 billion in 2019 with a year-on-year increase of about 19.4%. However, for Djibouti, this increase barely accounted for three per cent. Thus, the entire tilt in the trade was strongly in favour of China while Djibouti itself was slipping down the economic parameters. How Djibouti has turned into a debt trap can be understood from the fact that China Exim Bank continues lending to various projects in the country valued at several billion dollars, including the Ethiopia-Djibouti Railways and its electrification, Doraleh Multipurpose Port, Ethiopia-Djibouti Water Pipeline and the Ghoubet Port. This is because while China directly uses these Djiboutian ports for exporting sugar, salt and other raw material, the Chinese-funded Ethiopian industries in landlocked Ethiopia also use the services of the same ports to ship almost 90% of their products overseas. For long, Djibouti was a French colony but in recent years, the proximity in trade and economic affairs between the Djiboutians and the Chinese is noticeable with a growing acceptance of Chinese standards. The Chinese have a way of infiltrating nations; from constructing strategic buildings to gain surveillance and control of important positions to providing financial or engineering assistance through grants, aid, and loans with a generous pay-back schedule particularly on infrastructure projects that make the Chinese package an attractive option for African countries. The same procedure was followed in Djibouti as well. Here, China has been involved in the construction of the Office building of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, small office building of the Presidential Palace and not to forget the French Army Barracks as well! In the realm of communication too, China is heavily invested in Djibuoti. The Chinese business giant, Huawei, with connections in the Chinese military, the Chinese Communist Party, and supposedly involved in espionage activities is setting up the Huawei Marine Network, financed by the China Construction Bank, to lay an undersea fiber optic cable connecting the nearly 12,070-kilometre Asia-Africa-Europe cable network. Moreover, benefiting from the Chinese inroads in Eastern Africa, its ‘iron brother’ ally, Pakistan, seeks to connect Gwadar and Karachi ports in Pakistan to Djibouti and Kenya before being extended to Egypt and South Africa as part of its Pakistan East Africa Cable Express (PEACE) initiative. Gradually, beyond Ethiopia, China is now in the process of controlling ports and Djiboutian industries. Firstly, China invests in firms through its China Exim Bank and then by exercising influence simply takes them over. For example, an  ore  terminal  at  Ghoubet  Port  was constructed by China  Harbour  Engineering  Corporation  (CHEC)  to  export  salt  drawn from the mines  in  Lake  Assal,  for  which  China  Exim Bank provided US$ 64 million as a preferential loan. After its completion in 2015, the parent company China Communications   Construction   Corporation – purchased   a   Djiboutian   salt   company and obtained exploration rights in Lake Assal for 50 years. So first, the infrastructure for export was created and then a firm to facilitate the extraction of the resource and its subsequent transport and sale was set up. Besides this, the CCCC  also apparently plans  to  construct  a  salt  chemical  industrial  park  in  partnership  with  Shandong  Haiwang  Chemical  Company in the area. This would eventually complete the extraction, marketing, transport and export of a precious resource such as salt from Lake Assal which has an average salt concentration almost 10 times higher than sea water. Blessed in terms of its location, Djibouti has not just one but multiple ports of strategic significance. One such ports is the Doraleh Multipurpose Port (DMP), which is a joint venture of China Merchants and the Djibouti Ports and Free Zones Authority (DPFZA). However, despite the enterprise being a joint venture, it is the Chinese companies that are termed as owners and developers of this port with the firm China Merchants reportedly spending $185 million to acquire a 23.5% stake. Subsequently, the China Exim Bank is known to have extended a $340 million loan to finance the construction of the DMP built thoroughly with Chinese engineering assistance. In fact, the DMP’s location is so significant that the Chinese navy have sought a dedicated berth at the port. The facilities here include storage for fuel, weapons, and equipment, as well as maintenance facilities for helicopters and commercial and military ships. Personnel stationed at the DMP belong to the Marine and Special Forces who through a heliport and use of drones can continuously monitor movements in the region. Also, a large 660 metre-long pier has been built wherein massive PLA ships will soon be able to moor. Of world class standards, underground, the base is also equipped with cyber and electronic warfare facilities. As such, the Chinese government is believed to be paying US$ 20 million per year to lease the location from the Djiboutians primarily to protect their exclusive sea-lanes of communication and to have effective counter-intelligence. An added advantage is that the port is not only strategically located but also large enough to accommodate Chinese ships including the ‘The Liaoning Aircraft Carrier’. In current times, one cannot ignore the fact that the Chinese are probably preparing the site to thwart any future American challenges to their dominance in the region. Not just the navy, to show that China is interested in boosting the Djiboutian armed forces, China has also supplied small amounts of weapons, a MA60 transport aircraft and five Norinco made WMA-301 armored  fire  support vehicles to Djibouti. The local authorities for sometime did consider building an airport too for military and commercial purposes but eventually realised that it would be an expensive proposition without proportionate returns. Meanwhile, China kept eyeing provision of a commercial loan for its construction which as per its modus operandi, with nonpayment, could be taken over for a long lease to serve its vested interests in the region. Thus, despite the tall claims of benign Chinese investment in Djibouti for the development of that country, its high debt-to-GDP ratio cannot be ignored and seeks urgent intervention of the international community to prevent this strategically located country from falling into the infamous Chinese debt trap. On analysing Chinese investments in Djibouti, it’s hard to miss the emphasis or the ravenous approach of the Chinese towards the ports. Every penny put in by China in the country has a port connection. A classic case to awaken the international community of the effects of the Chinese strategic depth in Africa, it remains to be seen if the global stakeholders set an example of cooperation or competition when it comes to saving this small yet strategic country of significance. Ahmad, an international maritime expert, wrote in from Abuja Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com