Governor Aminu Masari of Katsina State, on Sunday, implored Nigerian elites to be more supportive of the Federal Government by avoiding unpatriotic conduct that cast the country in a bad light. The governor made the appeal in an Eid-el-Kabir message by his Director-General, Media, Abdul Malumfashi. According to the statement, the governor made the appeal against the backdrop of recent calls by prominent Nigerians on international bodies and foreign powers to forcefully interfere in the nation’s internal affairs in view of the security situation in the country. Masari was quoted as saying, “As a sovereign nation, Nigeria deserves the respect of foreign nations whatever their status on the global stage may be. “For any compatriot to wilfully call on foreign powers to meddle in the internal affairs of Nigeria is to display the highest level of lack of patriotism. “No responsible citizen, least of all, those who are the foremost beneficiaries of the commonwealth, will encourage foreign powers to interfere in the internal affairs of their nation, regardless of its adversities.” Meanwhile, the Vice-Chancellor of the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta, Prof Kolawole Salako, has congratulated the institution’s Muslim community and their counterparts worldwide on this year’s Eid-el-Kabir. Salako said this in a statement by the institution’s Head, Directorate of Public Relations, Mr Kola Adepoju, on Sunday. Salako also urged members of the university community to imbibe and foster the spirit of sacrifice, good neighbourliness and selfless service as espoused by Prophet Mohammed. He advised the Muslim faithful to harness their thoughts and energies towards a cordial relationship with adherents of other religions in order to sustain and enhance peaceful co-existence on the campus and the nation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com