A review of the Badagry master plan along with the setting up of a technical committee to look into the review has commenced according to the Lagos State government. The Lagos State Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr Idris Salako, in a statement explained that the ministry was empowered to conduct a review of the Operative Development Plans of the state every five years based on the Lagos State Urban and Regional Planning Development Law 2019 as amended. He disclosed that the review was done through the collaborative engagement of all relevant MDAs vested with the statutory responsibility for their respective sectors and subsectors. “Members of the technical committee were drawn from relevant MDAs, with the charge to evaluate, analyse and critique the submissions of the consultant assigned to do the review, and communicate their MDAs’ positions on the subject matter,” Salako said. He added that the review would ultimately update the development plans and correct observed lapses in the subsisting plan. He said, “It is an opportunity to retrofit the plan in order to enhance the achievement of outstanding targets in the lapsing plan, in line with the expanded aims and goals for the planned area.” Salako charged members of the technical committee with providing the state a functional plan to meet the 21st century economy aspirations of the state government per the T.H.E.M.E.S agenda. Special Adviser to the Governor on Urban Development, Mr Ganiyu Ayuba, pointed out that the development plans were the bedrock and reference point for physical development. Lead Consultant for Vistaplan Consulting Limited, Mobolaji Olaseni, thanked the state government for the opportunity to anchor the review of the Badagry master plan. He gave assurance while assuring of a prompt delivery of the review with the concerted effort of the technical committee. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com