A suspected drug baron, Tony Onwurolu, has been declared wanted by the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency as the agency recovered a consignment of 26.150 kilogrammes of heroin at the SAHCO shed of the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Ikeja, Lagos. It was gathered that the drug, with a street value of N6.5bn, arrived in Lagos on June 30, 2021, in 25 parcels from South Africa through a private Nigerian airline. A statement by the Director, Media and Advocacy, NDLEA, Femi Babafemi, on Sunday, said the consignment was detained for screening following reasonable suspicion of the content. Babafemi stated that narcotic officers at the MMIA Command on July 1, 2021, trailed the driver and clearing agent assigned to deliver the consignment to Onwurolu’s house on Lateef Adegboyega Street, off Ago Palace Way, by Grandmate Bus Stop, Okota, Lagos. He said, “During the follow-up operation, Tony Chidi Onwurolu, who mounted counter-surveillance around his neighbourhood, fled his home before the arrival of the team of operatives who stormed his residence. They were, however, able to search his home and recover a number of documents to establish his true identity. “Following the development, the Chairman/Chief Executive of NDLEA, Brig. Gen. Mohamed Buba Marwa (retd), has directed that the fleeing drug baron, Tony Chidi Onwurolu, be declared wanted immediately and his details submitted to Interpol for tracking across the world. He, therefore, directed the agency’s directorate of assets and financial investigations, as well as the directorate of intelligence, to deploy their networks to fast track the arrest of Onwurolu. “Marwa said in view of the volume of heroin brought into the country by the fleeing baron, the agency would deploy all available mechanisms, locally and internationally, to track him and bring him to face charges in a law court.” Similarly, the agency said it intercepted a 4.3kg skunk concealed in nine packs of cereals and imported from Canada on an Ethiopian airline. Operatives of the agency also intercepted one Babatunde Bakare on July 9 with 550 grams of cannabis and 50g of Rohypnol concealed in six jerrycans of local herbal mixtures called Gabo at SAHCO export shed, MMIA, Ikeja. According to Babafemi, the drug was detected during the outward clearance of cargo going to Dubai. Babafemi added, “Earlier on Tuesday, 6th July, operatives of the MMIA command conducted a follow-up operation at Gate 2, Ladipo Oluwole Street, opposite Guinness Bottling Company, Ikeja, where one Animashaun Kabiru was apprehended for questioning about a bag containing bitter cola, which was brought for export to the UK. When the bag of bitter kola was searched, it was discovered that the bitter kola was mixed with some wraps of a substance suspected to be an illicit drug. Thirty-six wraps of the suspected substance later tested positive for cocaine, weighing 600grams. “In a related development, a Uber driver, Lawal Tunde Rasheed, arrested on 8th June in connection with the seizure of a cocaine consignment, has been let off the hook following his cooperation that led to the arrest of the real owner of the drug, Mr Egbo Emmanuel Maduka, who in his statement, accepted ownership of the consignment and absolved Lawal of any complicity.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com