The Lagos State House of Assembly on Monday intensified its call for state police to tackle security challenges in all the country. This, according to a statement, was raised under the Matter of Urgent Public Importance during plenary. The lawmakers unanimously supported the prayers of Rauf Age-Sulaimon, who narrowly escaped a gunshot attack during a campaign rally in the Agboju area of the state, which left a chieftain if the All Progressives Congress, Kayode Samuel, dead. Age-Sulaimon also called on the state Commissioner of Police to ensure adequate security of lives and property in the state. “The National Assembly should take proactive measures towards establishing state police to check insecurity,” he added. Another lawmaker, Rotimi Olowo, called for a probe into the incident in the Agboju area. “Emphasising the greater need to decentralise the police and delivering more powers to the state for security purposes, the lawmakers appealed to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to intensify efforts in protecting the lives and properties of Lagosians,” the statement added. Meanwhile, a former General Evangelist Worldwide of the Christ Apostolic Church, Prophet Kayode Abiara, has urged the Federal Government to consider creating state police, as well as putting an end to the “archaic practice of open grazing of cattle in the country.” Abiara said this in a statement on Monday. The statement reads, “If each state recruits 10,000 youths into state or community police, insecurity will reduce because youths that are generally frustrated and angry because will be enlisted, and the dual purpose of fighting insecurity and employment would be served.” Abiara urged the government to embrace modern methods of raising livestock and empower youths economically. “You can never see cows or cattle on the streets of London, New York or in South Africa. And fortunately our leaders are widely travelled. The world is modernising agriculture and an important sector of agriculture is livestock, so, why should we still continue in the century-old and archaic practice of cow or cattle wandering about? Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com