A pneumococcal infection is an infection caused by the bacterium Streptococcus pneumoniae, which is also called the pneumococcus. It is a common member of the bacterial flora colonising the nose and throat of five to 10 per cent of healthy adults and 20 to 40 per cent of healthy children. However, it is also a cause of significant disease, being a leading cause of pneumonia, bacterial meningitis, and sepsis. The World Health Organization estimates that in 2005 pneumococcal infections were responsible for the death of 1.6 million children worldwide. Pneumococcal disease is sometimes known as pneumococcus. Most people carry pneumococcus in their nose and throat, where the bacteria do not cause any symptoms. However, sometimes the bacteria grow and spread to other parts of the body and that’s when one become sick. The bacteria can cause a number of different types of very serious disease, which can affect the lungs, ears, sinuses and brain. Pneumococcal disease is serious, and can lead to pneumonia, swelling and infection of the brain (meningitis), infection of the blood (septicaemia), coma and death. Symptoms Pneumococcal disease symptoms depend on which part of the body is infected. Symptoms can include: Risk Factors Pneumococcal disease can affect people at any age. The following people have higher risk of infection: Transmission Pneumococcal disease spreads when an infected person coughs or sneezes, and you breathe it in, by kissing. Prevention If you have pneumococcal disease, you can help stop it spreading by, washing your hands often, covering your coughs and sneezes. Pneumococcal disease can also be prevented with vaccination. Diagnosis The doctor can diagnose pneumococcal disease by checking for symptoms, examining the person. The tests to confirm the diagnosis depend on which body part is infected and include chest X-ray, Sputum or phlegm test, blood test, urine test, spinal fluid test. Treatment Conservative treatment; you can relieve the symptoms by:resting, drinking fluids, particularly water, taking paracetamol to reduce pain and fever. Pneumococcal disease is treated with antibiotics. Antibiotics may be used to treat pneumococcal disease. However, antibiotic resistance does occur with pneumococcal bacteria. Treatment may start with a broad-spectrum antibiotic, which works against a wide range of bacteria. After testing, once the sensitivity of the bacteria is known, a more targeted antibiotic may be selected. Some people with a severe illness may need to go to hospital. Immunisation Vaccination is a safe and effective way to protect one from pneumococcal disease.By getting vaccinated against pneumococcal disease, one can also help protect other people, especially people who are too young to be vaccinated. The more people who are vaccinated in the community, the less likely the disease will spread. Anyone who wants to protect themselves against pneumococcal disease can talk to their doctor about getting immunised. Pneumococcal immunisation is recommended for infants and children aged under 5 years, the elderly adults aged 70 years and over without medical risk conditions for pneumococcal disease. People  with certain medical risk conditions like Sickle Cell Disorder, diabetes, lung disease, kidney disease, heart disease, liver disease or cancer There are two types of pneumococcal vaccines, the different vaccines protect against different types of pneumococcal disease. They are all given as injectables. The two types of pneumococcal vaccines are one that covers 13 strains of pneumococcal disease. The other covers 23 strains of pneumococcal disease. The type of vaccine used and the dosage schedule will depend on age and any conditions that put people at higher risk of getting pneumococcal disease. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com