Nigerians have thrown their weight behind Bukayo Saka, who received messages racially abusing him after missing England’s last penalty kick in their Euro 2020 final defeat to Italy on Sunday in Wembley. Arsenal, British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, Lewis Hamilton and many British global personalities condemned the racial attacks on Saka, Marcus Rashford and Jadon Sancho, who missed their penalties for the Three Lions. Among the Nigerians who showed support for the Nigeria-born Saka were Super Eagles midfielder, Joe Aribo, and John Fashanu. Aribo posted Saka’s image on his Instagram stories on Monday in support of the teenager. Speaking with The PUNCH, Nigerian-born former England international Fashanu said Saka should not be subjected to abuse just for missing a penalty. “He missed a penalty, that doesn’t make him a bad guy or a terrorist. But in England, their thoughts are a little bit hard and more difficult. At the end of the day, I think it is a disgrace to go to this level of racism. People nowadays are afraid to call themselves black,” he told The PUNCH. He also charged the Professional Football Association to take drastic measures against racist fans. “I was one of the first black players to play in the English Premier League and I was black then and would always be black. But I took a lot of nasty insults, human urines being poured over me; I’ve had a lot of things. It is not pleasant and I hope those boys are strong because you need to have a strong character to play there. “I want to see the Football Association come out and stop this and whether we have to ban fans, stop radio interviews, but it shouldn’t be that after all these years, 30 years of playing professional football, we still have racism and it is getting worse,” Fashanu added. Many other Nigerians also took to social media to support the Arsenal player. “When fans of Premier League rivals say they are proud of you and even those who didn’t care if England won or lost say the same about you, you are a winner. You won hearts. You won respect. Saka is gold. The future is bright. Hold your head high, little chili. Keep shining star boy,” Debola Ajagunna wrote on Facebook. According to Ama Obi, Saka’s display throughout the tournament has earned him love from millions of fans irrespective of the racism. “The world is full of hatred and social media just compounded that by allowing so many ignorant illiterate individuals to have free access, thereby taking advantage to abuse and destroy others. However millions are proud of you Saka boy we love you. Never relent because you can even go up higher,” Obi wrote on Facebook. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com