A Federal High Court sitting in Ikoyi, Lagos, has granted one Mr Babajide Coker an order of substituted service in his suit challenging his suspension from the membership of the Lagos Motor Boat Club. Justice Ambrose Allagoa made the order following a motion filed and argued by Coker’s counsel, Kemi Pinheiro (SAN). The plaintiff, Coker, commenced the suit marked FHC/L/CS/578/2021 on March 16, 2021. The first to seventh defendants are the Registered Trustees of Lagos Motor Boat Club, Dr Dapo Majekodunmi, Mr Babajide Balogun, Babalola Alakolaro, Ladi Mumuni, Prince Awogboro and the Corporate Affairs Commission. The plaintiff sought a declarative relief for an order of mandatory injunction pending the determination of the Motion on Notice dated June 15, 2021. He also sought an order of interlocutory injunction, commanding the first defendant to reverse the resolutions purportedly passed at the Annual General Meeting of the Lagos Motor Boat Club held on June 17, 2021, as well as an order of interlocutory injunction restraining the first defendant from giving effect to the resolutions. He prayed the court to set aside all the resolutions purportedly passed on any election into the offices at the club’s Annual General Meeting, saying the meeting was held and the resolutions were passed while the matter was pending in court. Coker, apart from challenging his suspension from the membership of the club, also challenged his disenfranchisement to contest elections for the position of Duty Officer of the committee of the club held on October 5, 2020. Coker stated that by his solicitors’ letter duly received and acknowledged by the first  to sixth defendants had notice of the Motion on Notice for interlocutory injunction. Pinheiro prayed the court to allow the plaintiff to have an alternative way of serving the court processes on the defendants, since they were avoiding service. However, counsel for Awogboro, Eyimofe Atake (SAN), opposed the application in a manner which the court considered to be unprofessional. The judge adjourned till October 6, 2021 for the hearing of all applications. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com