A sexual and reproductive health expert, Dr. YemiAdeyemi has said that using sex toys could reduce stress and give relief from menstrual cramps. According to Adeyemi, sex toys can also help boost moods and release sexual tension. Speaking with PUNCH HealthWise in an interview, the sexual reproductive health expert, however, warned that sex toys should not be shared because they could be a rich source of sexually transmitted infections. According to Health Shots – an online health information medium – sex toys can help reduce chances of STDs to almost zero, as there is no human intervention in its use and thus prevents viruses like HPV and HIV. Health Shots also stated that sex toys can help reduce stress, improve libido and solve the problem of vaginismus – unbearable pain during penetrative sex. Also sharing her experience on the use of sex toys with PUNCH Healthwise, Zainab (not real name) corroborated the view of Dr. Adeyemi, noting that the toys help her to ease tension and reduce stress. “Yes, it reduces stress. It also helps prevents infections because you are not worried about an unfaithful partner,” Zainab said. Zainab told our correspondent that she is open with her decision to use sex toys revealing that her partner, who loves trying new things, is aware and comfortable with her using sex toys. “In fact, we use them together. We love trying new stuff,” she said. Zainab also stated that she is not worried about getting a sexually transmitted infection from sharing her sex toys with her partner. “Well, to some extent I trust my partner and whenever we want to share, I clean it up. If it involves penetration, we use a condom,” she said. Also sharing her experience with PUNCH Healthwise, OmolayoAiyelabola, owner of an online sex toy store, Intimates by Amope, agreed that sex toys relieve stress and tension. “Sex toys help reduce stress. Many women do not cum or orgasm via penetrative sex. So many women are not satisfied with their sex lives, hence the need to use the toys to be fine. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com