The Lagos State Government, through the Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development, enforced on Friday the sealing of a terminal at Ibeshe, located in the Ikorodu axis of Lagos State. This came as part of an enforcement and compliance exercise organised by the ministry in conjunction with officers of the state’s Kick against Indiscipline unit and the Special Operations Unit of the Lagos State Police Command. The Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr Idris Salako, who led the exercise, expressed displeasure at the illegal dredging conducted along the coastline and the improper storage of containers within the community which he said posed a safety hazard. Salako said, “The Lagos State Government found out there is an illegal terminal along Ibeshe, near the Lagos State jetty. “We had to visit because we noticed that their activities are creating lots of problems for the state government’s jetty existing beside it as well as the newly constructed roads that are being destroyed every day. “You can see the cracks, the culverts being opened up and an imbalance in the superstructure of the road. There are also massive dredging activities of sand mining going on around the area that are not allowed.” The commissioner disclosed that several notices had been served but were ignored prior to the sealing. He said the state government would not allow the abuse of terminals and indiscriminate dumping of containers as had been seen in the Ijegun-Egba and Satellite Town communities of the state. He urged prospective terminal operators to seek the necessary permits required for mining from the relevant ministries, departments and agencies. Salako tasked the local high chief to be vigilant to avoid a repeat of such occurrences. He also took the opportunity to visit the neighbouring Nigerian Army Properties Terminal where he spoke with the operators. He implored them to maintain the roads and engage in corporate social responsibilities in the areas within their remit. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com