Consolidated Hallmark Insurance Plc has said it has commenced the 2021 edition of its annual essay competition with a call for entries. It said in a statement on Monday that this was in line with its corporate social responsibility policy and commitment to improving insurance literacy in the youthful populace. The statement said, “The essay competition which is open to tertiary institution students in 300 level or HND 1 and above studying insurance or actuarial science is expected to stimulate exceptional thoughts on the topic: “Insecurity in the nation: Threats and opportunities for insurers. “This is a topic which is quite apt considering the need for insurers and other players in the industry to respond to the growing insecurity challenges in the country.” The Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Consolidated Hallmark, Mr Eddie Efekoha, stated that the annual essay competition which commenced in 2011 was a testament of the company’s unwavering commitment to not only encourage research but also improve insurance knowledge in the country. Efekoha noted that the company had so far impacted many during the course of the competition, as most of the first prize winners were given automatic employment into its organisation after the completion of their studies and National Youth Service Corps. He said, “This is the 10th year of the essay competition which has received several commendations within the insurance industry and beyond. “Students now look forward to participating in it annually not only for the cash rewards but also for the opportunity the competition offers them to deepen their knowledge on topical issues. “It has helped to stimulate discourse on pertinent issues in the insurance industry and as an organisation, we are committed to investing more in the scheme.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com