Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare, on Thursday advocated an independent National Sports Commission to develop the sector. He stated this at a Public Hearing organised by the Senate Committee on Sports and Youth Development chaired by Senator Obinna Ogba. The bills considered were the National Sports Commission Establishment Bill 2020 and the Federal Sports University, Nkalagu, Ebonyi Establisment Bill 2020. Dare said, “We must set up a commission that is contemporary, one that can develop our sports in a deliberate way and radically depart from what we have before.” He added that the sports commission currently envisaged must be restructured in a way that would make it capable of doing the work of repositioning the agenda such as the ministry had mapped out in the National Sports Industry Policy. “This is because we must depart from the narrow definition of the job description,” the minister said, He further said that the ministry was working with stakeholders in the industry to give Nigeria a new sports policy. “As a ministry, we have been working with critical stakeholders to deliver for our country a new sports industry policy christened the Nigerian Sports Industry Policy. “This, we hope to change the scope of our sports development. It is our intent to build a business model around sports in Nigeria so that we can be on the same path like North America, Europe and other climes.” Dare said the establishment of the Federal Sports University, Nkalagu would contribute immensely to Nigeria’s earnings from sports. The minister urged the National Assembly to give the bill a favourable consideration in view of its importance to the country’s sports development. Declaring the hearing open, President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, who was represented by Senate Minority Whip, Senator Philip Aduda, said sports had become a tool of influence and commercial endeavour. He called for the right governance and policy framework to develop the sector. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com