The Speaker of the House of Representatives has explained why the chamber did not adopt electronic voting for the clause-by-clause consideration and passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill and the Electoral Act 2010 (Amendment) Bill. Gbajabiamila said it would be difficult the deploy e-voting for such huge legislations. The Speaker, in his valedictory speech at the plenary on Thursday, noted that the 9th House of Representatives has carried on its constitutional duty to make laws for the good government of the country. He said, “After multiple failed attempts over two decades, the Petroleum Industry Bill has passed both House of the National Assembly and will shortly be transmitted to the President after proper harmonisation with the Senate.” However, while the Senate has considered and adopted the report by the conference committee set up to harmonise the differences between the PIB versions passed by the chambers, the House has stepped down consideration of the report indefinitely. Gbajabiamila said, “Today, we will consider the report of the House Committee on Electoral Matters and vote on the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill that has been laid before us by the committee. This is part of our continued efforts to improve our elections and ensure that democracy thrives in our country. “The stage is set and the world is watching. I encourage all members to vote their conscience informed only by the best interest of the country and our people. “It has been mentioned to me that landmark legislation such as the Petroleum Industry Bill and the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill ought to have been considered using the electronic voting system in the House. While I agree with this suggestion, e-voting usually in most parts of the world is meant for single item pieces of legislation not 400 clause considerations, except on reports that contain limited number of clauses. As such, it is not ideal for this bill. “Nonetheless, I take the point and we will make sure that the system is fully deployed in advance of our resumption.” The Speaker recalled that the leadership of the House, on Tuesday, submitted to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), the report of the Special Summit on National Security convened by the House of Representatives to seek solutions to the problem of insecurity in Nigeria. “We have laid that same report before the House and have begun to implement the recommendations of the report that require legislative action,” he noted.