A child and gender rights advocate and leader of the Coalition of Gender Based Violence Responders, Lemmy Ughegbe, has filed a formal complaint against the Deputy Commissioner of Police in the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, Fom Pam Joseph, over an alleged threat to his life and family. On Sunday, the activist in the petition filed at the National Human Rights Commission warned that should anything happen to him or any member of his family, Nigerians and the global human rights community should hold Joseph, a Deputy Commissioner of Police responsible. According to him, the DCP was allegedly after him for leading a coalition helping to unravel the culprits behind the rape of Keren-Happuch Aondodoo Akpagher, a 14-year-old boarding house student of Premier Academy, Lugbe. The NHRC has consequently assigned two lawyers to him to accompany him to honour the letter of invitation signed by DCP Fom Pam Joseph, with Ref. No 3000/FCT/X/D9/ VoL 62/38, dated July 8, 2021. The letter reads, “This office is investigating a case of inciting public disturbance wherein your name featured prominently. In view of the above, you are kindly requested to interview the undersigned through the officer in charge of Gender Section, Criminal Investigation Department, Abuja today 8/7/2021″ The teenager who was said to have been raped and condom left inside her uterus, causibg her sepsis and led to her death on June 22, 2021. Ughegbe said the coalition had been critical of DCP Joseph’s role in investigating the death of Keren-Happuch Aondodoo Akpagher following his alleged refusal to release the medical report of her death to the-police appointed pathologist at the Maitama General Hospital, Dr. Desmond Ike Okonkwo, despite requested as a pre-condition to conduct the autopsy in line with global best practices. The reported refusal was said to have led to the stalling of the autopsy, which was scheduled for Saturday, July 3, 2021. Consequently, Ughegbe and the CSOs issued a statement condemning the action and describing it as “reprehensible and raises suspicion as to his motive.” But barely 24 hours to a planned rally by the coalition in Abuja to seek justice for Keren-Happuch on Friday, the DCP sent policemen to the Nursery and Primary School to effect his arrest. According to him, before leaving, the policemen left a letter signed by DCP Fom Pam Joseph, inviting the him to the FCT Command for questioning on the claim that he was being investigated for inciting public disturbance with regards to the Keren-Happuch rape saga. Reacting to the said letter during the #Justice$Keren rally at the Unity Fountain in Abuja, Ughegbe said the coalition had lost confidence in the Federal Capital Territory Police Command, in its handling of the case “as a result of their compromising postures.” He called on the IGP to transfer the case to the Force Gender Office, where there are very competent and professional officers well trained to investigate crimes around Sexual and Gender-Based Violence. He said, “The letter they sent to me inviting me to the police, they wrote my name very wrongly and they addressed it to Babylove School in Lugbe. I am not addressing you or the police in the capacity of Babylove. All the statements I have issued on behalf of the coalition were at the instance of Men Against Rape Foundation and they know where to find me. “The fact that they have gone to my school and my house is clearly to intimidate me and my family and tell us that we are not safe if I continue to seek justice for Keren-Happuchj since they know where to find me. “And as I talk to you, strange fellows are all around our school and home environment now. “We feel unsafe and if anything happens to me or any member of my family please hold the Deputy Commissioner of Police, FCT, Fom Pam Joseph responsible. But let me assure him that this movement is beyond me and cannot be silenced, we must seek justice for Keren and we are determined to do so.”