Some northern youths, under the aegis of the Arewa Youth Consultative Forum, have carpeted Prof Itse Sagay for dismissing the 2023 presidential ambition of Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, declaring that the legal luminary goofed. Sagay was reported to have claimed that the governor had no records to show to warrant his presidential ambition, but the National President, AYCF, Alhaii Yerima Shettima, in a statement in Kaduna on Thursday, said the Senior Advocate of Nigeria was economical with the truth. Shettima stated, “I am not holding brief for the young Kogi governor, because I know he is capable of defending himself any day, but I am exercising my freedom of expression as a stakeholder in the Nigerian project. “I think it is quite unfair to make pretentious comments about Kogi State, which is the most peaceful state in the North today.” The AYCF boss noted that both age and dynamic political thinking might no longer favour Sagay, adding that the global trend on the democratic scene had been in favour of mentoring of “energetic new breed of leaders.” He added that the likes of Sagay “take to advisory role based on their wisdom as elders and not the direct drivers of the democratic system.” According to him, it is wrong for Sagay to “indulge in subtle condemnation of young and upcoming new generation of Nigeria’s political class.” Shettima said, “All Nigerians, including the people of Kogi State, think their governor will be contesting in 2023 based on competence and not because he is southerner or northerner, unless Sagay thinks we are not practising democracy, but a turn-by-turn political system, which does not even exist in any system of civil governance in today’s world. “Prof. Sagay should respect the processes of electing a leader under a democratic system and perish the thought of undemocratic turn-by-turn contraption.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com