The Federal Road Safety Corps, Kano and Edo states commands, have deployed 1,440 and 1,250  operatives respectively to ensure a hitch-free Eid-el-Kabir celebration in the states. The FRSC Sector Commander in Kano, Mr Zubairu Mato, in a statement on Saturday, said three ambulances, 14 patrol vans and one tow truck had been deployed to major routes and highways. He said these were to ensure the free flow of traffic on critical road junctions, adding that the campaign would start from July 20, the News Agency of Nigeria reports. The sector commander said the measures were also to ensure enhanced visibility and safe road usage, before, during and after the festive period. He said that the deployed operatives included 120 officers, 940 regular marshals and 500 special marshals. He said, “Patrol will also enforce strict compliance to COVID-19 protocols by road users along major roads within the state during festive period. The special operations will checkmate all life-threatening traffic infractions, reduce road traffic fatalities through aggressive enforcement, massive public sensitisation, and postcrash emergency response.” Also, the FRSC in Edo says it has deployed 1,250 men for special operations during the Eid-el-Kabir celebration. Sector Commander of the cops, Mr Henry Benamaisia , disclosed this to  NAN in Benin City on Saturday. Benamaisia also said that the corps had deployed 25 patrols vehicles, two heavy duty tow trucks, one tow van, and three ambulances across corridors  where traffic would be likely critical during the period in the  state. The sector commander said that the 1,250 operatives deployed all over the state would ensure that the critical corridors and other parts of the state were adequately covered. “They will also ensure that potential traffic gridlock areas have free movement of vehicles, and massive visibility across the state in order to ensure quick response services. We will also be working alongside friendly forces to ensure a hitch-free Sallah celebration.” Meanwhile, the Kwara State Police Command has said that it deployed 2,000 of its officers across the state to ensure that the forthcoming Eid-el-Kabir celebration has hitch-free. The Police Public Relations Officer, SP Ajayi Okasanmi, disclosed this in a statement to journalists on Saturday. The statement read, “The command has deployed a total number of 2000 strong officers and men, in addition to special tactical units comprising the Force Animal Branch, Mounted troop, police Mobile Force, anti Kidnapping, anti cult, Explosive Ordnance Department and men of the command’s intelligence unit. “Criminals are warned of the consequences of their criminality, as the full weight of the law will be brought to bear on anybody arrested for any act of lawlessness”. According to the statement, the command advised Muslim faithful to enjoy the sallah celebration and holidays without any fear of attack or molestation, as both entry and exit points to the state will be sufficiently policed.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com