The Ogun-Oshun River Basin Development Authority has raised the alarm that it will release a large volume of water from the Oyan dams to cities in both Lagos and Ogun states. The Managing Director, Ogun-Oshun RBDA, Olufemi  Odumosu, disclosed this on Monday in a statement. The PUNCH had exclusively reported that the authority was to write governors of Ogum and Lagos states, warning them over the looming flooding in their states. Odumosu, in the statement said the authority had begun subtle release of water from the dams in July, and might release more water into the cities in Lagos and Ogun states due to the pattern of rainfall. He hinted that an average of 7-9 million cubic meters  (mcm)  would be released per day in September. He also said the OORBDA intended to create maximum space in the reservoir to impound more water and release it at a controlled average rate of 13-15 million cubic meters (mcm) per day. Odumosu explained that the multipurpose uses of the Oyan Dam include bulk water supply to Ogun and Lagos States, irrigation infrastructure for agriculture, aquaculture cage fish farming, flood control and hydropower generation potentials. The statement reads partly, “It is within our prerogative and optimal target in our integrated Reservoir Operations, at this time of the year, to reduce water level in the reservoir to the barest and practical minimum level so as to create more space in the Reservoir Storage for Flood Control. “In this July, 2021, we are maintaining the Releases of an average of six to eight million cubic meter (mcm),; as of today we have reduced the water level to 57.08meters above main sea level which represents 85.6% of the flood control section of the designed capacity of Oyan River Dam. “In August, 2021, our Releases may be reduced to the range of four to six million cubic meters (mcm) per day with a mind of maintaining water level below 57.50metres above the main sea level. “In September, 2021, we may likely increase our water releases to an average of seven to nine million cubic meters (mcm) per day while at the same time preparing for the main flood in October. “In October, 2021, we intend maximizing the created space in the reservoir to impound more water and release it at a controlled average rate of 13 to15 million cubic meters (mcm) per day or less so as to allow other major and uncontrolled tributaries to River Ogun discharge into the sea while our impounded water will be released gradually at an average rate of one to three million cubic meters (mcm) per day till November and December 2021 when the gates may be likely closed for the year 2021.” He added, “In mitigating the foreseen flooding of this year, downstream of the Oyan Dam, we recommend that all stakeholders should always monitor the rain forecasts in our area so as to have a probable idea of what may likely be the effect on our immediate environment.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com