A few months ago, I was speaking to a fellow warrior in the sickle cell community. Our conversation led to the issue of health insurance and she was so passionate about the topic that I asked her to write something to me about it. I hope you find this column informative: Managing sickle cell can be financially draining for parents and adults who are sickle cell warriors and this is the reason why many people refer to us as (money pit); meaning no matter the amount of money thrown inside a pit, it can’t be full. However if we are going to change this label we need health insurance that can cover the medical expenses of sickle cell disorder.  I am Oluwakemi Oguntimehin, a sickle cell warrior and founder of Ignite Sickle Cell Initiative. It is a known fact that Nigeria has the highest number of people living with sickle cell disorder in the world and despite the large number of people affected, there is not enough health insurance to support the management of this disorder. Sickle cell disorder is a genetic disorder that causes a mishap to the shape of the red blood cell in the body, giving it a sickle shape.  This disruption in the shape is responsible for many complications associated with sickle cell. Due to these complications of sickle cell disorder, people living with sickle cell require constant care, which involves an excessive financial cost. The management of sickle cell requires routine drugs, frequent medical checkup, routine blood tests, emergency hospitalisations for painful crisis, getting scans or MRI done, high cost surgery due to some complications such as Avascular Necrosis, and frequent hospitalisation for a crisis or due to many other complications as the case may be. Recently the cost of treatment in any Nigeria hospital has doubled, due to user charges in public hospitals and high inflation. The cost of many drugs has doubled and many have tripled the initial price.   An infant single hospital admission can cost between N50, 000 to N200, 000 depending on the hospital and the complications treated.  This is a large amount of money that an average Nigerian cannot afford. Many parents have gone out of their way to borrow money and sell their valuables which my parents did several times and I have also done it too. I remember that my dad sold his Toyota Hilux to pay for my hospital bills.  Imagine him not having a Hilux to sell at that critical time? What would have happened to me? Some days I had to keep managing myself at home because there was no money to pay for the hospital bills or to also buy drugs.  My work in the rural community has made me aware of parents who have to use herbal concoction because they can’t afford hospital bills. I had seen warriors who lost their lives because there was no money for blood transfusion. Sickle cell management is highly costly and without medical insurance many can’t afford it, especially those living in the rural communities. Many parents and adults who live with sickle cell have gone broke from paying many hospital bills; some sickle cell warriors have been abandoned to care for themselves by family members; many have dropped out of school and some have even died untimely because they couldn’t afford to go to hospital; many resorted to self-medication which worsened their health and caused more complications to surface, and in many cases lives were lost. These can be solved with the provision of health insurance for people living with sickle cell.  Unfortunately many health insurance schemes in the country exclude sickle cell because it is expensive to manage which will leave the health companies with no profit. As someone living with sickle cell, I can say that 70 per cent of my income goes to the management of my disorder.  I witnessed my dad sell his car to pay my hospital bills and other parents are left with nothing after paying for their sickle cell warriors’ hospital bills. Lack of health insurance for the management of sickle cell disorder is impacting on people living with sickle cell in the following way: Neglect by family members: Many people living with sickle cell have either been neglected or abandoned by their families because they see them as a curse due to the financial implications of managing the disorder.  Many of these parents will not have done this if they could access health insurance. High mortality and morbidity rate in people living with sickle cell: As we all know that people living with sickle cell can live long and ensure good health with good management.  However, how do parents who are broke or who cannot afford to pay more hospital bills help their children living with sickle cell? And how does a sickle cell warrior who is currently unemployed and couldn’t afford to pay their hospital bills give themselves proper management? Lack of health insurance for people living with sickle cell is causing loss of worthy citizens, who can contribute to the greatness of society. Increase in poverty rate among parents of people living with sickle cell: Due to high financial burden of managing sickle cell, many families have become broke which can be avoided with the existence of health insurance. Late diagnosis of preventable complications: Because many couldn’t afford to go to hospital for check up and routine tests, several complications are detected late, which cost more money, time and resources to manage.  With insurance, it is easy to visit the hospital for routine check-ups. Less treatment received when sick: Many parents and sickle cell warriors often discharge themselves early, including myself, to reduce hospital bills because the longer they stay, the more money they pay. Having health insurance will enable many people to receive the right treatment. High hospital bills: Health insurance provides universal health to people living with sickle cell disorder. People in rural communities can also receive good health care no matter where they are and who they are. Self meditation/ drug abuse: When they can’t afford to pay for hospital bills, people tend to opt out for self-medication and abuse of drugs like overdose, under dose and addiction. Nobody wants to remain in pain for hours. With the provision of health insurance for people living with sickle cell, many can live long in good health. If you would like to get in touch with me about this article or about sickle cell, please do so: t.dehinde@yahoo.com and do visit my blog: www.howtolivewithsicklecell.co.uk.   My book on sickle cell: How To Live With Sickle Cell is available for purchase on OkadaBooks and Amazon. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com