The national secretariat of the All Progressives Congress has vowed to sanction any leader of the party in Kwara State who undermines the leadership of Governor Abdulrahman AbdulRazaq. The senators representing Kwara State at the National Assembly, stated this in a statement on Saturday. The statement was signed by Senator Ibrahim Oloriegbe (Kwara-Central) on behalf of his other colleagues, Lola Ashiru (Kwara-South) and  Sadiq Umar representing Kwara-North. The senators said they met with the Chairman of the APC Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, Governor Mai Mala Buni, in his Abuja office on Saturday over the crisis rocking the party in the state. The Minister of Information and and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, and the state governor are currently embroiled in supremacy battle over the authentic leader of the party in the state. Mohammed, who claimed that his loyalists were being sidelined in the scheme of things in the state had set up a factional secretariat of the party in Ilorin and constituted a parallel state executives of the APC in the state. But senators in the state said in their statement that the national leadership of the party had said the state governor remained the authentic leader of the party in the state. The lawmakers also said the party had threatened to sanction any recalcitrant leader who engaged in any act of insubordination against Abdulrazaq. Their statement read in part, “The visit provided us the opportunity to rub minds together on the party affairs in Kwara State and they assured us of drastic efforts being taken towards finding solutions to all forms of disagreements. “We were also able to establish that the national leadership is not in support of any division as the executive Governor of the State, Mallam Abdulrahman AbdulRazaq remains the only recognised leader of the party in the state whilst the state’s party secretariat with address uploaded on the party’s website remains the approved and valid office. “It was also made known to us that the party leadership would not condone any form of insubordination as serious sanctions would be meted to any recalcitrant member.” The statement also noted that  the state chapter of the party would admit new members from the opposition party desirous of joining the party and put plans in place towards having a hitch-free congress in the state and at the nation at large. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com