The Kaduna State Government has warned that the third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic is already in the country and the Delta variant of the virus is responsible for the rising infections, hospitalisations, and deaths in some parts of Africa and Nigeria. Consequently, the State government restricts Eid-el-Kabir prayers to mosques, neighbourhoods, warns against large gathering of Muslims faithful because of the COVID-19 pandemic This was just as the Emir of Zazzau, Amb. Ahmed Bamalli announced the cancellation of Sallah celebration in the Zazzau Emirate following the emergence of third phase of COVID -19 pandemic. He said medical experts had advised that the third phase of the virus was a deadly one and very easy to be contacted. According to the monarch, reports by the Presidential Committee on Coronavirus shows that Kaduna State is one of the six states and FCT that are on the red alert and this make it neccessary to cancel the annual traditional durbar. A statement signed by the Deputy Governor, Dr Hadiza Balarabe on Monday noted that the “situation has put Kaduna, FCT, Kano, Oyo, Rivers and Plateau states on RED ALERT.’’ ‘’At this time, when Muslim faithfuls are in the peak of preparations for the Eid-el-Kabir celebration, it has become crucial that we do not relent in efforts targeting prevention and containment of the Delta variant of the Coronavirus,’’ she added. Balarabe who is the Chair of the State Task Force on COVID-19, also called on ‘’Traditional and Religious leaders as well as all residents of the State to be more proactive in safeguarding their own health, that of their families and by extension, overall health of the public.’’ The Deputy Governor advised that residents of Kaduna state should ‘’prioritize strict adherence to all the protocols in places of religious and social gatherings.’’ According to her, government has to  “minimize the risk of importation of the variant in the State through strengthened surveillance at all points of entry, putting suspected cases in quarantine.’’ The statement further said that government will also ensure that confirmed cases are put in isolation and managed till they no longer pose a threat to Public Health. She said that citizens should comply with safety measures for a safe Eid-el Kabir, adding, “Eid prayer should be decentralised to neighborhood Friday mosques and prayers to be conducted outdoor (preferably).’’