About six days after the demise of popular singer and basketball enthusiast, Olanrewaju Fasasi, aka Sound Sultan, tributes have continued to pour in from all sections of the entertainment industry. A statement sent to Saturday Beats by Pretty Okafor, the President of the Performing Musicians Employers Association of Nigeria, described Fasasi as one with unblemished character who had a positive influence on the lives of the people around him. The statement read in part, “What a dark moment for the entire entertainment industry as you passed on at this time that you were needed most. We must admit that your untimely exit has created a vacuum in the creative industry because you were indeed a centre of attraction, with an unblemished character and a positive influence on the people around you. Your contributions towards nation building through your inspirational music will forever be remembered. At this point, even though we are still in shock and pain over your demise, we still fall back to the Almighty God in prayers to accept your humble soul.” Showbiz personality and 2baba’s manager, Efe Omorogbe wrote, “The fans may remember you as a creative genius— multifaceted and enduring. The industry may remember you as easy-going, witty and fun to be around. Your friends know. We know that you were one of the realest, kindest, most dependable and inspiring human beings we had ever been blessed to roll with. You are always going to be the shining star amongst your circle of accomplished colleagues. It’s been indeed, an honour to have walked this earth side by side a gem like you. It’s been a blessing to have called you ‘friend’.” Another entertainment personality, Edi Lawani, in a tribute sent to Saturday Beats, wrote, “I lost a son. It’s a hard pill to swallow. One of the cleanest among us has gone to be with his maker. May Allah receive him in His bosom. Amen.” On his part, popular producer, Olumide Ogunade, aka ID Cabasa, said, “There are many lessons I learnt from Lanre. We both shared similar energy in terms of the things that we believed in. I have many memories of him. We did a song together that would be released soon.  The way he balanced his work with family and spirituality was commendable. He didn’t smoke, drink, womanise or engage in any of the vices associated with entertainers. Yet, he had influence and impact. He was one of the few people I had very good conversations with beyond music.” A comedian and actor, Bethel Njoku, aka Senator, stated that he initially thought the demise of the late singer was ‘fake news’. He said, “I felt it was fake news. We were actually planning for his own scene to be shot via Whatsapp call for the sitcom, ‘Papa Benji’. He said he had got someone to do his make-up for the role. So it was shocking for me to hear that. The ‘ninja’ was super human. He was a selfless and very humble human being, who never looked down on anyone. He gave his time to supporting people’s dreams. He was a very organised person, and was committed to his family.” Meanwhile, rapper, Jude Abaga, aka MI, wrote, “You were never afraid to share your greatness through any medium. You were a good man, the epitome of integrity. No one I have met can say one single bad word about you. In a country and industry that rewards the ruthless and greedy; you stood tall, generous and kind. I celebrate you because you have done well. I mourn you because you were not finished. I share a thought and prayer for those even closer to your person and light than we were.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com