A member of the New Era Oodua People’s Congress, Tope Lucky, has gone into hiding after allegedly killing another member of the group, Wasiu Ogunnaike, in the Epe area of Lagos State. PUNCH Metro gathered that Lucky and some OPC members trailed Ogunnaike to a location in Epe, where the suspect allegedly used a knife to stab the 42-year-old during a disagreement. Our correspondent learnt that the disagreement bordered on the deceased’s membership of the Eiye Confraternity cult. Upon the discovery, members of the OPC, including Lucky, were said to have sacked Ogunnaike from their group. A source told PUNCH Metro that they also instructed the victim to return his membership clothes. “But he refused, which led to a fight; he was stabbed to death with a knife by Tope Lucky, who led about five other members to attack Ogunnaike. So, the Epe Police Division was alerted to the incident and they gave the suspects a hot chase and arrested some of them,” he added. PUNCH Metro learnt that Lucky went into hiding after perpetrating the crime, while three suspects, including Badejo Obafemi, Yusuf Ramon and Tunde Agbadanla, were arrested by the police. The state Police Public Relations Officer, CSP Muyiwa Adejobi, said the case had been transferred to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, Yaba, for further investigation. He said, “On June 20, 2021, around 7am, one Ogundimu Semiu reported that some group of New Era cult in Epe, Lagos State, numbering about six, went to Wasiu Ogunnaike, and one Tope Lucky brought out a sharp knife and stabbed Wasiu Ogunnaike, 42, to death. “A team of anti-robbery men, led by the Divisional Police Officer, CSP Okosodo Barnabas, moved to the scene, arrested Badejo Obafemi, Yusuf Ramon, Tunde Agbadanla, who are all members of the New Era cult, while others are still at large.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com