Scores of farmers in Oghalegbu village, Okija, in the Ihiala Local Government Area of Anambra State, have been trapped across the Ulasi River as they can no longer access the upland following the cut-off of the only road leading to the community by gully erosion. PUNCH Metro learnt that the villagers went to their farms only to discover that they could not return to their houses as the erosion had cut off the road. A source said, “The road was constructed during the administration of former Governor Peter Obi and it helped in the transport of food crops from the agricultural rich community. “Due to the heavy rainfall in the past few days, vehicles from outside the community could no longer get to the point where the farmers usually displayed their crops for sale and the farmers, whose crops were being expected in the market, have been trapped.” An indigene of the village, Mr Charles Okonkwo-Uzor, confirmed that people who went to their farms had yet to return because the erosion cut off the only road to the river. He said, “Our people were happy when this road was built by Governor Obi as it made it easy for farmers to transport their produce. Outsiders were also coming to the village to buy, thereby improving the economy of the people. “With the farming season getting to its peak, many farmers have been looking forward to a bumper harvest and the resultant economic empowerment, but their hope may be dashed by this sudden cut off of the area by gully erosion. “This community is one of the food baskets of Anambra State and the state government should do everything possible to combat the erosion so that food crops can easily be transferred to other parts of the state.” The state Commissioner for Information and Public Enlightenment, C-Don Adinuba, said he was not aware of the incident. He promised to contact the Ihiala LGA chairman for more information and get back to our correspondent within 24 hours. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com