A former chief security officer of the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, Kaduna State, Mr Sheu Bello, has accused some suspects arrested in connection with kidnappings in the institution of implicating him. He said the suspects indicted him because he always assisted the police in tracking down bandits. Our correspondent had reported that three suspects – Abubakar Aliyu, Abubakar Yakubu, aka Dogo, and Isaa Kabiru aka Wicked – were arrested by operatives of the Inspector-General of Police Intelligence Response team for allegedly kidnapping two lecturers and four others in the institution. Aliyu and Yakubu indicted Bello as the mastermind but Kabiru said he was not involved in the crime, adding that he used to buy stolen cows from the gang. However, Bello, well known as Danlamin, debunked his involvement in the kidnappings in an interview with our correspondent during the week. The 49-year-old former CSO also denied being sacked from the office, noting that he was “ceremoniously relieved of the post” and became the officer in charge of the National Security Institute of Animal Production Research under the university. He said, “I hold a master’s degree in Disaster Risk Management. I started working at the university in 1993 as a technical assistant at the Agric Department and rose to the rank of an assistant technical officer. I then moved to the university’s security division on the main campus on the request of the then Chief Security Officer and the then Vice- Chancellor, because I used to assist in the security operations of the university. “When I got there, I was the officer in-charge of the auxiliary security staff and became the OC (officer-in-charge) X-Squad in 2007. I was asked by the university management to design an office that can handle cultism and violent crimes and I became the pioneer head of that unit. That was the post I held until I became the acting Chief Security Officer of the university in 2020. “When I was the CSO, I worked with security agencies, including the IRT and Special Tactical Squad. There were few kidnapping incidents around the university before I became the CSO. I worked with the police in combating these incidents and suspects were arrested. Some of the victims in those cases were staff members who lived outside the university, but there was one involving the daughter of the former VC of the university, Professor Abdullahi Mustapha. “There has never been any dispute per se between the present VC and me, but there is always politics on the campus. There are people who wanted to become the CSO and they were peddling different kinds of stories since I was appointed the acting CSO by the former vice- chancellor.” Bello explained that his men together with the police arrested about 11 suspects who were consequently charged, adding that those eyeing the CSO office exploited his loyalty to the former VC to spread negative stories about him. He stated, “I wasn’t surprised when they mentioned my name and that of Adol Bello as their sponsors because we have been a thorn in their flesh for a long time. I cannot get myself involved in such a crime with all I have achieved in life. I can’t do such outside the university, let alone in the university where I was born and where my parents also served. The university is my home; I can only protect it and not harm it. The people who mentioned our names know our importance in the university and they know we will stop at nothing in dealing with violent crimes within the university.” The Acting Director, Public Affairs of the university, Auwalu Umar, said he did not have the full detail of the kidnappings but Bello had no issue with the institution. He said, “I need to do further investigation but he was not sacked. He was acting CSO and was redeployed. He is still in the employ of the university and we don’t have any issue with him.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com