The Sultan of Sokoto and President General Nigeria Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III, has admonished leaders in Nigeria to fear Allah. Sultan Abubakar in his Sallah message said the hardship in the country needed to be addressed holistically. He said, “Nigeria leaders need to be strategic to address poverty and insecurity. Such will further sustain the unity and peaceful co-existence that is in existence in the country.” The Sultan called on farmers to put more effort in farming in order to produce sufficient food for the country, while calling on security agencies to protect them. Also, the state governor, Aminu Tambuwalm in his state-wide address, said, “As we celebrate Eid-el-Kabir, I enjoin us all, to imbibe the spirit of brotherhood. It is a time to cleanse our hearts and the intentions of our acts for the sole purpose of securing the reward from the Almighty and the benefit of society.” Likewise, the Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, and the Senate spokesperson, Ajibola Basiru, on Tuesday told Muslim ummah to celebrate sallah moderately. Both men spoke separately shortly after participating in the two Rakaat Prayers at the Osogbo Central Praying Ground to mark the eid celebration. Oyetola said, “I want to enjoin you all and our people in general to live in peace and celebrate this Eid-el-Kabir moderately. We should extend hands of fellowship to the less privileged. We must continue to maintain peace. We must not forget the fact that this Covid-19 pandemic is not gone yet. We must observe all the safety guidelines and protocols. In his remarks, Basiru, urged people to be conscious of the challenge posed by COVID-19 and celebrate with moderation. In the same vein, Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State in a statement  urged the people of the state to pray for the end of insecurity, while urging them to beware of COVID-19. H e said, “It is very important, since the third wave of COVID-19 is in sight, we should be able to follow the protocols to prevent its spread. “We should continue to pray to Allah to continue protecting our state and the entire country from the insecurity situation that we are witnessing at the moment,” he added. Also, the Ondo State Governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, in a statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Mr Richard Olatunde on Tuesday called for sacrifice and love. The statement reads partly, “This celebration brings to mind the significance of sacrifice and love. We must not lose sight of this in our lives and that of our country. We must not only preach love and harmonious relationship with others, we must show it.” ‘There’s much to lose if Nigeria is divided’ Likewise, the Chairman, Senate Committee on Army, Senator Ali Ndume has warned that Nigerians have a lot to lose if the country is divided. Ndume, who is representing Borno South Senatorial District, in the National Assembly, made the appeal in a statement he issued on Tuesday, to mark this year’s Eid-el-Kabir celebration. The Senator said, “We stand to lose a lot if we continue to dwell on what divides us rather than focus on what unites us as people.” He enjoined Muslims to imbibe the spirit of unity, tolerance for a peaceful coexistence. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com