A former Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, has expressed disappointment that politicians who benefitted from the electoral reforms championed by the Peoples Democratic Party in 2015 were currently frustrating efforts to strengthen democracy. Ekweremadu is currently attending an official assignment in Montenegro as the Nigerian representative at a prescheduled regular session of the International Parliament for Tolerance and Peace. His statement titled, ‘Ekweremadu optimistic about electronic transmission of results in 2023,’ was signed by his media aide, Uche Anichukwu. The lawmaker restated his commitment to ensuring that the results of the 2023 general elections should be transmitted electronically. He said, “It is very unfortunate that those who rode to power on the back of the electoral reforms and conducive democratic environment engendered by PDP administrations have continued to take various caustic measures to frustrate further electoral reforms.” Ekweremadu said he was not deterred by the attacks on his person by the uninformed over the outcome of the voting on the electronic transmission of results. Instead, the Senator restated his faith that “results of the 2023 elections will ultimately be electronically transmitted because it is the best way to go.” He noted, “The issue of electronic transmission of results should not be reduced to party or sectional dichotomies. “Every lawmaker is expected to vote in support of what is best for the country, irrespective of political affiliation.” The Senator resolved to work with other patriotic and progressive lawmakers to resurrect electronic transmission of results upon the resumption of the National Assembly, starting from the point of harmonisation of the clauses passed by the Senate and the House of Representatives. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com