The Ogun State Government has appealed to the Federal Government to immediately secure the release of a Nigerian citizen currently languishing in detention in the Benin Republic. The government made the appeal in a statement issued by the governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Kunle Somorin, on Friday. The government said one Pastor Kunle Garb, a resident of Igbokofi village in the Yewa North Local Government Area of the state, was abducted at the village market last week by gendarmes (Beninese police). The statement said that the Benin Republic police reportedly crossed illegally into the Nigerian territory to carry out the daring act after scaring away traders and other Nigerians at the market. The statement read, “Pastor Garb, an activist, who has been consistently campaigning against the incessant harassment of Nigerians by the Beninese in attempts to forcefully annex the Nigerian territory was taken away in a Gestapo manner by the armed security agents from the neighbouring country. “Pastor Garb has since been charged and remanded under inhuman conditions in the Benin Republic and prevented from having access to his lawyers, doctors and members of his family. “In a protest to the Federal Government, Gov Dapo Abiodun narrated the ordeal of Nigerians living in the border towns of the state and Benin Republic. He also called for prompt actions by relevant federal authorities to prevent further harassment of Nigerian citizens and encroachment on the Nigerian territorial borders. “The governor also called on the National Boundary Commission to step up actions to clearly demarcate Nigeria’s international borders with Benin Republic, while calling on Nigeria’s security agents to properly secure Nigerians in the border communities and our country’s borders with the neighbouring country.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com