Suspected Boko Haram fighters operating on 11 motorcycles, in the early hours of Wednesday, invaded Dabna village and adjoining communities in Adamawa State and allegedly killed scores. Dabna is less than three kilometres from Garaha, the hometown of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha. Eighteen corpses had so far been recovered from the dawn attack and more bodies were being expected to be discovered because of the way the attack was carried out. The Chairman, Hong Local Government Area, Adamawa State, James Pukuma, who gave the casualty figure, said a joint team of security officials had restored normalcy and was helping with the recovery of the dead. He explained that the attackers did not come looking for food but to cause terror, adding that the attackers, who came on 11 motorbikes, waylaid and gunned down fleeing members of the community. The council boss added, “The attackers came on motorbikes and waylaid their victims, who they chased and opened fire on. We learnt that they came on 11 motorbikes each conveying two to three persons. So far, 18 corpses have been recovered with the help of security agents, who have restored normalcy. “Most of the attacks are around the Sambisa axis; we want our people to be vigilant and report any suspicious movement to security agencies. Because this is the rainy season, without such measures, it means vast communities from these areas will be unable to farm.” Earlier, a resident of the area, who spoke to The PUNCH on the telephone, said no fewer than 20 bodies had been recovered following the attack. “This morning (Wednesday), heavily armed gunmen invaded Dabna community. No fewer than 20 persons are believed to have been killed in the attack. At the moment, the military has recovered 18 corpses. One of the vigilantes in the area was also killed. The attack also affected Garka, where a lot of residents fled to,” he said. The military, however, said the information at its disposal was that only two corpses had been recovered from the community. The Army Public Relations Officer, 23 Armoured Brigade, Jalo Cantonment, Major Sani Mohammed, told our correspondent on the telephone that the brief he had indicated that only two corpses were recovered after the attack. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Suleiman Nguroje, said he was not authorised to speak on the attack since it had to do with Boko Haram. In his reaction, former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar condemned the attacks. The 2019  presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party on his official Facebook page, wrote, “I categorically condemn the killings in some communities of Adamawa earlier today, he said. “Human life is sacrosanct and no matter how often these attacks occur, we must never get used to them. They are unacceptable. “They must stop. And we as Nigerians, have a duty to work with government at all levels to make sure that these attacks are brought to an end.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com