The Indigenous People of Biafra, on Wednesday, cautioned the Nigeria Police to stop arresting and parading innocent youths on allegations bordering on terrorism and arson, saying members of the Eastern Security Network were not involved in planting explosives. The group claimed such allegations were mere propaganda by the Commissioner of Police in Imo State, Abutu Yaro, to implicate its leader, Nnamdi Kanu, who is currently in the custody of the Department of States Services in Abuja. According to IPOB, the claims by Yaro that four members of the ESN were recently arrested while planting explosives are not only false, but mischievous, describing the claims as another subtle move to further implicate Kanu. The secessionist group stated this in a statement signed by its Director of Media and Publicity, Emma Powerful, a copy of which was made available to The PUNCH. The statement read in part, “We, the Indigenous Peoples of Biafra, under the leadership of Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, have noted with great amusement the desperation of the Imo State Commissioner of Police, Abutu Yaro, in collaboration with the Imo State Supreme Court Administrator, Hope Uzodimma, to implicate the Eastern Security Network and IPOB through trumped up and laughable allegations. “This desperation, smear campaign and media propaganda are part of their agenda to blackmail IPOB and possibly establish grounds to indict our leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, currently in the custody of the Department of State Services. But they will not succeed, because the world already knows the truth. “We, therefore, wish to refute the claims by the Imo CP that the four persons paraded by the police in Imo were ESN operatives arrested while attempting to plant explosives in the state. There is no element of truth in such claims aimed at demonising the ESN and portraying the gallant security outfit as a terrorist organisation, which it is not.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com