A former Attorney-General of the Federation, Mohammed Adoke, SAN, has petitioned Italy’s Minister of Justice over the conduct of public prosecutors, Fabio De Pasquale and Sergio Spadaro. He accused Pasquale and Spadaro, who are public prosecutors in the criminal prosecution of Eni/Shell and others for corruption and money laundering, of forgery and professional misconduct. Adoke’s position was contained in a petition by his lawyers, Gromyko Amedu Solicitors, titled: ‘Re: Mohammed Bello Adoke, SAN. Complaint of acts of forgery and professional misconduct against Fabio De Pasquale and Sergio Spadaro, public prosecutors before the Court of Milan.” The petition, dated July 1, 2021, was signed by Femi Oboro on behalf of the law firm. Oboro, on Adoke’s behalf, accused the prosecutors of unlawful acts of intimidation/threat to life, forgery of documents/evidence intended for unlawful interference with the administration and perversion of the course of justice. He said the prosecutors acted “maliciously and unprofessionally” to the detriment of the former minister despite the fact that he was not a direct party to the criminal prosecution and was not on trial before the Milanese court. He recalled that sometime in May 2016, Adoke met the Italian and Dutch investigators at The Hague, Netherlands, in respect of OPL 245 settlement agreement of 2011. On the scheduled date, he said Adoke was interviewed by Dutch/Italian investigators in the absence of Pasquale. He added, “However, on the second day, the nature and character of the interview changed with the presence of Fabio De Pasquale, who informed our client that he was being interviewed as a suspect. “This was contrary to the intent and purpose of the interview as agreed between our client and the Dutch/Italian investigators. Since it emerged that Fabio De Pasquale was engaged in an unlawful and deceptive conduct to wit; to commit our client to be interviewed without a prior knowledge that he was a suspect, and that his statement was intended for his criminal prosecution by the Italian prosecutor.” Oboro also accused the prosecutors of engaging in unlawful acts of procuring forged documents/evidence. He also accused them of engaging in unlawful acts of forgery by procuring and stage-managing a phony telephone interview, which purportedly took place between a certain Ms Carlamaria Rumor, said to be a staff member of RAI Television in Italy, and Adoke in November 2015. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com