A committee comprising officials of the Federal and Ogun State Governments has been set up to create a developmental plan for the Lagos/Ibadan railway corridors as well as forestall illegal activities which may pose threats to commuters and rail services. This was disclosed in a statement by the Ogun State Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Tunji Odunlami. Odunlami while with officials of the Nigerian Railway Corporation in Lagos said the move was in anticipation of the tendency for people to build slums or shanties along the corridors of rail stations located within the state. He disclosed that five out of 10 train stations along Lagos/Ibadan railway stations were domiciled in Ogun State, adding that there was need for the state to take bold steps towards preventing illegal development of structures. “The train station is more viable for business and investment opportunities mostly for real estate developers. That is why we need to have a proper plan for the rail stations, so that we can ensure development around these corridors which the federal and state government will be proud of in future”, Odunlami said. The commissioner asked for cooperation from the NRC to avert haphazard development along the passageways so as to prevent the vandalisation of public assets. The Ogun State Commissioner for Transportation, Mr Gbenga Dairo, said official operation of the rail system had impacted greatly on the socioeconomic activities of the state and assured of government’s support for the project to benefit the public. The Managing Director of the NRC, Mr Fidet Okhiria, represented by the NRC Director of Operations, Mr Niyi Alli, said the corporation would ensure that necessary arrangements were in place for the smooth running of rail stations, while assuring of the Federal Government’s readiness to assist the state. Members of the committee comprise the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Environment, Rasaki Ojetola, a representative of the Ministry of Transportation, Olawale Shokunbi, a representative of the Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development, Sola Odukoya, a member of the NRC, Wahaab Amodu, and an official of the Federal Ministry of Transportation, Samsideen Balogun. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com