A group of pensioners that exited service under the Contributory Pension Scheme in Osun State has commended Governor Adegboyega Oyetola for making their welfare a priority. The pensioners, who belong to an arm of the state chapter of the Nigeria Union of Pensioners gave the commendations during an interactive session with Oyetola in his office, at Abere. The leader of the group, Mr. Oyadare Gbenga, applauded the governor for the hand of fellowship continually extended to them. Oyadare said, “The calibre of people in the committee that you set up to handle the issues even before we went to Abuja is very superb. That is why we have the confidence to go back to our people with smiles on our faces after we have had fruitful meetings with members of the committee. “One thing I appreciate most about you is the fact that you are very tolerant and accommodating and this fact can be attested to by your approach to issues that concern the welfare of the people, particularly workers. In his remarks, Oyetola commended the NUP members for their unflinching support and show of understanding. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary, Ismail Omipidan, on Saturday, quoted Oyetola as saying, “I am happy to receive you. I commend you for the courage in fighting for your colleagues to claim your rights. One thing is that if we have money, we will pay, as you all know that despite the meagre resources, we have been faithful to our obligations. “I want you to exercise patience. As things improve, we will be fulfilling our obligations. We want you to be more tolerant, patient and perseverant. We are working assiduously to do all that is necessary to make life meaningful and worthwhile for you. Let us continue to dialogue and negotiate.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com