The Federal Government is yet to fulfil its promise to the aviation sector as N22bn meant to sustain the sector remains unpaid. The government had last year pledged its support to the sector by announcing a sum of N27bn to help sustain the sector amid the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Our correspondent gathered that only N5bn had been disbursed to some stakeholders while others were yet to receive any funds. The Assistant Secretary for Aviation Safety Round Table, Olumide Ohunayo, in his recent presentation at the Airport Business Summit, had called for transparency in the sector. In an interview with our correspondent, the aviation analyst said the total amount of money allocated to the aviation sector was N27bn but only N5bn had been disbursed. He said “We have an outstanding payment of N22bn. The minister said the N22bn is still with the government agency. There is a problem with keeping the sum of N22bn for a national carrier when the objective of that money is to help these organisations. “The idea of the fund is to save existing jobs and organisations. There are many organisations that need these funds due to the fallout of COVID. The US had their own and ensured that there was fairness in the distribution of their funds to all organisations.” According to him, there were steps put in place in the US to monitor the disbursement to ensure that no company pay excess money to their executives, declare insolvency or sack workers. “In Nigeria, nobody monitored if the money was properly disbursed. It was some airlines who came out to say that they did not get part of the money disbursed,” he added. When contacted, the Director, Public Affairs, Federal Ministry of Aviation, James Oduadu, told our correspondent that the N22bn had not been released by the Federal Government to the ministry. He said the N22bn was not meant for the national carrier alone but also to help other agencies under the ministry. He said, “The N22bn has not been released at all to the ministry. It is not just for the national carrier; it is also meant as palliative to the agencies under the ministry. Other agencies are meant to get from the balance of the money from the Federal Government which has not been released.” He noted that some of the agencies had yet to recover fully from the impact of the pandemic. “The agencies are still struggling to meet up their obligation, especially in terms of payment of salary, allowances and others. Their revenue generation had not stabilised; so when they get the palliative, it would help to stabilise them,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com