THE Makurdi Zonal Office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission EFCC has arraigned the Chairman, Benue State Independent Electoral Commission, Loko Joseph, and eight others for alleged fraud and money laundering to the tune of N500m. Among those arraigned were the Serki Mtomba Manaseh (secretary), Akange Akula (Treasurer) and five other members/Commissioners; Abe Augustine, Donald Kertyo, Agber Emmanuel, Sunday Agbaji, and Ekoja Danie. The suspects were arraigned before Justice Audu Dogo of the Federal High Court sitting in Makurdi, Benue State. According to EFCC statement in Makurdi, the defendants were docked on 23 counts bordering on conspiracy, criminal breach of trust, misappropriation, forgery and money laundering to the tune of N500m. Count one of the charges read, “That you, Loko Tersoo Joseph, Chairman of Benue State Independent Electoral Commission (BSIEC); Serki Manasseh, the Secretary of BSIEC; Akange Akula, Chief Accountant of BSIEC; Abe Augustine, Commissioner for Planning, Research & Documentation of BSIEC; Donald Kertyo, the Commissioner for Operations of BSIEC, and Agber Aondona Emmanuel, the Commissioner for Works & Transport of BSIEC; Sunday Agbaji, the Commissioner for Information & Public Affairs of BSIEC; Ekoja Daniel, the Commissioner for Finance of BSIEC; sometime between February to June, 2020, in Makurdi, Benue State, within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court, did conspire amongst yourselves to commit felony to wit: money laundering and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 18(a) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2011 (As Amended) and punishable under Section 16(2)(b) of the same Act.” The defendants pleaded ‘not guilty’ to the charges preferred against them. Based on their pleas, the prosecution counsel, Ramiah Ikhanaede asked for a trial date as well as requested that all the defendants be remanded in a correctional facility. However, counsel for the defendants, B. A. Iorhegh, presented an oral application, asking the court to admit the defendants to bail on self recognition or in the alternative, grant them bail on liberal terms. Justice Dogo admitted the defendants to bail in the sum of N10m each with one surety in like sum. One of the bail conditions was that all defendants were banned from travelling outside Nigeria without the knowledge of the Court,” Justice Dogo ruled. The case was adjourned till September 28, 2021 for the commencement of trial. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com