Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna State has stated why he “temporarily” withdrew his son, Abubakar Sadiq, and daughter, Nasrin, from the Kaduna Capital School, a public school located at Isa Kaita Road, Ungwan Sarki Muslimi, Kaduna. El-Rufai said the school had been threatened by three banditry groups and that he was concerned about the safety of lives of the pupils and teachers. Sadiq was enrolled in the school in 2019. El-Rufai said the banditry groups were planning to attack the school and kidnap his son, according to security reports made available to him. The governor, who  disclosed this in an interview with BBC Pidgin, also revealed that he even enrolled Sadiq’s younger sister, Nasrin, when she marked her six birthday, but that the security reports forced him to “temporarily” withdraw both children. He said his children were being homechooled and only going to  school to take their examinations. He, however, said they would return to the school when the security situation improved. El-Rufai said, “My son and my daughter are registered in the school. We also registered Sadiq’s sister in the school when she clocked six. But we had to temporarily withdraw them for the sake of the security of the school because we received security reports that three (banditry) groups were planning to attack the school and kidnap my son. “I don’t think they (kidnappers) would have succeeded because there are enough security agents in the school to prevent them. But it would expose other pupils to danger. We don’t know the kinds of weapons they would have brought. “I have taken a stand against the payment of ransom and we had reports that three groups were planning to kidnap my son from Capital School to see whether I would pay ransom or not if they kidnapped my son.” “Both Abubakar Sadiq and Nasrin will return to the school when there is an assurance that their attendance will not put the school at risk.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com