The House of Representatives, on Thursday, faulted the Federal Government over the number of farmers said to have been registered in Kebbi State under the ongoing nationwide registration. The House urged the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development to send enumerators to Kebbi State for the purpose of registering the farmers and mandated its Committee on Agricultural Production and Services to inspect the data centre, where the registration of farmers is being undertaken. The committee was also mandated to interface with the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Sabo Nanono, to “ascertain the criterion used to appoint the enumerators that registered the farmers as well as the fertiliser subsidy regime for farmers in Nigeria.” This is sequel to the unanimous adoption of a motion moved by Shehu Koko, titled, ‘Victimisation of the People of Kebbi State in the Ongoing Nationwide Registration of Farmers’. Koko noted that the ongoing registration of farmers was for the purpose of fertiliser subsidy for the 2021 farming season. The lawmaker said, “The government and people of Kebbi State are not informed either by way of official communication, advertisement or jingle of the registration of farmers in Nigeria. “The Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources had engaged private enumerators for the exercise, who also did not inform the government and people of Kebbi State. “The House is alarmed at the concocted figure of 95,000, which was said to be the registered farmers in Kebbi State. Kebbi State is predominantly a farming state and over 90 per cent of its population are farmers.” Koko stated that the essence of the exercise was to use the data or information obtained for the purpose of providing subsidies on fertiliser in the current farming season. “The exercise claimed to have been carried out in Kebbi State did not reflect the true position of farmers in the state, and this has placed Kebbi State at a disadvantageous position. The singular act of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development suggests unfairness on the government and people of Kebbi State,” he added.