The Ekiti State Government, on Tuesday, pledged to cooperate with the Federal Capital Territory Police Command in the investigation of a security official attached to the wife of the governor, who was accused of raping a lady. The Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr Olawale Fapohunda, said this in a statement. The statement read in part, “The attention of the Ekiti State Ministry of Justice has been drawn to a complaint of rape against a security official deployed in the state Government House and attached to the convoy of the wife of the governor. The incident is alleged to have taken place on Monday, July 5, 2021, in Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory. “The case is now being handled by the Criminal Investigation Department, FCT Command of the Nigeria Police Force. The state government will cooperate fully with the police investigation team to ensure that the matter is investigated thoroughly. “The victim is receiving extensive psycho-social and legal support to cope with the trauma and seek justice, and her identity is being protected.” The commissioner lamented the high incidence of sexual abuse in the state, saying the 121 rape cases being prosecuted across the state at present were worrisome. He said the number was “particularly disturbing considering that this statistic only relates to victims or their relatives, who are willing to support the ministry in the prosecution of these cases.” Fapohunda, in the statement titled: ‘Additional measures to curb sexual violence in Ekiti State’, said the figure would be more alarming if unwilling victims were added to it. To redress this, the attorney-general said additional measures taken by the government to curb sexual violence included a bill criminalising attempt to hinder prosecution of rape cases and legal protection of gender-based violence whistleblowers as encouragement for citizens to speak up and speak out on sexual violence in the state. He said the ‘Hindering Prosecution Bill’ before the state House of Assembly made it a criminal offence “for any person to seek to hinder or unlawfully influence the office of the attorney-general to discontinue certain criminal matters, including rape, sexual assault and child defilement and prescribed five years’ imprisonment on conviction.” Fapohunda, who spoke on plan to confiscate private accommodation, hotel accommodation and related places used for the rape of minor, said, “The Ministry of Justice is currently working on a legislative proposal that will allow the government to revoke the Certificates of Occupancy of such properties with a view to converting them to rehabilitation centres for ex-convicts. The commissioner added that the ministry would continue to aggressively pursue Governor Kayode Fayemi administration’s zero tolerance for all forms of sexual violence. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com