The adequate enforcement of regulations by regulatory agencies in the built environment is the major way to halt building collapse across the country, BSTAN Group, an indigenous real estate firm, has said. Speaking in Abuja at the signing of four new brand ambassadors for the firm, the President, BSTAN Group, Becky Olubukola, urged the Council for the Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria and other industry regulators to come up with regulations that would stop building collapse. She said there was a need for quality control in the sector, adding that the public should also get the right orientation when constructing buildings. Olubukola said, “For me, it is about quality control – building what people can live in while thinking about yourself. “COREN and other regulatory agencies should also come out with regulations that can stop the deficit in housing and collapse of structures.” She added, “People should also have the right orientation about building construction. When an engineer serves you a bill, negotiate; don’t say the bill is too high and you then give the job to a bricklayer. “As far as we need to put regulations and sanctions in the industry, there is also a need for the people of Nigeria to know the right things about good building construction process.” Olubukola urged the brand ambassadors to represent the standards and quality of the BSTAN Group brand at all times. “For our newly appointed ambassadors, we are expecting goodwill, good information, spread the good news and represent the quality and standards of this brand,” she said. She urged the ambassadors to give out the right information to people on how they could afford affordable homes in Nigeria and the benefits of investing in the Nigerian real estate sector. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com