Seventy-five aggrieved councilors of the All Progressive party in Ogun State, on Monday, accused the state Governor, Dapo Abiodun, of betrayal of trust. They also accused the governor of breaking his promise of granting them automatic tickets to return as councilors in the forthcoming Local Government Council election. Spokesman for the councilors, Adio Abiola, claimed that they were deceived into making sacrifices to ensure the governor emerged victorious in the 2019 election. Abiola, who spoke with the company of others, appealed to the governor to fulfill his promise. Abiola, recalled how the 75 councilors rejected enteritis to dump the APC by the Immediate past governor of the state, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, who wanted them to join the Allied Peoples Movement for the 2019 election. Abiola said” It’s therefore on record that Prince Dapo Abiodun did promise us – all the 75 DA Councilors beforehand, that we shall be given automatic tickets to come back as councillors being the compensation for our political sacrifice and withholding of our emoluments and political benefits as councillors under Governor Amosun.” “Prince Dapo Abiodun, promised us, among other things, that we shall come back as councilors in new dispensation and be given N25,000 monthly stipend each, until we, the 75 DA councilors, were given automatic tickets to re-contest in all our Political Wards spread across 236 political wards and 20 local government areas of Ogun State. “Alas, since more than two years of Governor Dapo Abiodun on the Governorship Seat in Ogun State, we – 75 DA councilors – are still floating, suffering and nowhere to be found in the All Progressives Congress political calculations; in Governor Dapo Abiodun-led Government of Ogun State and even at our local government areas!” “This goes against the saying; ‘Words mean nothing when your actions contradict’ and of course, “the saddest thing about betrayal is that it never comes from your enemies, but your Friends and in our own case – It’s actually coming from Governor Dapo Abiodun; our friend, the man who earned our loyalty and political support but threw us in the dustbins!” Attempts to get reactions from the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Kunle Somorin, failed as he did not respond to the text message sent to his mobile line and when he was called it rang out. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com