mrs.Kehinde Taiwo was 15 when she noticed a white patch on her right hand. Even though she didn’t know what it was, she was unbothered. As time went by, the small patch began to spread. Then, two weeks after, the patch appeared on her left hand. Months later, the white patches started to appear rapidly. And, as the year continued, the white patches – later confirmed to be vitiligo – had spread across her hands, legs and face. “It became very obvious a year after but I didn’t feel awkward about it,” she told PUNCH HealthWise. “My mother has it too. She noticed the white patches on her neck and fingers few months after giving birth to me and we both didn’t know what it was. But now, it has spread all over her body; in fact, she has turned white.” Vitiligo is a skin condition characterised by patches of the skin losing its pigment. The patches of skin affected become white and usually have sharp margins. The hair from the skin may also become white. According to a Consultant Physician and Dermatologist at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Ikeja, Dr.Folakemi Cole-Adeife, a person with vitiligo may have a gradual loss of skin colour on parts of their skin, until the affected parts become white or pink. “Other than the pale skin colour, there are usually no other symptoms. It affects all races but it is quite distinct in darker individuals like Africans, as the contrast between the normal skin and the vitiligo-affected skin is quite glaring. Vitiligo is not contagious,” the dermatologist said. Vitiligo, Dr. Cole-Adeife said, is an auto-immune disorder, even though it is still unclear what triggers it. “This means that the body is erroneously fighting and destroying a part of itself. There are many theories or hypotheses as to why this auto-immune destruction occurs, though none has been confirmed. “Vitiligo has been linked to certain genes as it is found to run in families and is also linked to some other auto-immune conditions. It has also been linked to a phenomenon called oxidative stress – when certain biological by-products in the body are not sufficiently cleared from the tissues and cause damage or stress to the cells and tissues in the body,” Cole-Adeife said. According to the Vitiligo Research Foundation, the average prevalence of vitiligo is between 0.5 percent to two percent of the world’s population, but local numbers may vary from 0.004 percent to 9.98 percent, depending on the region and age group. “The total number of people suffering from vitiligo is estimated at around 65-95 million people worldwide. However, the actual number may be much higher because vitiligo is an underreported disease,” the foundation noted. According to an online news portal, WebMD, in most cases, vitiligo develops early in life, between ages 10 and 30, and will almost always show up before age 40. “Vitiligo may run in families. You’re more likely to get it when someone else in your family has it, too, or when people in your family get grey hair prematurely. “There’s no known way to prevent or cure vitiligo. But you can make your affected skin look better. Which treatment may work best for you depends on how old you are, how much skin needs improving, and how much your vitiligo affects you,” WebMD noted. Taiwo told our correspondent that when the white patches became more prominent, out of concern, a teacher advised her to consult traditionalists who would “cure” her of the skin condition. The gods are not to blame “The teacher said I have Obatala,” she said. Obatala is believed to be the Sky Father and the creator of human bodies. After much persuasion from her teacher, her mother and her then-boyfriend, she visited the traditionalists where she was told to serve the deity in her hometown, Ijebu-Ode, Ogun state. “I was given a full list of things to buy, which cost about N173,000. I was told to buy a bucket of snail, a cock, a local mat, shea butter, yam, water yam, alcohol, among others,” she said. She was made to worship the deity for seven days in an old building without a roof, where it was believed the deity would answer her prayers and cleanse her of the skin condition. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com