Operatives from the Inspector-General of Police Special Response Team, on Saturday, arrested nine suspects, including a traditional chief in Kajola, Odo-Owa and Omu-Aran in Oke-Ero and Irepodun local government areas of Kwara State, over alleged burning of Gaa Fulani (Fulani camps) in the communities. The police team, according to multiple sources, stormed the two communities in the small hours of Saturday to pick up the suspects, who allegedly participated in the arson attack in Kajola, Odo-Owa and a hotel in Omu-Aran in April. As a result of the arrest, the traditional markets in Iloffa, headquarters of Oke-Ero local government council, and Odo-Owa could not open on Saturday. Two of the suspects, including a chief, were picked up while sleeping in their homes in Odo-Owa, while the other seven were arrested in Omu-Aran, a source told our correspondent. It was gathered that the operatives first went to the house of a TIC member of Oke-Ero local government who was not at home before they proceeded to arrest the chief and another youth in the town. It was further gathered that some youths in Odo-Owa gathered to prevent the arrest as information circulated in the town It was gathered that there was an exchange of fire between the IGP team and the youths, during which a few of them sustained gunshot wounds. During the encounter, six of the youths were arrested, while three pistols, six cutlasses, two axes and two motorcycles were recovered from them. The suspects were said to have been taken to the police headquarters in Abuja. The Police Public Relations Officer in Kwara State, SP Ajayi Okasanmi, said he was not aware of the arrest of the suspects. He said, “I have yet to be briefed. I will enquire and get back to you, please.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com