The habit of itinerant medicine men and even women to proclaim the efficacy of their medicines in the open spaces of motor parks, markets, and bus stops around the country is one of the most amusing things you can ever see in a typical Nigerian city. Some are no better equipped for their trade than the typical market woman. Others, who have become more affluent either from a lucky break in their practice or from the benevolence of a relative, are able to afford some form of motorised transport with which they can easily move from one point to another. They sell anything and everything from Tetracycline capsules and Flagyl tablets to Paracetamol and herbs. Some market only herbs, and with the aid of blaring loudspeakers mounted on their vehicles, they make astounding claims. They also propagate illiteracy in an environment where they are able to claim that Staphylococcus aureus can cause fibroids, infertility, and can even become a viral infection! And all of this is without regulation. In the end, they mortally injure the very people to whom they have the most access: the very poor, the ignorant, and the dyed-in-the-wool believers in traditional medicines. While the average member of that community, and even some more enlightened ones, have become experts in what Staph. aureus can or cannot do, they have neglected an organism that lives among us in huge numbers. In fact, they do not know about it. That organism is a fungus known as Aspergillus flavus. It lives in our kitchens, pantries, and even in our refrigerators in an environment where the power supply is epileptic or non-existent. This organism, which is only one of a species that has several members, causes its havoc through a toxin it produces. This particular member spends most of its life in the soil where it grows and feeds on decaying and decayed organic matter. This kind of behaviour is known as saprophytic conduct. It is the second most common type of Aspergillus and it has been found before in hospital wards and in people’s homes. It is the moldy substance you would often have seen growing on and spoiling food items such as bread and other baked foods, corn, groundnuts, vegetables, and tomatoes. It is often seen as a dark film growing on bread and groundnuts but as a white fluffy substance on tomatoes, vegetables, and corn. This unwanted food additive perhaps occurs in every home in sub-Saharan Africa. It loves moisture and it is completely unknown to the charlatans we talked about in the first paragraph. If they would devote half as much energy to highlighting the dangers of consuming foods that are tainted with the very presence of this organism as they spend talking about Staph. aureus, many people could be saved from the agony of an untimely, miserable death. This fungal organism causes infections in plants, human beings, birds, and animals. Aspergillus flavus looks like cotton when growing on some types of food. It is, therefore, able to produce spores that can be breathed in and cause a kind of pneumonia with an unusual appearance on X-rays. The spores are also notorious for causing sinusitis and ear infections. In hospital wards, especially in the surgical wards, these spores can invade wounds caused by burns or road traffic accidents and grow to establish a foothold within the skin to cause cellulitis or the exposed bone to cause osteomyelitis. It can also be responsible for an invasive eye condition that leads to keratitis when the cornea is involved. It produces aflatoxin, a type of toxin which can affect the liver to cause acute fulminant hepatitis, suppress immunity, and cause changes in the architecture of the liver that can lead to liver cell failure or even cancer. These aflatoxins, which are essentially four different types of toxic chemicals, often target the liver and completely kill off the cells by inducing tissue necrosis. When they do not do this, they alternatively cause the formation of a tumour in the liver that ultimately becomes a cancerous growth. The different aflatoxins are called B1, B2, G1, and G2. The most potent of these toxins is the B1 and it is the one most likely to cause cancer of the liver and also the one most likely to cause extensive liver damage by provoking serious and continuous liver cell death. The effects of these problems over a period of time are that the affected person becomes stunted in growth, experiences easy bleeding episodes within the gastrointestinal tract, and loses appetite. In addition, weakness and a predisposition to other infections as a result of a weakened immune system become a problem. In the final analysis, death occurs slowly and miserably over a long time. Most of the damage it causes is done through the toxin it produces. This organism and the diseases it can cause are important because the very people who are the most vulnerable to getting infected with it are the very ones most likely to buy the local herbs at the bus stop or market. The substances often used in the various mixtures probably contain the deadly toxin. What perhaps delays the rate at which they fall ill will be based on the dose of the toxin they consume. Besides, the poor and ignorant are the ones who often will wait till the market is about to close so that they can go in and buy the tomatoes which are going bad, the vegetables which harbour these fungi and believe they have got a bargain on the items purchased. They believe they are providing food cheaply for their families but in fact, they are buying a future with hefty medical bills for the treatment of the various conditions which they may develop but with absolutely no hope of them being able to afford such treatment. It is an irony of a supreme order that they know a lot, even if wrongly, about Staph. aureus which cannot do them much harm ordinarily but almost nothing about a deadly poison on which they are willing to spend all the money they have only to be consumed by it. Aspergillus flavus is one of about eight members of the same family. It can also attack the white blood cell-producing line manufacturing neutrophils and cause a depression in that part of the white blood cells which fights off infections. The appearance it causes is similar to that seen in people on cancer treatment. It leaves the individual open to any form of infection and death can easily result even from the most common infections. Getting an infection or liver injury from this organism is not a hopeless situation. Treatment is available with the use of such medications as  Amphotericin B, Voriconazole and Caspofungin. Sometimes, these medications have to be instilled directly into the spinal cord when the brain has become involved. So what happens in most cases? Many of these people are taken ill, they go to the very same medicine hawkers in whom they believe so much and take their various products for a period of time. When they fail to improve, they go to the neighbourhood chemist for some medications usually prescribed by themselves or their friends. When they do not get better, they go to a nurse in the community who is often not even trained. By the time they arrive in the hospital, they are presenting very late. They are much poorer having spent all their money on the way from the herbal medicine dealer: they are unable to afford even the most basic of all laboratory investigations and the sequelae are best imagined. These problems are probably more common than is generally evident because even in 21st Century Nigeria, many of these patients do not get to a proper hospital even for one day before they die. Unfortunately, even the cause of death is rooted in superstition and there is no meaningful attempt made to uncover the cause of death. However, aflatoxin came to be known to medicine when in 1960, in an English poultry farm, 100,000 turkeys died over a matter of days. An inquiry led investigators to a certain batch of their food and diligent analysis of it revealed the various toxins mentioned above to be the cause. Autopsy for birds. This is a useful tool often rejected in Nigeria under all sorts of guises. The journey remains far indeed. That finding led to profound changes in how food is harvested, transported, processed, and stored. Dear doctor, thank you very much for the advice you have been giving me and other readers on this page. Sir, recently my fiancé was diagnosed with high blood pressure. He is a fit guy of 42 years of age and we were surprised by the diagnosis. The blood pressure was an average of 175/106mmHg and he was placed on Amlodipine 10mg; Lisinopril 5mg and Esidrex 25 mg, all of them daily for three months. He has started taking them but we are not sure whether by taking them daily he is supposed to take them together or separately. What is your advice, sir?0811xxxxxxx This is very strange and I am almost too certain that the doctor you saw told you how to use these medicines. Remember that you are treating one condition and are trying to prevent complications arising from that condition. You should take them at the same time so that they can work together and give your fiancé the results that are desirable. Dear doctor, your good works are appreciated. I am a 72-year-old man. The problem is sometimes twice in the middle of the night, I will wake up feeling hungry with a sweaty forehead. Sometimes, I will take an apple or have a drink. It happens in the daytime too. My doctor queried what he called hypoglycaemia. No treatment was given but I was to make more observations. He ordered a blood sugar test twice and the result was 107 and 133mg per cent. My blood pressure has remained constant at 120/90 mmHg with a heart rate between 65 and 70 beats per minute. Sir, what should I do? Kindly advice.  0706xxxxxxx  I agree with your doctor that you could be having spells of hypoglycaemia but we need to put this into some context. Do you actually eat enough at your age? Is it possible that at your age, what you consider to be a meal may actually be a small amount of food? These questions are important because there is nothing that seems to be alarming with your blood sugar even though you failed to specify whether you had fasting blood sugar estimated or it was random blood sugar. At 133mg per cent, if what you did was a fasting blood sugar, it would mean you probably have diabetes which could affect you like this if you take irregular meals. If you did a random sugar, or 2 hours postprandial, that result would be a normal one. Therefore, hunger appearing together with a sweaty forehead will require a better mode of investigation along the lines suggested above which could include a glucose tolerance test and estimation of your glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) to determine what your blood glucose control was over the previous three months. These would help determine what could be wrong. Dear doctor, thanks for all you do for us with your write-up. Please what can I do with my legs? Anytime I am climbing stairs, I always hear crackling sounds in my knees. Though there is no pain, it is really irritating. I hope it will not develop into a serious matter in the future. 0806xxxxxxx Thank you very much for your question. Your age and weight, as well as whether you are male or female are important in helping me to arrive at the proper advice for you. As it is now, none of that information is available and so I would just tell you that the most likely cause of the sounds you hear is arthritis. You may experience a deterioration of the condition of those knees by which time there will be pain. Besides, increasing age and how much mobility you are engaged in are other factors that can make this worse. Your best bet is to see your doctor for an examination which would include X-rays of the two joints and he would tell you what medications to use from now on and what kind of exercises you must perform. Dear doctor, I read your article “Where is your pain”? in Sunday PUNCH of June 20, 2021. The very place where you put an arrow at the back of the picture as “kidney” pain has been paining my wife for the past 15 years with no solution despite all efforts made. Please can you shed more light on it for me because each time the pain comes, it gives her a headache? Thanks and remain blessed. I live in Ogun State. 0802xxxxxxx Any kind of pain deserves to be properly investigated so that the root cause can be found and the proper treatment given. Fifteen years is a very long time for any ailment to fester. The key finding that has to be made in your case is whether, as you put the pain, is from the kidney and its related structures, or whether the pain is from elsewhere in the body like the hip or waist. For these distinctions to be made, you need to take your wife to a team of doctors of different specialties to plot the way forward. By the time all the relevant investigations have been concluded, a cause would be found. I am of the opinion that this has yet to be done in a diligent way.  Dear doctor, I thank God for your life. May God continue to be with you. Amen. Sir, I am a man above 80 years old. I have hearing, touching, tasting, and smelling problems. Anything I eat or drink is tasteless including bitter leaf and scent leaf. My smelling ability too is poor and I don’t perceive odours no matter how strong they are. What might be wrong with me and what do you advise I do in this situation? Thanks and God bless sir and thanks in advance for your urgent response. 0803xxxxxxx Thank you very much, sir, for your prayers and your question. While it is normal to lose some sense of smell and taste as we age, it dramatically deteriorates after the age of 80. About three-quarters of people of your age will complain of this disability. It can become a threat to life when for example you walk into your home and the gas cylinder is leaking and you are unable to smell it. A spark of anything in such circumstances can cause an explosion. But that is only a part of the story; for you to lose the ability to hear, taste, smell, and feel at the same time is unusual and a vitamin deficiency may be responsible in addition to age. I would advise you to see a physician as soon as possible for a thorough examination and he may find it necessary to refer you to an ear, nose, and throat surgeon as well. Dear doctor, I am a 46-year-old woman and my body has been acting in a funny way. I have pains in the right-hand side of my back and also in the left lower abdomen. When I press that left side, I feel the pain in my right back. I saw a doctor last Sunday who examined me and he said there was nothing wrong. He then asked me to use Diclofenac gel but there has been no relief at all ever since I started using the ointment. What do you advise sir? Thank you very much. 0803xxxxxxx There is not much of a problem. However, there is a need to conduct an important examination if you were to choose one and that would be an abdomino-pelvic ultrasound scan. If the origin of your pain is located within the abdomen, as it is my strong suspicion that it is based on what you described, that kind of gel will have no effect and the diagnosis will be unknown. So, see another doctor for a second opinion and get that ultrasound scan done. You will be better for it. Dear doctor, for some time now, I have been battling malaria. After treatment, it will relapse. The recent one started with a cold which was followed by a runny nose and that resulted in a cough for which I am now taking Contac capsules. When I cough, my head aches as if it wants to fall off. Now, the cough is less but I keep having body pains, loss of appetite, and an uncomfortable chill every evening. What should I do please? And my urine is just yellowish. Thank you.   0802xxxxxxx The most important thing in your circumstance is that there is no indication that you ever ran any test to help in diagnosing what you were treating. In the 21st Century, it is probably ill-advised to embark on treating any ailment without proper laboratory confirmation. You should run a basic blood test such as full blood count like we discussed on this page several months ago and get the lab to make a blood film and study it while also looking for malaria parasites. The latter is notorious for causing a predominantly evening sickness and there is no indication from your story that the treatment you took prior to this time was followed by a confirmatory test to be sure whatever was there was gone. These tests can reveal a lot about your body when you are ill so get them done and see a pharmacist or your doctor with the results so that you can be better directed. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com