The Parent-Teacher Association of the Federal Staff School and the Federal Staff Secondary School in Benin, Edo State, have threatened to take legal action over the alleged imposition of unexplainable fees, poor maintenance of the schools and the poor working condition of staff. The parents, through their lawyer, Olayiwola Afolabi, wrote to the school management and threatened legal action if the demands made during their meeting over the weekend were not met. At the meeting of the both PTAs chaired by Charles Erikefe, the parents accused the Chairman of the Committee of Heads of Federal Government Establishments, which is the administrative organ of the school, Moses Ajayi, of paying deaf ears to their demands and passed a vote of no confidence in him. The resolutions reached at the meeting included that members of the schools be placed on the national minimum wage, the salaries of staff for the period of the COVID-19 lockdown be paid as well as the return the management of the schools to the Board of Governors as enshrined in the article of the Committee of Heads of Federal Government Establishments. The parents also want all the board members, who do not have their children in the schools, to relinquish their positions as they do not have a stake in the schools. But in a swift reaction, the COHEADS and Board of Trustees of the schools announced the suspension of the PTA of both schools. A statement signed by the Secretary, COHEADS, Funmilayo Imuetiyan, said, “The Board of Trustees of the Committee of Heads of Federal Government Establishments, Edo State, has approved the suspension of the Parent-Teacher Association activities in the Federal Staff School and the Federal Staff Secondary School, Benin City. “The suspension is to tame the rising intransigence, confrontational attitude and an attempt by the current leadership of the PTA to constitute itself into a government within a government.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com