The Chairman and Managing Director, Chevron Nigeria Limited, Mr Rick Kennedy, has identified effective industry policies, low carbon emissions, gas development, collaboration for cost reduction, and digital technology/innovation as strategic imperatives for fortifying the Nigerian oil and gas industry for economic stability and growth. Kennedy noted that the entire industry continued to face strong headwinds including the challenges associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. He spoke on Wednesday during a panel discussion at the Nigeria Oil and Gas Conference & Exhibition in Abuja, according to a statement. He said the global community had continued to scale up the collaboration towards lowering carbon emissions. “Chevron supports global efforts to reduce carbon emissions and is actively investing in operations to improve environmental performance while also working with industry to develop new innovative technology and best practices to achieve these objectives,” Kennedy said. He said the company planned to spend some millions of dollars in 2021 to advance projects in key focus areas, namely energy efficiency, flare reductions, venting and fugitive reductions, renewables, as well as carbon capture, utilisation, and storage. “Chevron has joined other energy companies supporting the Methane Guiding Principles to reduce methane emissions from natural gas exploration and production operations through digital innovation and deployment of best practices,” he added. He said the NNPC/CNL Joint Venture had progressively reduced routine gas flaring by over 95 per cent in the past 10 years and had remained ahead in terms of maximising supply of on-spec gas into the Nigerian domestic market. While commending the Nigerian government for the efforts in pursuing legislations for the industry, he stressed the need for the legislations, policies, and regulations to bolster investor confidence and to be globally competitive to protect existing investments, unlock opportunities, and help reduce the cost premium of operating in Nigeria. According to Kennedy, the legislation should assure investor confidence by resolving legacy debt, establishing gas pricing that is competitive and covers the cost of development and operations, and improving security for people and assets. He said CNL had been making significant investments in Nigeria for close to 60 years, adding that it was optimistic about the future of the oil and gas industry in Nigeria, with the right policies, laws and regulations that would stimulate growth in the industry. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com