The Oyo State Government on Monday confirmed the death of two persons of COVID-19. This is just as the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control said that it was carrying out genomics sequencing of samples among travellers coming into Nigeria. The NCDC had last week alerted the public to the presence of the Indian strain of the coronavirus, known as the Delta variant. According to the NCDC, the strain came into Nigeria through an inbound flight, adding that the centre had been working alongside the African Centre of Excellence for the Genomics of Infectious Diseases and other laboratories. However, the Oyo State said it would be unfair to say that the two deaths were Delta variant related. However, the Director, NCDC, Dr Chikwe Ihekweazu, in an interview with The PUNCH on Monday stated that the centre would continue to carry out certain tests on inbound travellers. He said, “It is important to note that there is a global risk of spread of the Delta variant and other variants of concern. This is why we continue to carry out genomic sequencing of samples among positive travellers – irrespective of the flight of origin. “It is important to note that genomic sequencing is an addition to the existing surveillance mechanism. Once a positive case is detected, contact tracing is done by the state Ministry of Health irrespective of the variant detected. We will continue to carry out sequencing to detect variants, and use this data to guide our public health. Ihekweazu also warned Nigerians on the risk of not adhering to public health rules. He said “It is important for Nigerians to understand that the risk of virus mutation is higher when there is a high transmission of the virus. This underscores the need for all Nigerians to ensure strict adherence to COVID-19 public health and social measures.” He also advised states to ensure the availability of testing kits “States are urged to ensure that sample collection and testing are accessible so that people who have symptoms or have been exposed to a positive case get tested quickly. Irrespective of the variant, the known public health and social measures remain extremely important to prevent the spread of the virus. This includes regular hand washing, physical distancing and the proper use of face masks in public places. “While we have recorded an increase in the daily reported cases of COVID-19, it is too early to attribute this increase to the Delta variant. Two die in Oyo Also, the Oyo State COVID-19 Task Force has confirmed the eath of two persons in the state. The state Incident Manager and Coordinator of the Emergency Operations Centre, Dr Olabode Ladipo, told our correspondent on Monday that two persons who tested positive for COVID-19 were reported to have died. But the incident manager said it would be unfair to say they died of Delta variant of the virus. He said, “The sample was taken after death and so it would be unfair to say they died from complications of the Delta strain. “We didn’t have much opportunity to assess the client for a long period before death. It could have arisen from a coexisting morbidity which complicated the infection. “As such, the point is that the variant was isolated from samples taken from the deceased.” The task force had on Sunday announced the presence of Delta variant of COVID-19 in Oyo State. Ladipo said, “Contact tracing is an ongoing process and we have recorded success. We do that (contact tracing) for every case we pick and we isolate them. “In the past two weeks we have seen about 29 cases altogether (new variant and regular ones).” He did not specify how many Delta variant cases out of the 29. ‘COVID-19 protocols’ll be enforced’ Similarly, the Nigeria Police said it would continue to enforce the COVID-19 regulations as directed by the Federal Government. The Force spokesman, Frank Mba, a Commissioner of Police, said this in response to inquiries by The PUNCH on Monday. Mba said, “We have an existing protocol on the enforcement of COVID-19 Regulations.  We will continue to observe and implement those regulations as humanely and as operationally possible.” UN wants schools reopened The United Nations on Monday charged World leaders and policy makers to prioritise the safe re-opening of schools to avoid what it tagged “a generational catastrophe”. This was contained in a statement jointly signed by UNICEF Executive Director Henrietta Fore and UNESCO Director-General Audrey Azoulay. The UN said students staying out of school for a long time had implications. The statement reads “It’s been 18 months since the COVID-19 outbreak started and education for millions of children is still disrupted. As of today, primary and secondary schools are shuttered in 19 countries, affecting over 156 million students. This should not go on. Schools should be the last to close and the first to reopen. “In their efforts to limit transmission, governments often shut down schools and kept them closed for prolonged periods, even when the epidemiological situation didn’t warrant it.” It added, “The losses that children and young people will incur from not being in school may never be recouped. From learning loss, mental distress, exposure to violence and abuse, to missed school-based meals and vaccinations or reduced development of social skills, the consequences for children will be felt in their academic achievement and societal engagement as well as physical and mental health. The most affected are often children in low-resource settings who do not have access to remote learning tools, and the youngest children who are at key developmental stages.” The UN agencies said the reopening schools could not wait, adding, “There is clear evidence that primary and secondary schools are not among the main drivers of transmission.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com