The family of a 33-year-old man allegedly arrested and tortured to death by a combined team of policemen attached to the Yelwa division and a vigilance group in Bauchi State, has debunked the claim that the deceased was asthmatic, insisting that he died after he was tortured in police custody. Saturday PUNCH had reported that the late Dauda Danladi was arrested by the team of security agents in front of his shop located in Yelwa Tsakani, a suburb of Bauchi metropolis, about 9pm on Thursday and was taken to the Yelwa division, where he was allegedly tortured. The Police Public Relations Officer, Bauchi State Command, Ahmed Wakil, in a statement on Saturday morning, claimed that the deceased was asthmatic and died in a hospital where he was rushed to by a patrol team. Wakil, a Superintendent of Police, said, “On Thursday, July 8, 2021, about 10.30pm, police patrol team raided a suspected criminal hideout at Yelwa Tsakani and arrested two suspects. During the course of the operation, the team equally received a distress call about a person who had slumped and was gasping for breath. “Police rushed to the scene and met the victim who was later identified as Dauda, surname yet unknown, lying unconscious and reasonably suspected to have an asthmatic attack. He was quickly evacuated by the patrol team to the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University Teaching Hospital for medical attention where he was unfortunately certified dead by a medical doctor. “For the avoidance of doubt, the command reiterates that the victim did not die in police custody as widely speculated by some mischievous persons who want to mislead the public for reasons best known to them.” But a cousin of the late Danladi, Zainab Sani, told our correspondent that he was never asthmatic, adding that he was hale and hearty at the time of his arrest by the police. Sani said, “It’s a lie.  We lived together in the same house for over 30 years. He never even had pneumonia let alone asthma. They lied. His wife told us that he was okay when he left the house to go to his shop that day. She said she even cooked food and took it to him there.” She insisted that he was tortured to death by the police, adding that justice should be served. She added, “We don’t believe that he fell in front of his shop and was gasping for breath. If they took him to a hospital, why didn’t they call to tell us? She said that the incident had left the family devastated, particularly the deceased wife who got married to him barely six months ago. A meat seller who has a stand behind the late Danladi’s shop, Abdullahi Adamu, said, “Everyone in this area knows what happened since it was in the full glare of the people that the police took him into their vehicle and left. I followed them to the police station to see if they would be released, but it wasn’t possible. I returned only to hear about what happened the next day.” Meanwhile, the Acting Community leader of Yelwa Tsakani, Dauda Karatu, said he was shocked about the incident, adding that the police stormed the area to make arrests and didn’t inform him. He said, “We have a vigilance group in the area and they are helping in maintaining peace and security. When the police were coming to the area, they didn’t inform them and they didn’t inform me either. “The youth of the area became angry at what had happened because it was the second incident in the area. We had so much difficulty in pacifying them because some of them threatened to burn down the station. “Immediately, I called the youth leader and told him what the youth said. I told him to act fast and control the youth before the situation got out of hand. Thank God the situation was put under control.” He appealed to the youth and Danladi’s family for calm, urging the police to be sincere in their investigation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com