Doctors won’t make you healthy. Nutritionists won’t make you slim. Teachers won’t make you smart. Gurus won’t make you calm. Mentors won’t make you rich. Trainers won’t make you fit. Ultimately, you have to take responsibility. Save yourself – Naval Ravikant I started with the above quote this week because of my concern about the high rate of slimming herbs consumption and their adverse effects on health. The other day, a lady came down with hypotension and was hospitalised after taking slimming tea. Truly, there are herbs that burn fat but no one knows what is packaged in the ones you buy. Most people are only concerned about money making. Personally, my belief is that the best and safest ways to shed weight are your decision to lose weight, reduction in calories and exercises. Take your eyes off slimming teas to protect your internal organs. If you are conversant with Yoruba culture, you must have noticed that some leaves are always stuck inside the caps of newly installed chiefs. That leaf is newbouldia laevis and that is what I will discuss today. It belongs to the family Bignoniaceae. It is popularly known as the tree of life or fertility tree in Nigeria. Its local Nigerian names include ewe Akoko (Yoruba), Aduruku (Hausa), Ogirisi (Igbo). The use of plants to facilitate birth or to protect the young embryo appears to be a common practice among traditional healers. Newbouldia laevis is one of such plants and its leaves are used in the South-East to hasten parturition and to expel the placenta after delivery. For infertility treatment, some women use a tablespoon of dried stem and bark of newbouldia with ginger (all in powdered form) to make tea. Others simply boil the leaves and take the water. The tree, especially the bark, is widely used in traditional medicine in Africa. The bark is analgesic and stomachic. A decoction is used in the treatment of coughs, diarrhoea and dysentery, while it is also given to children to treat epilepsy and convulsions. A decoction of the bark, combined with chillies is used in the treatment of chest pains. The bark is given in the form of an enema as a treatment for constipation and piles. One or two sniffs of a snuff made of the sun-dried bark ground up and combined with palm salt and the fruits of Piper guineense are taken in the treatment of headache, sinusitis, head-colds, etc. It is said to dispel the most obstinate migraine. Applied externally, the bark is said to cure a range of skin conditions including septic wounds, abscesses and ulcers and is also used to treat snake-bite. Pulped up to a paste, it is applied to rheumatic joints, especially painful arthritis in the knee. In some cases, a plaster is applied after massage. A decoction of the leaves is used to treat ophthalmia, conjunctivitis. The leaves are cooked in palm-oil soup and taken by pregnant women to effect easy delivery and after parturition, to promote a rich milk supply. A decoction of the leaves combined with those of psidium guajava (guava leaves) is taken in the treatment of diarrhoea and dysentery. The chewed-up leaves are applied to the wound of a snake bite and then sucked to draw out the venom. A decoction of the pounded roots is used in the treatment of intestinal problems and syphilis. A macerate or decoction of the roots is taken by mouth as a vermifuge to rid the body of roundworm and is also used to treat hernia. Applied externally, it is used as a poultice to treat aching limbs. Root scrapings, combined with chilli are put into a carious tooth. In Sierra Leone, the dried bark and young twigs are pounded up with spices (Xylopia (Annonaceae), etc and are given in decoction or infusion for such complaints as uterine colic and dysmenorrhoea. The bark is used in Ghana as an enema for constipation and piles. The bark is also said to cure septic wounds. Analgesic properties are said to reside in the bark. In Gabon, bark heated in a little boiling water is patted on the head for headache. Bark pulped up to a paste is used in casamance (Senegal) on rheumatism, especially painful arthritis in the knee. In some cases, a plaster is applied after massage and in refactory cases where walking has become impossible, various parts of Trichilia prieuriana  are added to an aqeous infusion of N. laevis roots for internal and external use. The outer bark is decocted with chilis in Ghana and the liquor drunk for chest-pain. A decoction of stem and root barks was in the past used with some success in Sierra Leone for acute malaria with splenic enlargement by application of the crushed leaves with fruits of Xylopia aethiopica in poultice over the spleen, for dysentery and post-partum and other forms of passive bleeding. In Congo, the chest is rubbed with sap obtained by pounding the bark with leaves of Kalanchoe sp. for pulmonary infections. As a veterinary medicine, the bark is fed to horses in Senegal to improve their appetite. They are a familiar remedy for scrotal elephantiasis or for any form of orchitis, a decoction being drunk or the materials pounded up together and applied hot. They are also credited with aphrodisiac properties. The roots are used in Senegal and in Gambia against dysentery and for rheumatic swellings. In a study titled, “Uterine contractile effects of the aqueous and ethanol leaf extracts of Newbouldia Laevis (Bignoniaceae) in vitro,’’ by Bafor et al, the findings indicate that the aqueous and ethanol extracts of the leaves of N. laevis increase the frequency of spontaneous uterine contractions and directly stimulate contraction of the uterus. In another study titled, “Analgesic and Anti-Inflammatory Screening of Newbouldia laevis Flower in Rodents,’’ by Usman et al, it was  concluded that though relatively toxic, the plant extract possesses both anti-nociceptive and anti-inflammatory activity dose-dependently. These effects could therefore be a point for the use of the plant traditionally as a remedy for rheumatic and other pain types. In a study titled, “Anticonvulsant and Analgesic Properties of Leaf and Root Extracts of Newbouldia laevis,’’ by Agbafor et al, the conclusion is that the extracts may be useful in the management and treatment of nervous system related disorders such as convulsion, anxiety, pains, etc. Its antimalarial activity was studied in a study titled, “Antiplasmodial activity of the ethanol leaf extract of newbouldia laevis. The conclusion is that newbouldia laevis leaf is a good source of phytochemicals and also a potential source of potent antiplasplasmodial compounds that could be developed into drugs useful for the treatment of malaria. Funnily enough, the plant grows around. In fact, while I was preparing for this article, I was strolling one day and I saw one. I told the person who was with me the name. She screamed with excitement and said no wonder some people came to pluck some during a chieftaincy ceremony in a sawmill beside her shop. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com