Some air cargo handling companies have said proper training on cargo parking is very important in promoting efficiency at various airports. According to the companies, exporters who do not have the right knowledge of packaging their goods before presenting them reduce efficiency during the screening process at airports. The Chief Executive Officer, Mainstream Cargo Limited, Mr Seyi Adewale, who spoke to our correspondent, said “Continuous education of exporters in all categories and most especially farmers and their cargo agents on exportation of various farm produce and perishables as being practised by the Nigerian Export Promotion Council is important. “This improves cargo screening points at airports with at least one in the six geo-political zones. It increases the capacity of the National Agency for Food and Drug and Administration Control, and quarantines to quickly inspect and issue certificates for export items.” He explained that the government also has a role to play in the air cargo business by reducing duties, taxes and levies on raw materials needed by manufacturing companies to enhance local production and compete favourably with finished imported goods. According to him, the air cargo business is thriving in Nigeria, but there are in-country limitations on export such as concerns regarding the movement of farm, perishable and finished products to the airports, proper packaging and labeling of export items, temperature regulation and control at the export warehouses. Adewale said, “Cargo is thriving because of the travel restrictions placed by respective countries due to COVID-19 global pandemic. There are fewer or no restrictions on air cargo transport. “Trade, exchange of goods. Services farm produce including perishables, transportation of medical supplies and Personal Protective Equipment must continue unrestrained. “Significant portion of passenger travel luggage now find their way to cargo flights,” he said. The spokesperson for Skyway Aviation Handling Company Plc, Vanessa Uansohia, highlighted the need for proper packing of cargoes. “If the goods are brought in by a layman, they are accepted and properly packed before being taken to the airport,” she said. Uansohia said “Before you become a licensed agent – our customers in the export and import business, they go through training to own their licences. “We also have training for our staff before they are assigned to handle the dangerous, perishable and other goods that cannot be packed together. And they are done before the expiration of certificates.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com