•Elonu leads D’Tigress to Tokyo
D’Tigers coach, Mike Brown, has listed named eight NBA stars in his final 12-man roster for the 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan with Miami Heat trio Precious Achiuwa, Gabe Vincent and KZ Okpala set to make their debuts at the global sports showpiece. The Nigerians are billed to open their Olympics campaign against Australia at the Saitama Arena in Tokyo on July 25, with hopes of making it to the knockout stages after their impressive outings at their recent exhibition games in Las Vegas, where they beat No.1 ranked United States and fourth-ranked Argentina. Josh Okogie (Minnesota Timberwolves), Miye Oni (Utah Jazz), Jordan Nwora (Milwaukee Bucks), Caleb Agada (Hapoel Be’er Sheva), Obi Emegano (Fuenlbrada, Spain), Chimezie Metu (Sacramento Kings) and Ike Nwamu (Samara, Russia), are all in line to fight for a starting berth at the Games Others are centres Ekpe Udoh and Jahlil Okafor (Detroit Pistons). The players who failed to make the final roster are – Michael Gbinije (Nevėžis Kėdainiai); Stan Okoye (Herbalife Gran Canaria), Ike Ireogbu (Élan Chalon) and Chima Moneke. Nwora will join up with the team in Tokyo after his time with the Bucks, who are currently in the NBA Finals needing one win against the Phoenix Suns to be crowned 2020/21 NBA champions. D’tigers will face Australia, Germany and Italy in Group of the men’s Olympics basketball event. D’Tigress coach, Otis Hughley, in his 12-man roster for the Olympics kept faith with veteran captain Adaora Elonu, Aisha Balarabe, Elizabeth Balogun, Promise Amukamara, Atonye Nyingifa, Ezinne Kalu, Pallas Kunaiyi-Akpannah and Ify Ibekwe. Others are Oderah Chidom, Victoria Macaulay, Erica Ogwumike and Amy Okonkwo. D’Tigeress will open their Olympics account against the United States, who they lost 93-62 to in an exhibition game on Monday, on July 27, before squaring off against France and hosts, Japan. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com