The Southern Kaduna Peoples Union has raised the alarm that for the sixth day, gunmen suspected to be Fulani herdsmen have laid siege in Atyap communities in the Zango-Kataf Local Government Area, killing no fewer than 33 persons. The organisation also said 108 communities had been displaced in the southern part of Kaduna State. SOKAPU’s spokesperson, Mr Luka Binniyat said this in a statement titled, ‘The Ongoing Genocide in Southern Kaduna,’ on Tuesday. Binniyat said on Monday some bandits invaded Magamiya village also in the Zango-Kataf LGA. He added that the men invaded the compound of the paramount ruler of the Atyap community, Dr Dominic Yahaya, and many blocks of flats were razed. The statement reads in part, “For the sixth day running, armed men, identified as Fulani herdsmen by victims, lay siege to several communities in Atyap land, Zangon Kataf Local Government Area of Southern Kaduna and left  about 33 people dead in an ongoing genocide and land grabbing in which 108 Southern Kaduna communities have been displaced and taken over by them since 2019. “In the latest orgy of bloodshed, the invaders stormed Magamiya village, last night (Monday) around 11pm and started shooting. “The family compound of the traditional ruler of Atyap Chiefdom, Agwatyap of Atyap Chiefdom, Sir Dominic Yahaya, was attacked. Several blocks of flats and rooms that make up the family compound of five households were looted of valuables and foodstuffs which were carted into four waiting Hilux vans. “The houses were then set ablaze. A relation of the revered traditional ruler, Mr. Toma Tauna, 70, was killed by the assailants. “They went further to loot six more homes which they also burnt, leaving Mathew Pama, 62, dead in the same village. “After putting in about two hours of unchallenged murder, looting and arson, they armed herdsmen attempted to burnt down  St. Pious Catholic Church in the village, but help came from other villages and attackers retreated. “Magamiya is about three kilometres from Zangon Kataf semi-urban town where  combined troops of soldiers and other security men are camped with patrol vehicles and armoured tanks. “They same assailants returned and passed besides  Zango Kataf town and drove 5km west of the town and attacked three other villages from around 1.30am this morning (Tueday.) In the attacks, 156 homes in Matyei were all burnt.” It added, “The Catholic Church in Matei was burnt. The Catchiest, simply known as Catchiest Yau, and an infant, were killed in the attack. In all, eight persons were killed. “The armed Fulani herdsmen then went down to Abuyab Community about 500 metre away and burnt down ECWA Church, Abuyab, and the home of a former ECOMOG Commander, Maj. Gen. Shekari Billyok (retd) and 11 homes. Their attempt to attack Runji community, nearby was repelled by villagers who got reinforcement elsewhere. “Yesterday (Monday), before the night attacks occurred, the same armed herdsmen attacked the Atyap of Makarau and Kachechere Communities leaving 10 people confirmed dead, while 12 were houses burnt. “In a nutshell, 20 Atyap natives were killed by attackers (who all the villagers that saw them) identified as armed herdsmen between Monday afternoon and today, Tuesday, 13 July, 2021.” The state Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Mohammed Jalige, could not be reached as a call put to his telephone rang out. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com