The Taraba State Governor, Darius Ishaku, on Monday, called on herders and farmers in the state to close ranks and stop killing each other for the peace and economic prosperity of the people of the state. Ishaku made the call during the commencement of the distribution/sale of fertilisers and other agric inputs for the 2021/2022 farming season. He noted that agriculture was the main source of income for the people of the state and that the distribution of the inputs was to help boost yield and ensure food security and economic empowerment of the people. The governor stated, “I want to call on farmers and herders to close ranks and work closely with one another for a mutually beneficial relationship. “The synergy and understanding between herders and farmers will benefit the state.” The governor, who subsidised the NPK fertiliser to be sold at N6,500 per bag and Urea for N8,000, noted that his administration had procured 2,000 maize kits, 100 tonnes of sesame seeds, 12,000 metric tonnes of cassava and 100 metric tonnes of rice for free distribution to farmers. He directed that communities affected by the crisis in Lau, Wukari and Bali should be prioritised in the distribution of the inputs to facilitate their recovery. Earlier, the Commissioner for Agriculture and Natural Resources, Dr David Ishaya, thanked the governor for the attention he had given to farmers and agricultural development in the state. Ishaya said the timely procurement and distribution of improved seeds and other agric inputs for farmers would boost food security and ensure better income for farmers. Our correspondent reports that items distributed at the event included improved Sesame seeds, soya bean, rice Faro 44, maize and cassava stems, among others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com