The Imo State Police Command has arrested six suspects in connection with the abduction of a woman, Cornelia Oluebube. A spokesperson for the police in the state, Mike Abattam, who paraded the suspects on Tuesday, said the operation led the tactical unit of the command to Delta State, where the victim was rescued. Abattam said the arrest of the suspects and the rescue of the victim were parts of the commitment of the command to making the state safe. He said, “On July 3, 2021, around 4.30am, one Cornelia Oluebube, of Amakohia in the Owerri North Local Government Area of Imo State, was kidnapped by unknown gunmen and taken to an unknown destination. The Imo State command’s tactical teams, on receipt of the report, swung into action. “Technical intelligence led to the arrest of three suspects: Terry Mez, 31; Willine Ebefal, 21; and Obasanjo Kimakia, 20. “On interrogation, the three suspects volunteered useful information that took the ever active Imo command’s tactical teams to Delta State on July 19, 2021, around 11.30am, for the rescue of the kidnapped victim. “After diligent gathering of intelligence and planning, we stormed the hideout of the kidnappers in Tebegbe Water Side in Delta State, and arrested Augustine Irishaye, 21; Jenifer, 16; and Eyemgblausi, 17. “The victim, Cornelia Oluebube, who was kidnapped in Owerri, was rescued unhurt. While the tactical teams were escorting the suspects out of their hideout, Terry Mez took to his heels and was shot in the leg to prevent him from escaping from lawful custody. “On arrival back to the command, the escaping suspect was taken to the Nigeria Police Hospital, Amakohia, Owerri, while the victim was formally reunited with her parents by the Commissioner of Police.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com