Cable television music and lifestyle channel, TRACE, has launched an empowerment programme called, TRACE Troops, to empower 60 African youths yearly. The Chief Executive Officer of TRACE, Olivier Laouchez, noted that it was part of the company’s corporate social responsibility initiative targeted at assisting youths across Africa. He also stated that the first batch of 15 beneficiaries would be hired for a period of three months. According to Laouchez, the beneficiaries will be required to develop a unique project of their choice in addition to their curriculum vitae while TRACE will empower them with the necessary resources, alongside guidance on media and entertainment. On his part, the Managing Director of TRACE, Sam Onyemelukwe, described the project as an avenue to equip the younger generation, while also exposing them to fun activities. He said, “The initiative was conceived to educate and empower 60 Nigerian and Ghanaian youths within a year; inspire and engage the younger generation of bright minds by starting them on a journey to becoming industry leaders of tomorrow. “The programme is to share and cheer, and to give them a chance to share their perspectives on issues affecting their generation and equally have fun in the process.” The debut phase of the campaign, which is scheduled to run from July 22 to October 21, 2021, is targeted at male and female Nigerians and Ghanaians between the ages of 16-28, who are passionate about Afro-urban culture and change. In the same vein, Onyemelukwe noted that to further expand the frontiers of TRACE’s CSR initiatives, another programme tagged TRACE Academia, which is similar to TRACE Troops in purpose and target audience, had been launched. According to him, it would curb the menace of youth unemployment in Africa. He said, “We aim to impact 25 million young people by 2025, by disrupting traditional, boring e-learning and developing partnership towards employability. Our target audience is people who need to be trained for the jobs of today and tomorrow— youths who need to acquire skills that lead to entrepreneurship and employability, and corporate employees who need to be skilled, re-skilled or up-skilled.”