The Chinese Ambassador to Nigeria, Mr Cui Jianchun, has asked a local automobile assembly firm, GAC Motors, to empower Nigerian youths by sending them to China to acquire mechatronic skills. The envoy explained that the Chinese embassy was already holding talks with the Federal Government to develop and grow the local automobile industry. Speaking during the handover of SUVs purchased by the embassy from GAC Motors in Abuja on Friday, Jianchun commended the firm’s partnership with Nigeria which he said would further boost industrialisation, create jobs for youths and promote economic growth in the country. He said that the embassy purchased the fleet from GAC Motors as a way of supporting the company, noting that the firm had been assembling vehicles in Nigeria for the past five years. Jianchu stated, “We have been discussing how we can support not only GAC Motors but other industries and how Nigeria and China will work together to develop and grow industries, especially the automobile sector. “If GAC Motors can work with Nigeria, I believe there is hope to build high-quality products in the future. I strongly encourage Nigerian businessmen to work with Chinese companies.” The envoy also expressed optimism that if the partnership endured within the next five to 10 years, more industries would spring up. “GAC is a leading company in China and I believe they should work together with Nigerian people and I hope that GAC will send more Nigerians to China to acquire skills,” he noted. General Manager Commercial, GAC Motors, Mr Jubril Arogundade, said the partnership was a way of strengthening relations with the diplomatic community, adding that the company had also reached out to other embassies in Nigeria in a bid to deepen bilateral, economic and trade relations with them. He described GAC Motors as the future of Nigeria’s industrialisation and economic growth, saying that the company would be setting up its plant within the next 18 months. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com