FULL TEXT Since the introduction of mobile phones in Nigeria, many people believe that using phones at a filling station can cause explosions. Different messages are churned out every time about the danger of using phones at filling stations and reasons why phones should not be used in the kitchen. A number of news reports had noted cases where use of phones while using the generator had caused a fire explosion. Although there have been no reported cases of mobile phones causing explosions at gas stations in Nigeria, there have been some cases in foreign countries. A news report  read, “Tragedy struck in Agege area of Lagos State, South-West Nigeria when a staff of Fidelity Bank PLC was burnt to death while trying to switch on a generating set which caught fire when a call came in his GSM handset. “We gathered that the victim, Mr. David Adeogun, got married not too long ago and had a new baby. “Investigations revealed that Adeogun, a staff of the Ikosi, Ketu branch of the bank got home after work and wanted to switch on the generating set with the torchlight on his phone when the phone rang, The generating set was said to have exploded immediately when the phone rang.’’ There have also been multiple reports, especially YouTube videos that show that mobile phones cause explosions. Verification A visit to some petrol stations shows that many of them still express a certain level of caution to prevent fire outbreak or explosion. Some of the safety rules at the petrol stations reads; ‘No smoking, stop your machine, switch off your phone amongst many others.’ What you need to know about mobile phones and fuel A mobile phone is a wireless handheld device that allows users to make and receive calls. While the earliest generation of mobile phones could only make and receive calls, today’s mobile phones do a lot more, accommodating web browsers, games, cameras, video players and navigational systems. Also, while mobile phones used to be mainly known as “cell phones” or cellular phones, today’s mobile phones are more commonly called “smartphones” because of all of the extra voice and data services that they offer. According to fossbytes.com, there are a number of smartphones today. It’s all a game of different designs, features, cameras, display quality, performance, battery life and numerous other things that consumers yearn for. However, what goes on beneath these mobile computing machines is equally important because if you’re knowledgeable in this aspect, you can come close to making a less excruciating purchasing decision. Components of mobile phones Major components of a mobile phone include; A circuit board containing the brains of the phone An antenna A liquid crystal display A keyboard A microphone A speaker A battery Petroleum, or crude oil according to petroleum.co.uk, as it is now usually referred to when raw, contains several chemical compounds, the most prolific being the hydrocarbons themselves which give the petroleum composition its combustible nature. Petroleum composition Although the composition of petroleum will contain many trace elements the key compounds are carbon (93% – 97%), hydrogen (10% – 14%), nitrogen (0.1% – 2%), oxygen (01.% – 1.5%) and sulphur (0.5% – 6%) with a few trace metals making up a small percentage of the petroleum composition. The actual overall properties of each different petroleum source are defined by the percentage of the four main hydrocarbons found within petroleum as part of the petroleum composition. The percentages for these hydrocarbons can vary greatly, giving the crude oil a quite distinct compound personality depending upon geographic region. These hydrocarbons are typically present in petroleum at the following percentages: paraffins (15% – 60%), naphthenes (30% – 60%), aromatics (3% to 30%), with asphaltics making up the remainder. Over the years, there have been controversies around whether mobile use causes explosions at petrol stations or while pouring fuel in a generator. Many messages have gone viral on various social media platforms suggesting why using phones near petrol can trigger explosions. However, a quick check by Sunday PUNCH revealed that there was no link between phone use and fire when one is near a fuel or petrol station. Using phone near fuel can’t cause fire–Experts In a phone interview with Sunday PUNCH, a professor of Communication Engineering, Francis Idachabba, faulted the claim that using phones at petrol stations could cause explosions. He said, “It’s not likely that a fire would happen while using the phone at a filling station. An explosion won’t happen unless there is a contact between the fuel and fire” Debunking the belief that when a phone gets hot it can ignite a fire, the professor said, “The manufacturers have specifications. For mobile phones to generate so much power to the extent that it would cause fire in a petrol station is a claim that is unfounded. “The technology for phones and fuel are different. They are on separate arcs. Nobody has shown any proof that using a mobile phone at a filling station can cause it. Technically too from the place I am seeing it, the relationships are very far apart.” Idachaba stated that if phones could exhibit such a level of danger, the manufacturers wouldn’t have allowed it in the marketplace. He stated, “Most of these devices are ensured not to cause these things. If phones have the capacity to cause explosions like that, I am sure the use of the phone will be limited and such precautions would have been given by the manufacturers. These are presumptions that have not been validated to the best of my knowledge.” On a mobile phone triggering an explosion while using the generator, the lecturer said that it was important to observe the condition in which the blast occurred. Idachaba stated, “It is important to note the condition which the generator was in rather than just generalising. Was the generator on while pouring the fuel in it? This is because if the generator is on it will be hot and petrol and heat are not friendly. That is why people are usually told not to switch on the engine while topping it up. “For the generator, it should be switched off and allowed to cool off before fuel is poured inside because the exhaust is usually hot. But to suggest that using a phone as a torchlight while pouring fuel in a generator will cause a fire is unlikely.” Idachabba added that for a phone not in use to generate heat that could cause an explosion was almost impossible just as it was unlikely to cause such when in use. He stated, “When you are holding your phone and not making a call, it does nothing. What happens while using your phone is what we call a status update. The updates are sent from the phone to the nearest GPS intermediately. “To say that a phone that is not in use will cause a fire is a little far-fetched. It should not. This is engineering but except the conditions that can make room for such.But I have not seen and there is no empirical fact to show that using a phone torchlight while pouring fuel in a generator will cause fire. I haven’t seen that before. It is not straightforward like that but there are chances that it can happen under certain conditions.” Similarly, an oil and gas expert, Bala Zakka, identified fuel components and process of distillation while analysing the capability of phones to cause fire at petrol stations. He said, “When we talk about crude oil generally, we are talking about fossil fuels. During distillation for refining, they come out based on their specific gravity or weight. And when these products start coming out based on their weight or gravity, the lighter the product, the more flammable it becomes. “In other words, gas is lighter than petrol, petrol is lighter than diesel and kerosene is lighter than bitumen. The lighter the products, the more inflammable or dangerous it would be when it comes close to a source of fire. “That is why when you see a case of gas tanker fire it is more deadly than that of petrol and petrol is more dangerous than diesel and kerosene. When you talk about these petroleum products, the only thing that will generate friction between them is friction that would generate light not electricity. “Electricity is different from the kind of light that will generate flame. It is different from a friction that generates heat that would produce a flame. There is no link between using a phone and igniting fire at a fuel station.” The petroleum expert said further that there was a slim chance for a spark from the electricity to generate fire. Zakka added, “However, a spark from a phone as a result of electrical charges can cause flame and when you have a source of gas, petrol or other products nearby depending on how flammable they are, then you can have an explosion. Fuel and phones are two different products. Phones can’t cause fires. “Phones function based on what we know as electrical charges. The electrical charges don’t generate normal flames but when there is a spark, like when you put two batteries together and it produces a spark, then we can have a flame. “A car battery is a good example. A car battery does not cause fire. It powers a car to move but when you now put the heads of a battery together, it would generate a spark. If there is no source of generating a spark, then a phone can never generate a spark that would cause fire. “What is being done at filling stations is what I will call prevention is better and cheaper than cure.  It is better to prevent it than look for medicine to cure it after the explosion.” Conclusion: Using phones near petrol and other petroleum products does not cause fire as opposed to the general belief. But there is a likelihood if there is an electrical spark. The researcher produced this fact-check per the Dubawa 2021 Kwame KariKari Fellowship partnership with The PUNCH to facilitate the ethos of “truth” in journalism and enhance media literacy in the country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com