The Governor Mai Mala Buni-led Caretaker/Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressives Congress has begun moves to get the buy-in of state chairmen for its plan to ensure the next set of party leaders emerge by consensus. The party leadership held a closed-door meeting with the chairmen of the 36 state chapters of the party at the APC National Secretariat in Abuja on Friday. Although details of the meeting were sketchy as of the time of filing this report, it was gathered that the national caretaker committee harped on the need for the party leaders to work on the modalities that would build consensus to reduce rancour. A source privy to the meeting said, “It was essentially a meeting of like minds. We reviewed our successes and challenges and reached a consensus on the need to reduce actions that would cause friction. “The party was built on a consensus, and we were encouraged to build on that as we prepared for congresses leading to the national convention. This is the way to go. There were also complaints about the party’s reward system which has been a source of concern since we came to power in 2015. That also is being addressed.” Speaking during the meeting, the Chairman of the Borno State chapter of the party, Ali Dalori, who spoke on behalf of his colleagues, expressed their displeasure with what he described as the “use-and-dump” attitude of the party. “The reason I said this publicly is that we are not happy with some of our governors. They used the chairmen and dumped them,” he said. Earlier, in his address of welcome, the party’s National Secretary, Senator John Akpanudoedehe, who stood in for Buni, said, “As you are aware, the congresses of our party will commence soon. It became pertinent that we brief you on the details of the exercise and what is expected of you.” Akpanudoedehe promised that the party would look into the state chairmen’s grievances. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com