• Lawyer asks police to produce bullet, killer cop Jumoke Oyeleke, the salesgirl who was allegedly killed by a stray bullet during the Yoruba Nation rally in Lagos on July 3, died from a missile injury. This was revealed by the report of an autopsy conducted on the remains of the 25-year-old on Monday. The report contradicted the claim by the Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi, that Jumoke was abandoned after she was stabbed. The autopsy report, which was obtained by PUNCH Metro, was signed by one Dr S.S. Soyomi of the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Ikeja. It attributed her death to “haemopericardium, disruption of the heart and lungs and missile injury to the chest.” Agitators for the Yoruba Nation gathered at the Gani Fawehinmi Park at Ojota amid the presence of armed policemen and soldiers on July 3, 2021. Jumoke, who displayed soft drinks at her boss’ shop in a compound close to the rally ground, was killed when security men chased agitators into the premises. Her family and witnesses said she was hit when the police opened fire on the protesters. Reacting to the autopsy report, a lawyer with the Femi Falana Chambers, Taiwo Olawale, urged the police to identify the officer that shot the victim. He also urged the state government to compensate the family. Olawale said, “The autopsy result implied that she was shot; the third cause of her death was a missile, which means bullet. If you look at the protest that day, nobody shot except the security agencies, so the police should find out whoever shot that lady; whoever did that must face the punishment. The person must be brought out and recommended for prosecution. “During the autopsy, the bullet was not found in her body and the police had been the one in possession of her corpse since the day of the incident. So, we want them to also produce the bullet so we can ascertain whose bullet it is. They should tell us where the bullet is. “We also want the government to compensate the family; the deceased was the first child of the family and the breadwinner, and it was the work she was using to feed her mum and three siblings she left behind, so we want the government to compensate the family.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com