A collaborative initiative targeted at improving the economies of Nigeria’s subnational governments has delivered surprising results. An eye-opener, the survey of the business environment in the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory conducted by the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council was based on business-friendly characteristics and policies. It gave the highest scores to three states in the North. This relegates the supposed economic juggernauts and some of the oil-bearing states to the bottom. The November 2020 to January 2021 survey is a step in the right direction, as it can engender a competitive spirit among the states and encourage them to improve in weak areas. Evaluated on Infrastructure and Security; Transparency and Accessibility to Information; Regulatory Environment; and Skills Workforce Readiness, Gombe, Sokoto, and Jigawa emerged tops in the survey undertaken by an accounting firm, KPMG, with key stakeholders headed by the office of Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo. Out of a score of 10, the bottom three states are Delta (4.32), Taraba (3.91) and Zamfara (3.54). Upfront, the PEBEC report bursts some myths. Gombe (7.69) in the North-East, Sokoto (6.88) and Jigawa (6.79) both in the North-West, have the most favourable business environments in Nigeria. This is startling, and out of tune with the pre-survey impressions. These are states where the Islamist insurgency and violent banditry have disrupted social life and business. A staggering new report by the United Nations Development Programme says that the Boko Haram Islamist insurgency in the North-East has claimed nearly 350,000 lives since it began in 2009 and up to December 2020. Bandits have seized the North-West states by the jugular, kidnapping, maiming, and killing without control, but in security, primary healthcare, and electricity, Borno, the epicentre of the Islamist uprising, scored 7.43, 7.90 and 5.89, respectively. All the other states and the FCT are in between the top performers and the laggards. Among the oil-rich states in the South, only Akwa Ibom finished in the top five, tying with Bauchi in fourth position. Kebbi finished sixth with an overall score of 6.49. Katsina, Kaduna and Bayelsa turned in strong performances. “The report captures the different business environment realities across the country, backed up by success stories of SMEs from all regions, to encourage peer learning and review, healthy competition and guide investors,” PEBEC said. “It is expected that the report of the survey will serve as an information resource document for businesses and investors at home and abroad.” For an economy rooted in the sharing of oil income, these are well-intentioned goals. Instructively, the lore that Lagos is the champion in everything got punctured. Like most of the other South-West states, it performed weakly. It recorded 5.28, finishing 20th. This calls for a reawakening. Lagos contributes 25 per cent to the national GDP; its GDP was $79.25 billion in 2018, the seventh-largest in Africa or equivalent to the GDP of some 24 African countries combined. Of the N1.31 trillion combined internally generated revenue by the 36 states in 2020, Lagos earned N418.99 billion. It can do more if priority attention is paid to business-friendly policies. And this is part of the problem. Although it is home to 60 per cent of industry/commerce in Nigeria and is credited with a population of 21 million, its infrastructure is grossly inadequate. The Apapa seaports are in dire straits. Generally, commuting is hellish with traffic bottlenecks hampering movements in most areas. In the PEBEC survey, the state fared badly in all these indices. In the infrastructure category, it made 2.47 in electricity. This is hardly surprising. With a heavy burden of industry, commercial and residential needs, its power demand is between 5,000 and 10,000 megawatts. From the national grid, it receives 750MW! This is acutely insufficient. Lagos recorded another 2.47 in transport. There are motorcycles and tricycles everywhere, creating a sense of bedlam amid the choking gridlock. It is no better in security, with a score of 3.12. These days, safety is scarce. Along with street gangs who torment neighbourhoods, traffic robbery has gained notoriety. Overall, the report is an indictment of the states. The excuse that the federal system centralises everything cannot explain the decay, lack of focus, bogus government, and the rabid dependence on the sharing culture plaguing the subnational governments. As this newspaper has repeatedly stated, states ought to regard themselves as competitive autonomous economic units running on best global practices. There is hope, but only if states can re-ignite themselves and take economic issues more seriously. All states are endowed in agriculture, but Nigeria is a heavy importer of food like rice, oils, frozen poultry, and fruits. To amend this, states should revive agriculture, entrenching modern practices. With agriculture threatened by insecurity, states should devise practical security plans to rid themselves of the violent breaches. Without rural roads being in good condition, wastage will destabilise the plans to revive agriculture. Instead of building white elephants like airports and spending high on governance costs, states should concentrate on rural infrastructure. Starting a business, says US Today, can be very challenging. “According to the US Small Business Administration, about half of all new businesses fail within their first five years. Countless factors can undermine a company’s chances for success and ultimately doom it. While most of these factors – such as those related to product quality, pricing, and planning – can be blamed on poor management, a business’s chances for success can also depend on outside factors,” it adds. The states should, therefore, do their best towards improving the ease of doing business. According to the Organised Private Sector, multiple taxes, charges are killing states’ economies. This is glaring. It should be avoided at all costs to promote business. Small and Medium Enterprises contribute 47.8 per cent to national GDP and a high percentage of employment. Therefore, states should empower and encourage their sustainability. Their major challenge remains electricity. States should construct independent power plants in captive areas to stimulate SMEs. Like Ondo, states should establish industrial parks to attract domestic and international investors. In the long term, they should boost their social services, including qualitative healthcare and sound education. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com