The Managing Director, CASIO, Middle East, Mr Takashi Seimiya, has said teaching mathematics with real-life experiences will help learners develop interest and understand the subject better. Seimiya in an interview with The PUNCH, said students tend to find mathematics subject difficult and some were simply affected by the myth that it was a challenging and hard subject to comprehend. “We realised several ways to improve students’ mathematics ability. Students tend to find mathematics difficult and some are affected by the myth that it is a challenging and hard subject to comprehend. Additionally, old fashion way of teaching mathematics is not related to real-life examples, so, students find it complicated. Nowadays mathematics is from real-life examples and we aim to make it more interesting and facilitate its learning. “Some other students dislike mathematics because they think it is boring. They don’t get excited about numbers and formulas the way they get excited about other subjects that are easier to personally connect to,” Seimiya said. He suggested that educational materials and tools would assist students to develop an interest in mathematics if used appropriately. “The good news is that with the modern mathematics teaching techniques such as gamification, innovation, using simulation, design thinking, stream education, and science engineering, students can have success in mathematics class with the right effort, attitude, and behavior, regardless of a natural affinity or being good in the subject or not. “Also some techniques that could boost the learning of mathematics learning is dealing with each student separately through assessing skills, and grouping based on their level in mathematics. “Our education business division and specifically ‘GAKUHAN’ aim to facilitate mathematics learning and we do extend our support to teachers by helping in educational material. We supply and customise educational resources, by emphasising conceptual mathematics understanding over procedures and provide authentic problems and scenarios that stimulate students’ drive to engage with mathematics,” Seimiya said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com