The British Prime Minister, Boris Johnson, is among the few British Prime Ministers that I like. Others are the late Margaret Thatcher whose hairstyle I liked, and Gordon Brown whose personality I like. As for Johnson, he has the carriage of the every-day-person who happens to be a PM. I like his simplicity; it’s there in the manner he jogs around London, as well as New York at the time he was the Secretary for Foreign Affairs. For being his natural self, he’s infallible to me. However, he took a step lately that I have to interrogate. I do this when anyone in the public space takes steps that indicate they leave out some points they should have considered. There was that occasion when a British cricketer was suspended from all international matches by cricket’s ruling body pending an investigation into racist and sexist Twitter messages he tweeted between 2012 and 2013. A member of Johnson’s cabinet said cricket’s ruling body went “over the top” by suspending the cricketer. Johnson supported this comment. It means there must have been a private discussion between both men on the matter. I don’t think cabinet members, especially the PM, should have interfered in this appropriate decision taken by cricket’s ruling body. This matter calls attention to the issue of racism that our world battles with. But it’s not only racism; there’re tribalism and religious intolerance as well. It’s trending in Nigeria, and the incident in the UK reminds me of it.  These things have always been there. They’re there in spite of all the rules made in politics and sports to curtail them. While rules are okay, I wonder whether they are all we need to combat racism or tribalism that I regard as a disease in the heart. Standing firmly together to resist it is needed too, but the leader of a nation split that united front that time. Personally, when a person exhibits racism or tribalism, I give up on them. To me, it’s incurable cancer. How it gets into a person’s heart, and how it thrives there such that it manifests as it does in the tweets of this cricketer, as well as many Nigerians who make hateful comments about people of other tribes is something I can’t fathom. Let’s note it, it’s not because of race or tribe that people who’re racist or tribalistic hate, they hate because that’s how their hearts are configured, permanently skewed to hate fellow human beings. Such disease cannot be cured by rules. Once hatred dwells in a heart it never goes, a reason I don’t think an apology from the cricketer means he’s a changed person. He apologises only to save his career. Johnson didn’t reckon with this and it was the reason he interfered as he did. He also doesn’t realise the enormity of what we’re dealing with here.  The manner he and other public figures in the UK quickly jumped in to support this cricketer shows to me that they don’t understand what it means for a human being to look at others and address them as though they’re no human beings. Did Johnson take into consideration the feelings of the people who were on the receiving end of this cricketer’s many racist comments? People like this cricketer have a poisoned heart and they constitute danger to mankind, if what happened in Nazi Germany still means anything to us. I was still a teenager when I read many of the novels and non-fiction works that catalogued those atrocities which the Nazis committed against the Jews before and during the World War II. I watched several films too and noted the gripping details of what the Nazis did. It was obvious they didn’t see fellow humans as humans like themselves. I imagine it was because their hearts were darkened and diseased. Nonetheless, I didn’t have a clear idea of what led the Nazis to this until I began to hear some Nigerians express hatred for their fellow human beings. Mostly, this is targeted at people across tribes; their own tribe is perfect, it’s the other tribe that is devil-incarnate. It’s the manifestation of a bad heart. When I saw what this led to in Rwanda, it became one reason I continuously opposed any Nigerian who expressed hatred for members of any tribe. But some of the things I’ve seen in Nigeria’s case indicate to me that tribe has little to do with the hatred that people harbour. Their hearts are hatred personified in the first place and it must manifest somehow, tribe or no tribe. Such people can’t be different from the British cricketer. We know that having hatred for a fellow human being, or seeing them as inferior, is informed by different reasons. To me though, those reasons are not to blame. It’s the person who accepts those reasons and uses them as bases for harbouring hatred that has issues.  I state this because as a youngster, I came across people and issues that should make me hate across families and tribes. But I chose not to. I thought it was load, and I didn’t want to carry loads. When people try to influence me with the poison they harbour in their hearts for others, I listen and thereafter dismiss what they say. I listen to tales people tell about peoples and tribes and race at two levels. One, I pick tales for use in my stories, and my award-winning   plays. Two, I take note of the state of the heart of the tale-bearer with regard to fellow human beings. Once a person expresses hatred for people across tribe and religion, I form distinct opinion about them, and I become wary of them. But there’s one other thing that makes me wary of people who hate others. When a person hates a fellow human, says sarcastic things about others and one encourages them, the day they don’t have those other persons to target anymore, they will turn to the one who has been encouraging them. I wasn’t yet 16 years old when I came to this realisation; this has made me to not support people when they gang up in hatred against others. I’m fully persuaded that people don’t hate others just because they belong to other tribes or races, they hate because they have a heart that’s configured to hate in the first place, and they will hate their own siblings and friends as well as do them harm if it comes to it. Such people would hate at the slightest excuse. The day they don’t have an outsider, that is people of other tribes or race to hate and attack, they’ll do the same thing to those who have encouraged them. There’s no doubt that we all have reasons to have our angst about fellow human beings. Nonetheless, the moment a person cannot end the expression of their angst about fellow human beings with the healthy view that everyone has their faults, and that we’ll step on each other’s toes from time to time, such a person has given me enough reasons to be wary of them. When a person expresses hatred for others across tribe or race to the extent the British cricketer did and they get sanctioned, they should be left to carry the very weight of that burden to serve as lessons to others. Instead, Prime Minister Johnson came to this fellow’s defence. With this action, I doubt Johnson realises the enormity of what is involved here. That the said cricketer apologised, or that what he did happened years ago can’t be the issue. Hatred for fellow humans cost the world millions of innocent lives in Nazi Germany. The same can repeat itself if we don’t allow people who have hearts like those of the Nazis to face the consequences of their action. Suspension is all that cricket’s ruling body has done. What would Johnson have done if the cricketer was permanently banned? He should have allowed the body do its job without this interference. Or, is Johnson indicating to us that people can harbour this racist or anti-fellow human being disease in their hearts, but once they become sport stars, it shouldn’t matter anymore? Johnson got this one wrong and he shouldn’t be allowed to feel otherwise. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com