The founder and director of Disability and Sickle Cell Organisation of Nigeria, Mr Tayo Faloye, decided to hold a writing competition to encourage people living with sickle cell to tell their personal stories.  One of the articles received was by Igbonwelundu Onyeka Cosmas.  I hope you enjoy his personal account of living with sickle cell: My National Youth Service Corps days were remarkably characterised by activities which I can best describe now as memories. Foremost among these memories was my encounter with a sickle cell warrior; like myself. He was full of life and vigour, fun to be with and had a unique personality. We all know him as Mega, which he was fondly called. As a result of my curiosity, I found out it was his nickname. The only pointer to his health condition was the fact that he limped as a result of a sickle cell complication known medically as ‘Avascular Necrosis.’ At the time, he was getting ready to go for hip replacement surgery. I was the Community Development Service president of my group; Sustainable Development Goals CDS group and as such noticed his regular excuses due to locomotive difficulty, consequently I was determined to get closer to him. This decision enabled me to realise that Mega was a brother by virtue of being a fellow warrior.  But he was not quick to believe my sickle cell warrior story as I did not look like what I have been through due to my strength and herculean responsibility of piloting the affairs of over 90 corps members without being found wanting in my obligation. We became brothers ever since 2016 when we concluded our youth service. Amazingly Mega has now successfully undergone hip replacement surgery, married the love of his life and bore a son. I call it his 2021 blessing. The year 2019 was quite remarkable for me because I made up my mind to join the sickle cell advocacy group known as the Association of People Living with Sickle cell Disorder for the purpose of public sensitisation and awareness creation, having seen and witnessed the ignorance and stigmatisation in society towards people living with sickle cell. As I have really had my fair share of the pain, agony and frustration that come with leading a sickle life; I wanted to belong to a family that understood the life of failing and rising health; the life where the hospital was a home away from home; the life where we occasionally think of giving up; the life where we stay awake from dusk-to-dawn due to excruciating pain and severe crises; the life when one deliberately sacrifices ones academics for a remarkable length of time, to recuperate from failing health; the life where one sees oneself as a victim of circumstances; the life where you occasionally blame your parents for the choices they made in the past.  The Association of People Living with Sickle Cell in Anambra State was nearby to me, hence I signed up. Joining the association was a bold decision I was glad I made, since I was able to mingle with several other sickle cell warriors. We shared ideas for healthy living, went for sensitisation campaigns and outreaches, and as well actively engaged the government through its legislative arm.  I found out in the course of our outreaches that most parents, especially the middle and upper class, are seldom proud of their sickle cell child/ward they brought into the world. This is the case of a lady I saw. She was a 33-year-old master’s student in one of the universities in the East. She was full of hope, dreams and aspirations to conquer the hereditary disorder she chose not to inherit, but inherited regardless. Her health at some point was fairly stable, undaunted, and to a commendable extent didn’t falter. Since sickle cell affects us all in different magnitudes. Her health gradually started deteriorating from leg ulcer to traces of protein in the urine, to spleen enlargement leading to its removal. The hallmark of her failing health was the point of incessant blood transfusion due to the inability of the born narrow to produce sufficient viable blood, medically termed ‘Aplastic anemia.’ Protein in urine is a medical emergency and should be so treated otherwise kidney failure is imminent, if not inevitable. This was the point she got to, and I realised that only a miracle could save her life. Her life and times will always re-echo the strength and determination inter-alia sickle cell warriors are known for. When she was lowered down six feet beneath the earth, her warrior community and sympathisers stood meters away and sobbed helplessly as they could do little or nothing. Through the advocacy group, we were able to reach out to universities, churches, radio and television stations to enlighten the populace on genotype education. I was particularly happy that with the massive campaigns and outreaches we indulged in over the years, we were able to influence the government through the state house of assembly to enact laws that will protect persons living with sickle cell disorder in the state, against all forms of stigmatisation and deprivation.  These campaigns also captured a compulsory testing before marriage that any culprit caught marrying without genotype certificate in Anambra State risks some years behind bars. Conclusively, I am grateful that despite the horror, pain, frustration and hospitalisations, I still stand tall and strong with much academic achievement to my feather. I successfully acquired B.Sc, M.Sc degrees and I look forward to enrolling for a PhD programme as soon as my finances improves. I hope to use my blood and genetic disability to my favour in the labour market since I can seek for concessional employment on health grounds in an institution of higher learning.  If I can do it, you too can. If you would like to get in touch with me about this article or about Sickle cell, pls do so: t.dehinde@yahoo.com and do visit my blog: www.howtolivewithsicklecell.co.uk My book on sickle cell: How to Live with Sickle Cell is available for purchase on OkadaBooks and Amazon. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com