The way Sound Sultan’s family announced his death over the weekend showed that they were truly educated and exposed and had some regard for his fans and the public, given his celebrity status. Dr Kayode Fasasi, on behalf of the Fasasi family, issued a statement that read as follows: “It is with heavy hearts that we announce the passing of our multitalented veteran singer, rapper, songwriter Olanrewaju Fasasi aka Sound Sultan. “He passed away at the age of 44 following a hard-fought battle with Angioimmunoblastic T-Cell Lymphoma. “He is survived by his wife, three children and his siblings. “We, his family, will appreciate the utmost privacy as we come to grips with this tragic loss.” The website www.rarediseases.org has this general introduction about Angioimmunoblastic T-Cell Lymphoma: “Angioimmunoblastic T-Cell Lymphoma (AITL) is a rare form of non-Hodgkin lymphoma, which is a group of related malignancies (cancers) that affect the lymphatic system (lymphomas). Lymphomas are cancer of white blood cells (lymphocytes) and can be divided depending on the type of cells, B-lymphocytes (B-cells) or T-lymphocytes (T-cells), AITL is a T-cell lymphoma. The lymphatic system functions as part of the immune system and helps to protect the body against infection and disease. It consists of a network of tubular channels (lymph vessels) that drain a thin watery fluid known as lymph from different areas of the body into the bloodstream. Sound Sultan was not a political office holder. Therefore, his family did not owe the public any disclosure of the cause of his death, especially since it involved cancer – a disease many Nigerians still attach a stigma to and don’t want to be associated with. However, they understood that the public would like to know the cause of death of a 44-year-old man. People don’t just die without a cause. In the case of political leaders, it is important that the family be transparent. It is in bad taste and disrespectful when a public figure is ill or dies and the public are kept in the dark about the illness. The political office holder is an employee of the public. It shows transparency when the health issues of a political office holder are made public. Such transparency is a carry-over from the transparency in governance too. If political leaders are not transparent about their health, there is no guarantee that they will be transparent about their financial transactions. Secrecy is usually a sign that something is wrong. Fraud is usually committed in secret and sustained in secret. When the public knows the full details of a public office holder’s health status, it will be easy for them to decide if the person is fit to continue in office or told to resign. The key reason many Nigerians hide the name of their illness or cause of death of their loved one is the cave mentality that still pervades Nigeria that there are some diseases categorised as “Egyptian diseases.” These are illnesses which are seen as “bad” (as if there are good illnesses). These illnesses or diseases come with some stigma. Many believe that they are punishment for some wrongs done by the sufferer or even one of the forebears – some sort of karma at work. In the distant past, the gods would need to be appeased and the family purified if someone had such a disease. Sadly, such ancient mentality has been transferred seamlessly into this modern age of science. It has been difficult for many to believe that illnesses don’t come to people because they committed any crime. Cancer, heart failure, stroke, COVID-19, diabetes, asthma, Alzheimer’s disease, epilepsy, autism, etc, are diseases just as malaria, typhoid fever, tonsillitis, etc, are diseases. Even though we should be cautious in life, nobody knows who can have any of them. This primitive mentality towards illnesses permeates even the highest points of Nigerian leadership – political, religious, social, and business. For example, since 2016 when Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) took ill in office as President of Nigeria, he has never officially disclosed what he has been going to London to treat. On a number of occasions, he has been away for months due to ill health, yet the country is not qualified to know what is wrong with its leader. Similarly, in November 2009, Alhaji Umaru Yar’Adua, who was then the President of Nigeria, was flown to Saudi Arabia for medical treatment. The country he was leading was not told his true health condition. For about two months, Nigeria had nobody in charge because Yar’Adua did not hand over to the then Vice President, Dr Goodluck Jonathan. Nigerians had to embark on street protests before the Senate intervened and came up with the “doctrine of necessity” by which Jonathan was made the acting President. When some non-Nigerians and Nigerians call Nigeria names because of scenarios like these, many, including the same leaders who treat the people and country with levity, would get offended and claim that Nigeria has been insulted. But it is their series of insults on Nigeria that elicited such response. Recently, the Founder of the Synagogue Church of All Nations, Prophet T. B. Joshua, was announced dead at 57 years old. There was no official statement about the cause of his death. How could a man conduct religious services and then die the same day? What happened to him? No answer. Why was his cause of death not disclosed? If it was disclosed that he died of heart failure, cardiac arrest, stroke or cancer, would he no longer be held in high esteem? Well, how could a prophet who was visited for healing from all parts of the world by even heads of state be said to have died of an illness? No. The mystery around him had to be sustained. It was the same case in May when the Redeemed Christian Church of God announced that Pastor Dare Adeboye, son of its General Overseer, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, died in his sleep at 42 years old. There was no official statement about the cause of the death. Was he poisoned? Did he die of heart failure caused by high blood pressure? No answer. You don’t need to know. This is family matter! In 1997 when the Afrobeat legend, Fela Anikulapo-Kuti, died, his elder brother, Prof Olikoye Ransome-Kuti, who coincidentally as health minister had announced Nigeria’s first HIV case in 1986, disclosed that Fela died of complications from HIV-AIDS. For such an iconic figure like Fela who said HIV-AIDS could not affect African people, it was good that millions of people who believed everything he said should know that if AIDS could kill Fela, then it would eat common folks! The disclosure of the cause of Fela’s death helped in convincing many people about the existence of HIV-AIDS than millions of money spent on advertising and awareness, thereby saving lives. Yet, the disclosure did not reduce the stature of Fela in music. Compare these cases with how the deaths of Michael Jackson, Senator Ted Kennedy, and Senator John McCain of the USA were reported or how Magic Johnson kept the American public and the world updated about his HIV status. What about the COVID-19 illness of the UK Prime Minister, Mr Boris Johnson? When diseases are disclosed early, patients may be saved from dying. Secondly, the more illnesses and causes of deaths are disclosed, the more we kill the stigma ignorant people attach to them. Also when people know that full autopsy will be done on dead relatives or associates, the rate of secret murders will reduce. From the first time I heard Sound Sultan’s song Jagbajantis, I liked his rhythm, lyrics and wisdom. He didn’t just sing, he also preached. He used humour to X-ray Nigeria’s social problems. It is sad that he had to leave the scene at the young age of 44. But artistes don’t die because they  continue to live through their works. Rest in peace, great soul! Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com