The Lead Obstetrician and Gynaecologist at the Irrua Specialist Teaching Hospital, Edo State, Dr. Joseph Okoeguale,says some intrauterine devices can last for ten years. According to the World Health Organisation, ensuring access for all people to their preferred contraceptive methods, such as IUD, promotes several human rights. These include the right to life and liberty, freedom of opinion and expression and the right to work and education, as well as bringing significant health and other benefits. The use of contraception like IUD, WHO said, also prevents pregnancy-related health risks for women, especially for adolescent girls, and when births are separated by less than two years. Speaking with PUNCH Healthwise, Dr.Okoeguale noted that the IUD containing hormones has the additional benefits of controlling heavy menstrual bleeding and menstrual pains. An IUD is a tiny, long-term, reversible, and one of the most effective birth control methods that are put into the uterus to prevent pregnancy. Dr. Okoeguale, who is also the Deputy Director, Institute of Viral Haemorrhagic Fever and Emergent Pathogens at the hospital, said IUDs work primarily by making the womb hostile and unfavourable to plant the baby that is developing. “It elicits what we call inflammatory reaction inside the womb. It also thins out the lining of the womb to achieve this purpose. The type that contains progesterone also works by preventing the woman from ovulating and make the mucous from the neck of the womb thick so that it doesn’t allow sperm to pass through easily. “Some copper-containing devices are also known to be toxic to developing babies and would not allow the babies to develop in the womb “The indication for IUD insertion is to achieve contraception. It is a long-acting but reversible method of contraception. Those containing hormones have the additional benefit to control heavy menstrual bleeding and menstrual pains. “IUD can be removed by the healthcare provider, by pulling on the thread of the device. “Copper IUD can be used for up to 10 years, while hormone-containing IUD is used for five years, but all can be removed whenever the patient desires,” he said. Explaining further, he said IUDs, also called intrauterine contraceptive devices, are devices for pregnancy prevention and they are placed within the cavity of the uterus (the womb) to achieve this purpose. “Some of these devices are inert, meaning they just contain a small copper T-shaped wire that does the job of preventing pregnancy. There is another type of intrauterine device called the intrauterine system. It contains the hormone, progesterone, and has some advantages over the inert one,” he said. The Centre for Health Research noted that, originally, IUDs were only prescribed to women who had at least one child, as the insertion process was much easier and less painful for women who have already given birth, but recent improvements in the mechanisms of insertion have made IUDs available for all women. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com