The lead counsel for the Indigenous People of Biafra, Ifeanyi Ejiofor, has said that Nnamdi Kanu was arrested by the Kenyan Government before he was handed over to the Department of State Services. Ejiofor stated this while giving an update of the case on Friday evening on Twitter. He wrote, “My client, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu, was actually abducted by the accursed Kenya’s Special Police Force on the 18th of June 2021 at their International Airport, and consequently taken to an undisclosed residence under dehumanising conditions. “He was tortured and subjected to all forms of inhuman treatment which worsened his health condition. He was illegally detained for eight good days in Kenya before being transferred to their Nigerian counterpart. “He was purportedly investigated on a bogus charge while in their custody, ostensibly awaiting to be handed over after their findings proved him innocent of all the spurious allegations. They later beckoned on their Nigerian counterpart to take over. “The Kenya government was deeply involved in the abduction, detention and ill-treatment of my client before the illegal handover to their Nigerian counterpart.” Ejiofor also alleged that the health condition of the IPOB leader was deteriorating, claiming that a scan showed his heart had widened by 13 per cent as a result of how he was handled by the Kenyan government. He added, “A scan of his heart showed that the heart has enlarged by 13 per cent due to the dehumanising treatment meted out to him. There will be a need for immediate proper medical examination and attention for him. “Mazi Nnamdi Kanu conveyed his goodwill message to all IPOB family members worldwide, and craved your unrelentless prayers. We are going back to the court for the needful. Other details cannot be entertained here. His fortified legal team will address these infractions at the proper forum as we progress. Other details on our legal strategy may not be made public. “With Chukwuokike Abiama on our side, victory is assured. For if God Almighty be for us, who can be against us? ” Kanu, who is being prosecuted on charges of treasonable felony, was rearrested after jumping bail and repatriated to Nigeria on Sunday. Meanwhile, Kenya has denied involvement in the arrest and extradition of Nnamdi Kanu,  the leader of the Indigenous People of Biafra. The Kenyan High Commissioner to Nigeria,  Amb. Wilfred Machage, who expressed displeasure over reports that Kanu was arrested in his country, admonished Nigerians to ask the Federal Government how the IPOB leader was apprehended. Kanu’s brother, Kingsley, had alleged that the IPOB leader who jumped bail in 2017, was nabbed in Kenya and extradited to Nigeria on Sunday. A national daily (Not The PUNCH), reported that the Kenyan President, Uhuru  kenyatta, was privy to Kanu’s extradition. But addressing journalists in Abuja on Friday, the Kenyan envoy dismissed the allegations and challenged anyone with evidence linking his country to the incident to produce it. He described as unfortunate and libelous the linking of President  Kenyatta to Kanu’s arrest. Machage stated,”I wish to categorically state that we are not happy at this ridiculous attempt of dragging the name of Kenya and President Uhuru Kenyatta in this matter of arrest and extradition of the self-proclaimed IPOB leader.” Meanwhile, IPOB said Kanu had refused to eat for seven days for fear of being poisoned in the custody of the Department of State Services. The group’s Media and Public Secretary, Emma Powerful, in a statement made available to Saturday PUNCH, said any plans “to inject our leader with poisonous vaccine that will make him die slowly” would lead to “unimaginable consequences.” It expressed regret that Kanu was being denied access to his family members, doctors and lawyers, warning that “Nnamdi Kanu must not die in custody!” The statement read in part, “Following the refusal of the Nigeria Government and its wicked security agency, the Department of State Services, to allow our leader Mazi Nnamdi Kanu’s lawyers and family access to him in the dungeon of DSS’ secret cell, it is now confirmed that their real intention in kidnapping him and bundling him back to Nigeria is to kill him. “The mission they could not actualise in September 14, 2017, when soldiers invaded his Afaraukwu home during Operation Python Dance, is what they want to actualise now. “His health has been deteriorating in the DSS cell as he has refused to eat their food for almost one week since they kidnapped him. We demand that DSS should allow him access to his lawyers and family members for this is his lawful right. “His lawyers are being harassed and we pity them and Nigeria if anything happens to our leader, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu. The Nigeria Government and security agencies must understand the product we are made of and how prepared we are.” The proscribed group, in its statement, urged South-East governors, Ohaneze Ndigbo, and politicians in the region to ensure that no harm came to Kanu, alleging that “Miyetti Allah and sympathisers of terrorists are going free in the country but ordinary persons and innocent citizens are being molested every day because they are Biafrans.” IPOB added, “The Fulani- controlled Federal Government of Nigeria and DSS should release our leader for international medical check-up. He must have access to his doctors to ascertain his current health status since he was abducted and tortured by the security agents. “We declare without equivocation that the Nigerian government should not take our calmness for granted. Should anything untoward happen to our leader while in detention or even after, we will totally cripple Nigeria and its government! “Our intelligence units are following the events, including the torture being meted out to him since his abduction. The world should see how the wicked Nigerian government is provoking us. “While Boko Haram terrorists and bandits maiming and killing indigenous Nigerians in their ancestral lands are made to go free, and even the few captured ones are released and given cash after sumptuous treatment in detention, an innocent freedom fighter is made to languish in detention. “His lawyers are being harassed also. This is unacceptable! The world should not pretend about this injustice!” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com