I was touched by the emotions that an actress (whose troubled marriage played out very publicly) displayed in the images that made the rounds on the social media recently. At what seemed to be the birthday party of her new man. From laughter, to the kissing and (unexpectedly) the tears! I said to myself that every woman coming from ‘an experience’ will find her tears relatable, especially the experiences that left one doubting one’s sanity. Experiences in which one is privately pinched so hard and publicly made “the trouble.’’ Those tears are simply the response of a woman to GOODNESS. A humble appreciation to life, that a soul could go beyond the ‘public opinion’ to see the heart. It’s quite rare for happiness to visit the space of anybody that has been sentenced by the court of ‘public opinion.’ Mind games are not the fort of those who relate from the heart. And I have yet to see a deeply ‘hurt love’ that handles ‘it’ so well but ‘public opinion’ doesn’t care! When grappling with a ‘hurt love’, nobody escapes the ‘shift from normal’ in behaviour, no matter how ‘proper’ you want to be. You can’t predict the avenue a heart will choose to purge troubled emotions before healing sets in. Reason, it’s sometimes best to respond with silence when people live out ‘how they are feeling.’ Don’t remind them of how they should comport themselves. They will, if they could help it! A hurting heart knows no embarrassment. A heart that is filled with pain has no space for any other feeling. So, whatever it’s letting out there, is what it can no longer hold in. Vulnerable people are REAL! However, what’s most important is finding the courage NOT to write in the dust, even after you have touched it. Having faith in life to give you THE BEST outcome in every situation, embracing magnanimity (especially) in your ‘season of laughter.’ A lot of people are unable to ‘jump and pass’ the urge to prove a point to ‘them’ in their season of laughter.  In your season of laughter, you see the whim to show them ‘pepper.’ Get back at them, compete with them, belong or become better than them? STARVE IT! Otherwise, your life ceases to be truly yours. In fact, nothing of your intention survives anymore without ‘them’ pulling the strings. The result of that is that you lose focus and the energy you inject into your ‘new life’ becomes mundane, shallow and eventually toxic. Guard against that and focus on the life unfolding before you. Leave all that happened in the past behind. And take only the lessons with you. Life is still happening to you (as well as everyone else) and there is no guarantee that the next season will be ‘all laughter.’ But if you are mindful of the energy with which you greet your issues, the least of your concern will be ‘them.’ At such moments, you will simply roll up your sleeves and FACE IT. Any emotion that has ‘them’ as a pull is a heavy one on the soul. If you DROP IT, your soul will thank you! I note our penchant to use someone’s troubled past to judge them but I admonish us to learn to let people’s PAST be and wish them well, instead. When someone gets up from their ‘mud,’ applaud their courage. It is NOT in your place to attempt dragging them into a PAST they no longer live in. You can’t ‘un-forgive’ a past that is not yours. Sometimes, the higher moral ground we think we have is because life has not really happened to us. Walk a mile in another’s shoes and see if what pinched them would not shake you completely. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com