The Vice Chairman of the All Progressives Congress in Kwara State and party Chairman, Kwara North, Chief Sunday Oyebiyi, speaks with TUNDE OYEKOLA on new twists to the intra-party crisis rocking the party What is the cause of the crisis in the state chapter of the APC? The cause of the crisis is the inability of the said leader to accommodate people who have worked for the party. He does not want to recognise those who worked for the success of the party during the last election and he is not ready to involve them in governance. Governor AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq accused some APC party leaders of neglecting him in the campaign that brought him to office. How do you see the allegations? After Mallam AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq emerged as the APC candidate in 2018, the chairman of the party, Bashir Bolarinwa, called a meeting and appealed to all those who contested against him, as well as other members of the party, that we should all work together for the success of our party at the poll. Thereafter, the chairman called another meeting of all the aspirants that contested at our (former) Zango area APC office. The candidate, who is now the governor, also attended. It was at this meeting that we discussed the issue of campaign structure. This governor, that day, came with Dr. Yahaya Oloriegbe, who was the APC Kwara Central senatorial candidate. Mallam AbdulRazaq said he would want a bottom-heavy campaign structure that would bring all groups together. There and then, we set up a committee which included the Secretary of the APC, Alhaji Isowo Mustapha; the Chairman of the Kwara Central Senatorial District, Abdullateef Alakawa; Olabanji (Kwara South Senatorial District) and Chief Sunday Oyebiyi from the Kwara North Senatorial District. I, Chief Oyebiyi, was made the committee chairman. The candidate nominated Kale Belgore to be a member of that committee. We met about six times and we came out with a report and submitted it to the governorship candidate through the same Belgore. The job of the committee was to design a campaign structure that would handle the election. This we did creditably. After the submission, we waited awhile and nothing was heard from him. It was then the chairman called some elders to inform them that our campaign ought to have started. After that period, the then governorship candidate turned his back against us and we never saw him again. The chairman would call sometimes but the candidate would not pick his calls. But the chairman kept calling. But for the governor to say he never knew about the campaign structure which he contributed to by the nomination of Belgore is very funny. The governor also said the party leaders did not support his campaign…. That is not true. This is a man who wanted to kick off his campaign at Kosubosu in the Baruten Local Government Area of the state and refused to inform the party and stakeholders. A day to the kick-off of the campaign, the chairman went to him to ask about the rumoured launch of the campaign and he affirmed it. The chairman then asked him if he had informed all the stakeholders and the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed; the candidate said he did not inform any of them. So, one way or another, the kick-off did not take place that day. The following day, he went to inform the chairman that he would go to Baruten to greet the traditional rulers. As the chairman was seeing him off, the candidate pointedly told the chairman that the party should handle its own campaign, while he would handle his. He said the party should source for money to do its campaign. After, the chairman called Alhaji Lai Mohammed that there was a problem at hand and that the party could not afford to fail. Then it dawned on the minister that he needed to move round and source for money. By his recent utterances, Governor AbdulRazaq has confirmed that he never funded the campaign that made him win the election. It is very absurd for him to come out now and say that he was never supported. Which campaign did he do? Secondly, apart from that, party leaders have been doing house-to-house, ward-to-ward and local-government-to-local-government campaigns. What he is referring to is a town campaign, where you spend three to four hours in a community. That is not a campaign but just visitation. AbdulRazaq, in his recent statement, also said the party leaders did not release funds donated to him for the campaign. Is that true? That is very funny too. If governors and ministers donated money for some individuals for the 2019 governorship campaign in the state, I challenge him to mention the names of those who collected the money. The governor should be factual enough to come out clearly and say what he means by this.  We cannot be chasing shadows. This is an area he has to expantiate on and show proof. That is a vague statement in every form. Who is the author of ‘Otoge’? In 1983, one of the APC stalwarts in the state, Alhaji LAK Jimoh, propounded the slogan, when he was a governorship candidate. In 2011, the man also came out with the same slogan. For anybody to lay claim to the issue of ‘Otoge’ is an attempt to change history, which is not possible. I don’t see the governor as the author or the originator of the slogan. Don’t you think the raging crisis may further polarise the party? The party is polarised because some people grouped themselves as (AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq), while those of us who stay with the party still belong to the APC. The polarity can be seen clearly along the lines of those following individuals and those following the party. There are reports of the formation of a third force out of the APC in the state. What’s your take on this? Staying in a political party is a matter of interest. They told the whole world what prompted them to take those steps. That is their own right. No one can take that away from them. But what I know is that what they said is true, but those of us who still remain in the party believe we can bring a positive change to what is happening. There is no need to run away from anybody. We will remain in the same party and make sure that the right thing is done. Don’t you think that if the crisis continues till the time of the election, it will affect the chances of being retained in power? I think the crisis would have been settled before the election, if the governor has a rethink because he is the one fighting the party. We are not fighting him and I think it will be in his own interest if the crisis is resolved; and it will also be in the interest of the party and the people of the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com