Justice E. A. Obile of the Federal High Court in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, has convicted and sentenced two Internet fraudsters, Jonàhan Collins and Godspower Ofonime, to six years’ imprisonment each for Internet fraud. The two, who were arraigned before the court by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission on July 6 and July 7, 2021, pleaded guilty to the charges preferred against them. One of the charges against Collins read, “That you, Jonathan Collins (Alias Janis Louise Hughes; Allan Carmack Calluk; Dr. James Lattimore) sometime in Sapele, Delta State, within the jurisdiction of this honourable court, did fraudulently impersonate yourself on the Internet as Janis Louise Hughes, a white man from Glenville, North Carolina, USA with the intent to obtain money from unsuspecting men, thereby committing an offence contrary to Section 22 (2) (b)(ii) of the Cybercrime (Prohibition Prevention, etc.) Act 2015 and punishable under Section 22 (2) (b) (iv) of the same Act.” Justice Obile convicted and sentenced Collins to two years’ imprisonment on each count with an option of fine of N100,000 only. He also ordered that the laptop and three phones used in committing the crime be forfeited to the Federal Government. The judge also convicted and sentenced Ofonime to two years’ imprisonment on each of the three counts with an option of fine of N200,000. The anti-graft agency said Ofonime ran into trouble when verified intelligence by the EFCC linked him with scam emails to foreigners. Similarly, one Odobor Chukwunalu was arraigned before Justice Okon Abang of the Federal High Court sitting in Warri, Delta State. A statement by the EFCC’s Head of Media and Publicity, Wilson Uwujaren, said Chukwunalu was arraigned on two counts for allegedly obtaining the sum of N2,700,000 under false pretences. The defendant pleaded not guilty to the charge and was admitted to bail in the sum of N4m with one surety in like sum. In another development, a Federal High Court sitting in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, has convicted and sentenced one Donatus Onyeabor to two years’ imprisonment for possession of counterfeited currencies. Uwujaren disclosed this in a statement issued on Thursday, adding that the Port Harcourt Zonal office of the commission arraigned Onyeabor before the Federal High Court presided over by Justice Obile. The statement said the convict was arraigned on one count bordering on currency counterfeiting, contrary to Section 5(1)(b) of the Counterfeit Currency (Special Provisions) Act Cap C35 of the Revised Edition (Laws of the Federation of Nigeria) 2007 and punishable under Section 5 (1) (C) of the same Act. The statement further said Onyeabor pleaded guilty to the charge. Justice Obile sentenced him to two years’ imprisonment, with an option of fine of N200, 000. He ordered that the counterfeited currency be destroyed by the EFCC and evidence of the destruction filed with the court registrar. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com