Dutch national, Arjen Robben, has announced his retirement from football at age 37. The ex-Bayern Munich winger made this known on Thursday via his social media accounts: He wrote, “Dear football friends, I have decided to stop my active football career. “A very difficult choice. I want to thank everyone for all the heartwarming support! “Regards, Arjen.” This is the second time that the 37-year-old has announced his decision to hang up his boots, the first time was in July 2019 following the end of the 2018/19 Bundesliga season in which Bayern Munich finished in first place. However, Robben did not follow through on his decision to retire after the first announcement, as he returned to Groningen, the club where he began his career in 2000. Although Groningen has reportedly offered Robben the chance to sign a new one-year deal, he has chosen to retire permanently after an injury-ravaged 2020-21 campaign. Robben is left-footed and typically played on the right flank in attack. He is known for his dribbling skills, pace, ball control, and his long-range shots, and is currently considered to be one of the greatest in his position. ESPN once described him thus: [He is] “able to take on and beat defenders at the drop of a hat, Robben’s ability to get to the byline and deliver accurate crosses instils fear into any defence.” Robben first shot to prominence with Groningen, for whom he was player of the year for the 2000–01 Eredivisie season. Two years later he signed for PSV and was there until 2004. While at PSV, he became the Netherlands’ Young Player of the Year and won an Eredivisie title. Robben joined Jose Mourinho’s Chelsea side in 2004 but his debut was delayed due to injury. Upon returning to fitness, he helped Chelsea bring home two consecutive Premier League titles. He also won FA Cup, scoring 19 goals in 109 appearances for the Blues in total, and was the Premier League Player of the Month in November 2005. Following an injury-prone third season in England, he signed for Real Madrid in 2007 for a transfer fee of €35 million. At Real, he won a league and Supercopa de Espana double in his first year, but was sold to Bayern after a disappointing second season. In August 2009, Robben transferred to Bayern Munich for a fee of around €25 million. It was in Bayern that he really made his mark and formed a deadly strike partnership with France’s Frank Ribéry. Together, they were affectionately called “Robbery”. In his ten-year stint at Bayern, Robben played 201 matches and registered a 99-tally. In his first season at Bayern, he won the league title. He also won the 2013 UEFA Champions League, scoring the winning goal in the final against Borussia Dortmund. He likewise was named to the UEFA Squad of the Season. At Bayern, he scored 144 goals over 309 matches and won 20 trophies, including 8 Bundesliga titles and 8 DFB Pokals. For his national team, The Netherlands, Robben had 96 appearances and scored 37 goals. He was part of The Netherlands’ team that lost to Spain in the 2010 FIFA World Cup final. In this tournament, he won the Bronze Ball and was named in the All-Star Team.