THE Anambra State Governor, Willy Obiano, on Thursday, announced the sack of no fewer than 20 of his aides for allegedly working against the emergence of Prof. Chukwuma Soludo as the Governorship Candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance for November election. A letter dated July 6, 2021, which was signed by the Chief of Staff to the Anambra State Government, Primus Odili, indicated that 20 aides had already received letters terminating their appointments. A source who pleaded anonymity because he was not authorised to speak to the media, said, “Those people worked against Prof Soludo in the APGA primary election. “They even went and assisted in conducting a parallel election where some other persons were nominated as candidates of the party.” The letter from the office of the Chief of Staff to the governor sighted by our correspondent ordered that “All salaries, incentives and benefits of those affected by the dismissal should be terminated forthwith.” The letter read in part, “I write to communicate the approval of His Excellency, Chief Dr. Willie Obiano, the Executive Governor of Anambra State, of the termination of appointments of the underlisted appointees with immediate effect.” Some of the affected appointees include Azubuike Okafor, Senior Special Assistant on Grassroots Mobilisations; Prince Onyechi Okafor, Senior Special Assistant on Lands; as well as John Onyeakpa. Others are Chika Ibeneme, Senior Special Assistant on Media; Joseph Okonkwo, Senior Special Assistant on Project Management (FADAMA); Esedo Uzochukwu, Special Assistant on Environment; Chidi Ekwenugo, Senior Special Assistant ANSSIPA; Ezekwelu Kingsley, Senior Special Assistant on Media. While reacting to the development, the State chapter of the opposition All Progressives Congress lampooned Obiano, for the decision to fire his aides. In a statement by its Publicity Secretary, Okelo Madukaife, the APC  described the governor’s action as “despotic.” The APC said, “The sacking of political appointees by Governor Willie Obiano, for supporting aspirants of their choice within the All Progressives Grand Alliance, vindicates us that the state government is wasteful and despotic. “This is more so when in a fruitless bid to cover up the advanced dictatorship, the government claimed ‘their appointment was terminated for redundancy.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com