Investment One Financial Services Limited, an investment banking and asset management company, says it has successfully arranged the acquisition of a strategic industrial asset for Guinness Nigeria Plc from its private clients. It disclosed this on Sunday in a statement titled ‘Investment One Financial Services arranges 10 hectare property deal for Guinness Plc’. According to Investment One, the industrial asset is a 10-hectare property in the Ikeja industrial hub of Lagos State. It said the multibillion-naira asset, which formerly belonged to Universal Steel Limited, was acquired by Guinness Plc for the purpose of expanding its operational base in Nigeria. The acquisition process, which kicked off in 2020, was eventually consummated in June 2021, with Investment One playing a pivotal role in making the deal happen, the statement said. The Group Executive Director, Capital Management Division, Ademola Aofolaju, said the deal was very significant to the company as it clearly reaffirmed its transactional capabilities. He said, “Our role was to arrange the sale of the asset on behalf of our private clients. Guinness is acquiring the asset to enlarge its operations in Nigeria. It speaks a lot to our advisory and transactional capabilities that we are able to consummate this deal in the current economic environment. “We are proud of the role that we played starting from the beginning when our clients initially acquired the asset, and now that they are exiting the investment. So, it is a very significant transaction for us as a company.” He added that the entire transaction, from the initial acquisition and subsequent sale to Guinness, spanned five years. According to the statement, Aofolaju spoke at the deal signing ceremony between all parties to the transaction which held at the Victoria Island Corporate Head office of Investment One Financial Services Limited recently. He explained that Investment One, in terms of financial arrangements and intermediation, had represented several clients over the past few years. “This remains a major area of strength for the company and we are proud of that. We have partners both locally and internationally that we work with and we have leveraged on these relationships to arrange funding for our clients across various sectors in the past few years,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com