Special Adviser to the Lagos State Governor on Education, Mr Tokunbo Wahab, has said human resource development and capacity building are crucial to achieving success in the six pillars development agenda called T.H.E.M.E.S. Wahab stated this at the closing ceremony of a three-day capacity building  retreat organised by the Office of the Special Adviser on Education  for management staff and agencies of the  office. Wahab said the  Lagos State Government would continue to invest in capacity building of its workforce to ensure success of various development initiatives, adding that civil servants as drivers of   government development policies were partners in progress. The retreat which was titled, ‘Building a Healthy Work- Culture through Self – Leadership, Synergy and Technical Transfer of Knowledge to Practice,’  was  aimed at assessing  performance of the office and its ministerial mandates over the last  two years. “The programme has helped the management to  know  its  areas of stronghold, where delivery had been at optimal level and areas that needed adjustment for improved  performance. ‘This   retreat has given  us the opportunity for the first time,  to come together, rub minds, exchange ideas, share knowledge and bring to the front burner, issues that are crucial to achieving efficient service delivery and greater productivity in our daily operations.’’ Wahab also commended the Agency for Mass Education for training and graduating over 700 trainees on various vocations. ‘‘Our Agency for Mass Education has set the pace for improved performance by graduating a total of 703 trainees in different vocations and entrepreneurship skills development across our seven vocational centres.’’ ‘’This is highly encouraging and I sincerely commend the leadership and management of the Agency for Mass Education for doing us proud, while I urge you to come up with more advocacy programmes targeted at poverty eradication, youth empowerment and economic self-reliant,’’ he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com