Ghanaian actress, Ella Mensah, is one woman who has no qualms about baring her mind. Known to be audacious and sensual, not a few would think that she would have no qualms sending nude pictures to her lover. However, in an interview with Sunday Scoop, Mensah stated that though she used to think sending nude pictures to one’s partner would spice up the relationship, she had changed her mind. She said, “My opinion on sending nude pictures to one’s partner has changed. I used to think it was okay to do such when one is in a relationship because it would spice up things. But now that I am more mature, I believe it is wrong. Nothing lasts any more these days. Most men are now very petty too. Some men even go as far as posting their ex-wives’ nudes on social media to get back at them for leaving. So, I will advise women not to send their nude pictures to their partners.” The actress, who has not appeared in any new movie recently, stated that she had not quit acting. She said, “No, I have not quit acting. I just took a break from acting to pursue another career in New York, United States of America.” Mensah also noted that she was grateful for how far she had come in her career and personal life. She added, “I celebrated my birthday two weeks ago and I’m grateful for everything. Many great things are happening to me and I am so thankful for them all. My son is doing well and my amazing family members are all doing great as too. It has been blessings upon blessings for me. I am really grateful and thankful for all that I have.” On if she would prefer a public wedding to a private one, the busty actress said, “I prefer a private wedding. Those who know me will tell you that I am very private. I don’t post anything private— my family, relationship status or partner— on social media. I believe in privacy. That’s the part of my life that keeps me sane. My work life is already public, so my personal life is strictly private. For those reasons, I would choose a private wedding.” The Playboy actress also insisted that she wouldn’t advise any of her fans to tattoo her name on their body. She said, “If any of my fans decides to tattoo my name on their body, I would appreciate it but I won’t advise anybody to do that. Tattoos are permanent. I have a few, so I know. One ought to think about it carefully before getting one.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com