The Ambassador of the People’s Republic of China to Nigeria, Cui Jianchun, has implored the All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party to work together for the development of Nigeria. Jianchun made the call on Tuesday in Abuja, while speaking to journalists on the sideline of the Communist Party of China and World Political Parties Summit which was held virtually. The summit which was part of activities to mark the centenary celebration of the CPC was themed, ‘For the People’s Wellbeing: The responsibility of Political parties.’ Citing examples from the success of the CPC in China, the envoy said the communist party was able to bring prosperity, peace and development to the people by working together with other smaller political parties. He, however,  noted that it was important for all political parties, including the two major parties, APC and PDP to work together for the wellbeing of the Nigerians. Jianchun stated, “Party is not all about power, but about the people and the party really should have the cooperation. “Because all the parties have their own purpose but the most important purpose is serving for the progress of the people, for the profit and also for the prospect of the people. “So today is a very special conference with 500 parties from 160 countries and the Chinese President delivered a speech and the purpose is trying to raise the awareness of the importance of party. “And we believe that in the 21st century, the first paramount importance is how we can have a party to serve the people, the interest of the people and also to work together to address the challenges. “There is huge room potential for the two parties including PDP, and the APC which are the major parties. “I do believe that there are a lot of things that the two parties can share. For example, in China, the party takes the leadership, not only for fighting poverty but for the direction of the country for working together. “So I do believe that the two parties can work together.” President of China, Xi Jinping, who is also the General Secretary of the CPC, also urged world political parties to always work for the wellbeing and development of their citizens and nations. Jinping said that over the past 100 years, the CPC has united the Chinese people and helped in realizing the great transformation of the country and the people.