The African Development Bank has stated that the risk of debt defaults is increasing among African countries. This statement was contained in the Strategy for Economic Governance in Africa, which was launched on Friday by AFDB. The economic strategic document stated that countries have developed debt vulnerabilities due to decline in economic output, which was triggered by certain policies and measures to curtail the COVID-19 pandemic, adding that public debts had exceeded 50 per cent of GDP. It stated, “Declining economic output as a result of containment measures against COVID-19 and policy measures to stimulate the economies have heightened debt vulnerabilities. “Public debt now exceeds 50% of GDP in nearly half of its regional member countries. Over the last decade, Africa increased its debt at a faster rate than any other region.” The bank stated that following the increase in public debt stock, there had been a corresponding increase in the risk of debt defaults, adding that at least 24 African countries had applied for the Paris Club–led Debt Service Suspension Initiative. “The risk of defaults on debt, much of which is now non-concessional, has increased. At least 24 African countries have applied for the Paris Club–led Debt Service Suspension Initiative, which would free up resources to fight the pandemic,” the document noted. It recommended that countries focus on developing the capacity for effective debt management, as well as strengthen growth, financing instruments, and effective governance, which would be highly beneficial towards avoiding any debt crisis. It said, “Building the capacity for debt management becomes important, but there is also a need to revamp the nexus between growth, financing instruments, and effective governance. “Doing so would ensure that reforms adopted in the context of debt suspension or restructuring are properly timed and tailored towards giving credibility back to governments on their policy actions. “In other words, the fiscal space that ensues from debt suspension can be put to use towards public investment in strategic sectors and growth-enhancing governance reforms through fiscal consolidation are critical in this context.” Further in the document, the bank re-affirmed the rising level of debt in Africa, alongside the increasing risk of debt distress. The bank stated, “The level of debt in Africa has soared, rising from 38 per cent of GDP in 2011 to 61 per cent in 2019. “In 2013, only six African countries were considered at high risk of or in debt distress, according to the debt sustainability analysis of the International Monetary Fund. “In June 2020, this figure reached 20, and it is likely to increase as a result of fiscal pressures compounded by the COVID-19 pandemic.” It added that the composition of debt in Africa had changed from less concessional debt to higher non-concessional borrowing, with more options of debt financing, which increased Africa’s debt stock, and may lead to a negative credit outlook for the continent. The bank said the contribution of commercial creditors to Africa’s total external debt rose from 17 per cent in 2000 to 40 per cent by the end of 2019. It added that Eurobond issuance in Africa soared between 2008 and 2018. Although the change indicated growing investor confidence in debt securities issued by RMCs, it also increased the countries’ debt burden, the AfDB said. It added that levels of concessional financing had not kept pace with demand. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com