In the wake of the murder of a businessman and the Chief Executive Officer of Super TV, Usifo Ataga, by his lover, Chidinma Ojukwu, many have said that it is better for a man to marry more than one wife, rather than keep mistresses. However, in an interview with Saturday Beats, actress Jaiye Kuti, disagreed with the notion that polygamy was a solution to infidelity. She said, “I don’t think polygamy will solve the issues. Polygamy will rather lead to other issues and the society is aware of that. That is why we chose monogamy over polygamy. I don’t see polygamy as a solution. Discipline and loving one’s neighbour as oneself is the solution.” The actress also advised people not to believe everything they saw regarding the lives of popular people. She said, “Everyone wants to be famous and they do everything to keep up appearances. Don’t believe all the alleged success stories you see everywhere. They may seem perfect. But, you can only see things from outside. You don’t have to be a cynic. Just don’t take appearance for facts. Celebrities may have contributed in a little way (to people wanting to get rich by all means), but I think the terrible economic situation has contributed much more. “The poverty in the land is making young people and everyone else, as a matter of fact, to seek any way possible to escape it. Therefore, some people are going the ‘sugar daddy’ way. Men should also consider that these young women could be their daughters and they don’t need to have an affair with them before they can help them.” Kuti also emphasised the need for parents to be vigilant when raising their children. She said, “With or without the unfortunate incident of the Super TV CEO, parents must always monitor their children and more importantly, live a life that can encourage their children to live decently and content.” The actress also urged the police to carry out proper investigations on the case. She said, “The murder of the Super TV CEO should be properly investigated, because it looks like there’s more to the issue than meets the eyes.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com