Couples battling fertility complications can get respite from surrogacy – a method of assisted reproduction whereby a woman agrees to bear a child for another person or persons. LARA ADEJORO explores the medical, cultural, and religious issues involved with the procedure in Nigeria. Surrogacy is a high-tech method that facilitates the germination of eggs and semen from intending parents in a third party willing to help carry the pregnancy to term. The terms of the arrangement are negotiable. And legal practitioners say although surrogacy is not regulated in any subsisting piece of legislation in Nigeria, there is no law criminalising the same in the country. However, in Nigeria, there seems to be a religious prohibition against it. Many faiths emphasise the importance of a husband and wife conceiving naturally on their own, and involving anyone else in this process can be viewed as unholy. But to the surrogates, it is a fulfilling experience helping someone else to carry her pregnancy, which may explain why they sacrifice their time and put their bodies at potential risk. “I did it because I wanted to help a family have a child of their own,” says Mrs. Agatha Ejiroghene (not real names), who is in her late 30s. Becoming a surrogate is not an easy decision to make, but for her, it’s a no-brainer. Her joy is to provide a priceless gift for another family. She became a surrogate in 2018, and the experience was fulfilling for her. In the surrogacy world, the role of Ejiroghene is called a gestational carrier. It is the act of carrying a pregnancy for an individual or couple, using an egg that is not hers, resulting in a baby not biologically related to her “Before 2018, I didn’t know anything about surrogacy. A relative however enlightened me about everything. “It wasn’t as if she was inviting me to be a surrogate mother; she was just enlightening because I had a misconception about it. “Afterwards, I researched it, I learnt more about it and I felt it was good. At least, there won’t be any woman out there who can’t have their children,” she said. Ejiroghene, a biological mother of two boys, still retains her firm body in spite of 27 months of pregnancy. Her first experience came when a surrogacy agency had a client in late 2018, and she offered to help after approval from her husband, who had travelled for five years in search of greener pastures. “At first, he was hesitant but after explaining to him, he eventually approved of it. “I know what women go through in marriage as a result of childlessness and what extended families make them go through. I did it because I wanted to help a family have a child of their own,” she said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com