Nigerian stars have taken to their social media pages to celebrate popular Nigerian actress, filmmaker and fitness enthusiast, Kate Henshaw, as she clocks 50 years old today. Hailing the screen diva, her colleague, Rita Dominic, took to her verified Instagram account to post several pictures of Henshaw, describing her as an ‘all-around amazing woman’. Dominic wrote, “Wishing my hot beautiful friend a very happy birthday! You are such a bubbly bunny and an all-around amazing woman and I pray that the rest of your years be filled with every good thing on this earth. May the happiness you find today stay with you forever and a day! Love you lots @k8henshaw. P:S – This is what 50 look.” Also eulogising the delectable actress, ace actress and filmmaker, Uche Jombo, took to her verified Instagram page to post a video of Kate Henshaw. She wrote, “I can write a book on the institution called KATE! I have loved her since my first day on a Nollywood set! That’s over two decades of knowing, learning, working and believing in her brand! Timekeeper of sets. A talented queen. Fit4life at 50. WHAT!!!!! “Happy golden jubilee superstar! I celebrate you like always but most importantly I pray God continues to bless, keep, provide and lead you!!! HAPPY BIRTHDAY K8 @k8henshaw.” (sic). Furthermore, actress, Dakore Egbuson-Akande, who fondly describes Henshaw as ‘Kate The Great’, wrote, “Happiest of birthdays to my beautiful, talented and real big sis @k8henshaw on her 50th birthday. #k8dgr8 (as I fondly call her) fitness queen, advocate, leader of the vampire geng!!! Love you loads and wish I was there to celebrate with you but this birthday na all year celebration.” Praising the actress, Empress Njamah wrote, “To know you is to love you, Katie you are an amazing soul, wonderful personality, never a dull moment with you. You carry people matter for head, my backbone, teacher, sister, and friend of twenty-something years. “You have been a sweet soul, @k8henshaw. You already know I love u loads, happy birthday my sweet 16 (like I always call her) 5th floor yet your looks have refused to leave 2nd-floor vampire…Ufanmi of life.” (sic) In 1993, Kate Henshaw auditioned for the lead role in the movie ‘When the Sun Sets’ and was chosen for the role. This was her first appearance in a major Nollywood movie. The multiple award-winning actress has starred in over 45 Nollywood movies. More so, in July 2014, Henshaw officially unveiled her campaign website as she was aspiring to represent the Calabar Municipal/Odukpani Federal constituency under the platform of the People Democratic Party PDP. Although she lost the primary election to Rt. Hon Essien Ayi, Henshaw was later appointed as a special adviser by the Governor of Cross River State, Ben Ayade, in December 2015.