The Niger Delta Exploration & Production Plc, an independent integrated energy company, has said its refinery, with a processing capacity of 11,000 barrels per day, will be inaugurated soon. The company also announced the Department of Petroleum Resources’ approval for the introduction of hydrocarbon to the Train 3 of its Ogbele refinery. Niger Delta Petroleum Resources, a subsidiary of NDEP, had in 2010 inaugurated a 1,000bpd mini refinery for the extraction of diesel from crude oil produced from the Ogbele field. The Chairman of NDEP, Mr Ladi Jadesimi, was quoted in a statement as saying that this would make the full-fledged refinery ‘the first of such privately owned and operated in Nigeria’. The statement said the company’s shareholders at its 26th Annual General Meeting on June 29, 2021, in Lagos, approved a dividend per share of N7.00 for the 2020 financial year. The company said it had consistently paid dividends to shareholders for 15 years. Jadesimi said although the dividend of N7.00 was significantly lower than the record N17 per share for the preceding year, it was a prudent approach based on the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. He said it also reflected NDEP’s solid fundamentals and commitment to its growth strategy and cash preservation. He said despite the effect of the pandemic on business operations in 2020, NDEP ‘demonstrated its resilience by meeting all its obligations, attaining new milestones and ended the year in profit albeit modestly with staff strength intact’. Jadesimi said, “We rose to the challenges posed by COVID-19 and the prolonged lockdown. “The board and management carefully monitored industry developments and took steps to reposition NDEP and its subsidiaries while sustaining efficiency and ensuring company survival.” He said with a profit after tax of N1.6bn for the company and N16.8bn for the group, the NDEP entered 2021 ‘on a solid financial foundation’. He announced the appointments of Mr ‘Gbite Falade and Mr Adegbola Adesina as the group managing director/chief executive and chief financial officer of the company, respectively and thanked the pioneer MD/CEO, DD ‘Layi Fatona, for coming out of retirement to hold fort until Falade’s appointment. Both appointments were ratified by the shareholders at the AGM, according to the statement. Jadesimi said among the highlights of the company’s operations for 2020 was the 15th anniversary of first oil production from its Ogbele marginal oilfield. He said the field had produced 20 million barrels of oil, 95 billion standard cubic feet of gas and over 160 million litres of diesel as at the end of 2020. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com