The umbrella body of Yoruba Self-Determination Groups, Ilana Omo Oodua, has faulted police over the death of a 14-year-old drink seller during a rally for the Yoruba Nation in Lagos State. The drink seller, identified simply as Jumoke, was reportedly hit by a stray bullet fired by a security operative dispersing the Yoruba Nation agitators. The IOO’s Media Communications Secretary, Mr. Maxwell Adeleye, in a statement, said despite the death, the agitators would continue to demand Yoruba Nation. “We want to inform the whole world that a stray bullet fired by Officers of the Nigerian Police killed a yet-to-be-identified Soft Drinks Seller at Ojota, the venue of the Yoruba Nation Rally held July 3rd, 2021. “We have held our rally, notwithstanding, the heavy attempts to ensure we do not come to Lagos. That the people came out in their thousands is an indication that the Yoruba People are not cowards. “This is the beginning. It is no retreat, no surrender. The struggle continues. We are marching forward in the struggle to liberate our land from the shackles of oppression and intimidation”, the statement added. The Lagos State Police Command had denied claims that a 14-year-old girl was shot and killed by the police during the Yoruba Nation rally on Saturday. The police made this known in a statement signed by the Public Relations Officer, in Lagos, Olamuyiwa Adejobi, titled, ‘Re: Alleged killing of a 14-year-old girl at Oodua rally in Lagos’. The statement read, “The attention of the Lagos State Police Command has been drawn to a news making rounds that a 14-year-old girl was hit and killed by police bullet on 3rd July, 2021 at the venue of the Oodua Republic Mega Rally in Ojota, Lagos. “The Command hereby wishes to debunk the rumour and state categorically that it’s a calculated attempt to create confusion and fears in the minds of the good people of Lagos State and the country at large. “The Command did not fire a single live bullet at Ojota rally today. The said corpse was found wrapped and abandoned at a distance, far from Ojota venue of the rally, behind MRS Filling Station, inward Maryland, on the other side of the venue, with dried blood stains suggesting that the corpse is not fresh. “After a close look at the corpse, a wound suspectedly sustained from a sharp object was seen on it. “The news is false and mischievous. The Command therefore urges the general public to disregard the news and go about their lawful normal daily activities while investigation to unravel the incident will commence immediately. “The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, Hakeem Odumosu, therefore commiserates with the family of the found deceased and assures that thorough investigation will be carried out. “The Command equally wishes to warn against the spread or peddling of fake and unconfirmed stories as such could be dangerous and counterproductive.”