The Lagos Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, has said the COVID-19 cases in the state is increasing. The Commissioner, at the South West zonal town hall meeting on COVID-19 vaccination in Lagos on Thursday, said that no fewer than 100 Lagosians have tested positive for the virus in the last five days. Abayomi said the state’s testing figures were going up slightly, adding that it was also expected that a lot of people were coming back from Europe, especially the young children. He said the figure of the infected people steadily rose from 30 cases daily to between 60 and 80 earlier before it remained at 100, saying there were evidence that those infected had not received the vaccine. “About a week ago, we were diagnosing 30 new cases a day, it gradually went up to 60, 80, and it went just above 100 and it has remained above 100 every day for the past four or five days. There is a little reassurance that it is not going to 200, 300, 500 cases. “Looking at the history of the new cases admitted in Lagos, none of them has been vaccinated. It is not scientific, robust evidence, but it is an indication. The early indication shows that those not vaccinated are the ones catching the virus.” The state governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, who was represented at the event by the Secretary to the State Government, Mrs Folashade Jaji, also expressed dismay that the persisting rumors have affected the uptake of the vaccine. Sanwo-Olu declared that Lagos could not afford another lockdown again due to the imminent COVID-19 third wave which he believed could be prevented. While encouraging the citizens to take the vaccine, he said so far, the country had not recorded any case of death associated with the COVID-19 vaccine and almost four million Nigerians had been vaccinated. The governor said, “I am counting on the full support of NPHCDA, the South West Governors, our royal fathers, development partners and all other distinguished guests here present to ensure that we all keep sensitizing our people on the need to adhere to all the precautions and guidelines that will bring the pandemic to a full and final stop.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com