It’s clear that bandits are having a field day in the North, abducting at will and receiving ransoms freely without anyone to check their activities. Eavesdropper is aware like other Nigerians of the bravado displayed by some security agents across some states recently. The same boldness should have been shown in tackling the festering banditry that is making schools particularly in the North unsafe and making pupils, students and parents including teachers panic.  Are those to curb the worrisome trend saying that there is no way out? The situation is annoying and those who swore an oath to protect lives and property should be seen to be alive to their constitutional duties. Why should pupils go to school and end up in the dens of kidnappers? This is utterly unthinkable. It’s the height of irresponsibility to watch endlessly as criminals take charge and everyone appears helpless.  The excesses of the bandits have endured for too long. Their activities have remained unchecked to the extent that they boldly stroll into any school that catches their fancy and abduct pupils or students depending on the school grade. They carry on unhindered and this situation has further empowered them to carry on as if the activities they engage in are legal and enviable.  People are being harassed anyhow and security forces show power in the country’s nooks and crannies anyhow. They should use the same energy to go after bandits and end their reign of impunity. Nigeria should have ended empty talks that have no bearing on national discourse on critical issues. Na who do this country to the extent that majoring in minor is the order of the day and abandoning vital matters to chase inanities is the in-thing. Pupils and students have been killed by the bandits because of their parents or guardians’ delay in paying the usual huge ransom.  No one was arrested and there has been no word or efforts to stop the trend. Those who are to protect them are now quickly safeguarding their own. This is totally unacceptable in a country where voters stayed for ours under the sun to cast their votes to elect people into position. Few days ago, the helplessness of those elected to secure the people was again exhibited when bandits in another daring method invaded Maraban Rido in the Chikun Local Government Area of Kaduna State and abducted some pupils of the Bethel Baptist High School, Damishi. The parents of the abducted pupils are helpless and one can only imagine the situation that they are in, especially as some parents whose pupils were abducted some time ago had to raise ransom to free their children. One cannot blame them. They would definitely not have done that if the system had secured their children. It’s so pathetic that some pupils abducted by insurgents in the North have not been seen till date. It doesn’t matter their number but it is the duty of the state to protect the citizens anywhere and everywhere. Funnily enough, the bandits who recently abducted pupils were said to have reached to the school management to demand foodstuffs. Yes, you heard right. They reached out to the school to make such a demand.  Specifically, the hoodlums asked for food items such as rice, beans, seasoning and oil to feed the pupils. Days after the demand was named, intelligence was not used to trace the bandits in order to secure the release of the pupils. There is no excuse that can be given as to why there is no way yet to apprehend the hoodlums. States in the region should have raised joint security forces to bombard forests in the zone. This impunity has been on for too long and the future of the helpless pupils in the zone must be the priority of any government. Death at Lagos protest Now that protests are now gradually being seen as illegal in this period, it is important for Eavesdropper to state clearly that peaceful protests are not in any way illegal anywhere in the world. In fact, they are an integral part of any democratic structures everywhere. The protests in Lagos State by secession agitators have come and gone. But the sour taste it left in the mouth is what may take a long time to clear. It’s sad that a young lady lost her life who was not even among the protesters. As expected, the denial has come in the usual swift manner even before the allegation came. Those who believe that guns and bullets are the only weapons to use in quelling every peaceful association said, even amid clear observations, that the death was not perpetrated by them. Eavesdropper sympathises with the family members of the slain lady and hopes that justice would be served. It’s sickening to still believe that archaic policing methods fused with useless tactics are still embraced in this modern period. Shame. Shame, Shame.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com