The lawmaker representing Ohaji/Egbema/Oguta/Oru-West Federal Constituency in Imo State at the House of Representatives, Kingsley Chima, has said the passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill is the greatest achievement of the 9th National Assembly. Chima, who is a member of the Ad Hoc Committee on PIB, said the bill, when it eventually becomes law, would provide an organised governance policy in the petroleum sector. However, the lawmaker representing Esan North-East/Esan South-East Federal Constituency in Edo State, Sergius Ogun, said the PIB was imperfect. Addressing journalists in Abuja on Friday, Chima noted that the PIB would create effective production, proper management, transparency and good governance in the sector. He said, “The greatest achievement of the 9th House of the National Assembly is the passage of the PIB. If you recall, you would agree with me that this bill has been in the cooler for over a decade and what it means is that there may have been issues of disagreements and grey areas; areas that are not actually agreeable by all the stakeholders. “It got to a point where too many people actually invested so much, either regional, political, religious or even economic interests, in trying to adduce their reason for not actually passing the bill. But yesterday (Thursday), the bill was given the greatest ovation anybody could think of in the National Assembly. “An overwhelming 99.9 per cent of the members on the floor – if not 100 per cent – agreed with the content of the bill as actually recommended by the PIB committee. That is to say the 9th Assembly under the leadership of Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila has actually given flesh and life to the corporate governance of our oil sector.” According to the lawmaker, PIB would make the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation accountable to Nigerians as well as make more money available to host communities. Chima said, “Section 53 made mention of having an NNPC that would be accountable to the people of Nigeria. That will guarantee the immediate registration, upon assenting to this bill by the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, having what we will call NNPC Ltd. “It will now be vested with the responsibility of making sure that the profit accruable from explorations in this country will be moved to the Federation Account as quickly as possible. “Section 240 is talking about the host communities and these host communities today are singing with joy because we have given impetus and powers and provided an enabling environment for you to participate in your own resources.” He explained that five per cent of operational cost by oil companies would be exclusively reserved for the host communities and would no longer be sent by proxy. However, Ogun, in an interview with journalists on Friday, criticised the process leading to passage of the PIB, while lauding the bill passage as a “good thing.” According to him, no bill is perfect. The lawmaker congratulated Nigerians, saying the country had lost out on a lot of investments that had gone to other countries. He also expressed hope that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), would assent to the bill and investors who were on the fence would invest in the country. He, however, lamented that there were not enough copies of the PIB, adding that he made his grievance known to the Chairman of the Ad Hoc Committee and Majority Whip, Mohammed Monguno. Ogun said, “As much as I have gone through the bill again and again because I was part of the process that brought it to where it is today, I still needed to have a copy. If whatever we have gone through is different from what was presented, I cannot just go ahead and agree to everything; I just wanted to have a copy and flip through. “That is why I went to protest to the chairman, who was surprised that we all did not have copies, and the deputy chairman told us that within five minutes from when we started, we would all have copies but that did not happen.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com