The House of Representatives has said Nigeria must begin to adopt other sources of energy as the world is shifting from fossil fuel to cleaner, renewable energy. It also stated the need for the country to have a national policy on energy, which drives the power and petroleum sectors. This was made known in Abuja on Wednesday at a public hearing organised by the House Committee on Science and Technology on three bills seeking to amend the Amend Energy Commission of Nigeria Act and create a National Renewable Energy Development Agency. One of the legislation is titled, ‘A Bill for an Act to Amend Energy Commission of Nigeria Act (Cap E10, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004) to Strengthen and to Make it the National Focal Point for New and Renewable Energy, Energy Efficiency and Conservation and Establish the Renewable Energy, Energy Efficiency and Conservation Fund for Related Matters.’ The second legislation is titled, ‘A Bill for an Act to Amend the Energy Commission of Nigeria Act, Cap E10 Lfn, 2004 to Make it Compulsory for the Federal Government Through the Commission to Harness, Explore and Utilise Other Sources of Energy Other Than the Hydro and Gas Energy Sources in Nigeria and for Related Matters.’ ‘A Bill for an Act to Establish the National Renewable Energy Development Agency (Establishment) Bill, 2020’ is the third legislation presented. Speaker of the House, Femi Gbajabiamila, while declaring the hearing open, noted that the bills, individually and collectively, seek to change the national approach to energy generation with the specific intent of ensuring that we embrace renewable energy options as a matter of national policy. Gbajabiamila, who was represented by the Deputy Majority Leader, Peter Akpatason, said, “If we succeed in our present objectives, we have an opportunity to improve energy generation in our country whilst at the same time growing the economy in ways that will provide jobs and create economic opportunities for our citizens. “However, our ability to do any of these depends on how well we can collaborate, first to ensure that the Bills that emerge from this process are well thought out, effectively written and capable of meeting the intended objectives. It also depends on our ability to ensure that the mandates of this Bill are implemented effectively by those to whom we will assign different responsibilities in the final legislation.” Chairman of the House Committee on Science and Technology, Beni Lar, in her welcome address, also noted that the bills independently and collectively recognise the urgent shift in global energy need and in different ways seek to proffer solutions to prioritising cleaner renewable energy sources. Lar said, “In 2015, the United Nation, of which Nigeria is a signatory, adopted 17 goals themed ‘Sustainable Development Goals,’ one of which is Affordable Clean Energy. Following the adoption of SDGs, the global energy focus has shifted from carbon fuels to cleaner renewable sources and the implications are far reaching. “Pertinent is to note that in the near future, carbon fuel will not be attractive as it has been. On the brighter side, Nigeria is abundantly blessed with other cleaner renewable energy sources. May I unequivocally state that the potential of renewable energy is enormous and capable of huge employment generation among our teeming youths, foreign exchange earnings, boosting economic growth and diversification, which is a major thrust of this administration, etc., when properly harnessed and managed.” Lar warned that Nigeria might be stranded in about 30 years as the country is heavily dependent on fossil fuel for energy and revenue. The lawmaker stated that the hearing was crucial to national development, particularly in the face of the global dwindling prospect of carbon fuel, urgent need to provide an enabling environment for youth engagement, global competitiveness, among others. She said, “As a nation, we missed the opportunities of slave trade, colonisation and industrial revolution but can’t afford to toy with the prospects of renewable energy. Together, we can do better. “I, therefore, urge all the stakeholders to participate actively in the discussion, be as objective as possible and consider the interest of the nation first. I assure you all that the House will critically harmonise all the arguments for the benefit of the nation.”