“When we think of food as just a commodity for the market, then we have missed the point” – Nnimmo Bassey, Director, Health of Mother Earth Foundation In 2019, after 10 years of research, field trials and biosafety confirmation, the Federal Government approved the registration and commercial release of a new genetically modified cowpea (aka beans) to Nigerian farmers. The GM bean (christened SAMPEA 20-T) was genetically engineered to resist a ravaging pest known as pod-borers or maruca vitrata. Nevertheless, as the SAMPEA 20-T is now unveiled to farmers this year, I have cause to advise for caution in the widespread commercial production of this new GM beans. The most important factor to be considered is that the genetically modified beans contain the gene known as Cry1AB Bt gene, which was developed by a Western biotech company, Monsanto (now Bayer). Since the first goal of any business concern is to make profit, we have to accept the fact that there is more than meets the eye. Millions of Nigerians eat beans, and the foreign biotechnology companies have long wanted to gain access to the production of this local staple food. Just a couple of years ago, Monsanto lobbyists were banned from entering the European parliament after the multinational refused to attend a parliamentary hearing into allegations of regulatory interference. Members of the European parliament withdrew parliamentary access after the firm shunned a hearing into allegations that it unduly influenced studies into the safety of glyphosate used in its RoundUp weed-killer product. Hence, it is natural to understand that Monsanto could also have influenced most of the studies in this part of the world, where their GM products are “certified perfect” for our own use. If they could be as daring to influence policies and livelihoods in Europe, what prevents them from doing the same here where there is manifest executive impunity and legislative corruption? This is why we must tread with caution. All the so-called scientific endorsements given to the GM beans could as well have been coming from authorities with vested interest. Secondly, it is also a matter of concern that Nigeria is the first country in the world to commercialise GM beans. Field trials have been ongoing in Burkina Faso, Ghana and Malawi and there has been strong opposition to its release. This resistance across African countries buttresses the enormity of the threat genetic modification of food crops poses to our socio-political stability. Likewise, the use of Cry1Ab Bt gene (from Mansanto), the same gene infused into our GM beans, was reportedly discontinued in South Africa because the cultivation of the maize species modified with it led to enormous pest infestation. The truth is that because 80% of GMO crops grown around the world have been engineered for herbicide tolerance – which results in a significant increase in the use of toxic herbicides – experts argue that there is an increased negative impact on the environment and human health. Because of this, several countries, including China, banned the use of GMOs. Among them are France, Germany, Austria, Greece, Hungary, The Netherlands, Denmark, Italy, Algeria, Saudi Arabia, Peru, and others. Thirdly, on the argument that through the GM beans, Nigeria would become a major exporter of beans, we must first of all remember that our beans are presently under a ban from the European Union because of quality and residual chemical issues. So, what difference would the GM beans make, when most of the EU population rejects GMOs? Where then will the envisaged export market for the Bt cowpea be? Ironically, instead of boosting export, the GM crops could negatively affect it, potentially. This is because environmental scientists found that GM crops could contaminate the ecosystem through unforeseen offloading of strange genes on ambient agricultural species. It could also destroy our food production sector, like some other countries are now getting to learn. Mexico realised this and banned GM corn, through an executive order. The South American country now aims to replace some 16 million tonnes of GM yellow corn with new local production by 2024. Victor Suarez, Mexico’s deputy agriculture minister argued that GMO corn and the herbicide glyphosate (from Monsanto) are too dangerous and that local output and sustainable agro-ecological practices must be prioritized. He claimed that GMO corn contaminates Mexico’s native strains of the grain. Also, while citing studies that linked glyphosate to cancer, the Mexican official said the chemical harmed pollinators like bees. I wish that Nigerian public servants would summon the courage and do the needful for our own food security. We can start with the Precautionary Principle, which is part of the Biosafety laws that our country has adopted. It is sad that the government agencies whose duty it is to regulate this highly volatile sector are now mostly promoting the interest of foreign companies. For instance, the National Biosafety Management Agency Act of 2015, amended in 2019, does not give priority to the Precautionary Principle, rather through the amendment, more windows are opened for the invasion of our ecosystem by riskier models of biotechnology and genetic engineering, like SynBio (synthetic biology) and Gene Editing. It is this lack of patriotism that is also behind hasty approvals of GMO products and processes without the input of local stakeholders; and palpable disregard for their health, environmental and socio-economic implications. The precautionary principle, or precautionary approach, is a broad epistemological, philosophical and legal approach to innovations with potential for causing harm when extensive scientific knowledge on the matter is lacking. It emphasizes caution, pausing and review before leaping into new innovations that may prove disastrous. It is actually the factor of safety, which would benefit a developing nation like ours. The international protocol, known as the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety was adopted on January 29, 2000 as a supplementary agreement to the Convention on Biological Diversity (a multilateral treaty for protecting biodiversity) and it entered into force on September 11, 2003. The Cartagena Protocol recognises for the first time in international law that GMOs are inherently different from other naturally occurring organisms and carry special risks and hazards and therefore need to be regulated internationally. It recognises that GMOs may have biodiversity, human health and socio-economic impacts; and that these impacts must be risk assessed. The Protocol contains the precautionary principle as an essential component and reaffirms the precaution language in Principle 15 of the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. The precautionary approach states that where there are threats of serious or irreversible damage, lack of full scientific certainty shall not be used as a reason for postponing cost-effective measures to prevent environmental degradation. The Precautionary Principle calls for the examination of wider range of harms including social and economic ones than traditional risk analysis. The Principle is based on a willingness to take precautions in advance of formal scientific proof, to refrain from actions that might harm the health or the environment, and to shift the burden of proving the safety onto those who want to carry out the action. In this process, issues including the cost effectiveness of the planned action as well as of the non-action, the intrinsic value of biodiversity, and concerns for future generation can be taken into account. Nigeria is the 111th of the 170 countries that have signed the Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety. After signing the dotted lines on May 24, 2000, it entered into force in Nigeria on October 13, 2003. It is then the duty of our government to adapt the Cartagena Protocol to our own peculiarities. Our society is dependent on small holder farmers. The precautionary principle requires that we thoroughly review all concerns before embarking on a wholesale incursion into the sustainability of the common man’s major source of protein: beans. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com