THE Trade Union Congress has criticized the Federal Government over the rising cost of living in the country, saying this has eroded the benefits of the National Minimum Wage, which some states have yet to implement. The congress, while admonishing the government to ‘avoid mortgaging the future of Nigeria’ also frowned on the level of external borrowings, advising the government to harness the country’s natural endowments. National Treasurer of TUC, who doubles as President-General of the Senior Staff Association of Statutory Corporations and Government-Owned Companies, Mohammad Yunusa, stated this in an interview with journalists in Abuja, shortly after the Central Working Committee meeting on Saturday. Yunusa also noted that members of the association condemned in strong terms the spate of kidnappings and the unbridled abductions of school children, students in tertiary institutions and travellers on Nigerian roads. Reading the communique, he jointly signed with General Secretary of SSASCGOC, Ayo Olorunfemi, the labour leader called on the government to look for ways of improving the general welfare of the citizens and Nigerian workers. He explained that this could be achieved through increased economic diversification, enhanced productivity and attraction of direct foreign investments into the country. Yunusa said, “CWC in-session condemns in strong terms the spate of kidnappings and the unbridled abductions of school children, students in tertiary institutions and travellers on Nigerian roads. “We call on all levels of government to rise to their responsibilities of safeguarding the lives and property of citizens. “We all know that a society that is not educated will not prosper because education is the backbone of development and travelling is part of education. “CWC in session is alarmed at the rising cost of living in the country that has made minced meat of the National Minimum Wage, which some states are yet to implement. “CWC in session vehemently detests the heavy government external borrowings to avoid mortgaging the future of Nigeria. We call on the government to look inwards to harness the country’s natural endowments. “The bane of corruption in the society has assumed a hydra-headed level as the future of Nigerians yet unborn is being mortgaged. Where public institutions are looted and monies recovered are not properly accounted for. “Therefore, the Federal Government of Nigeria and all citizens must genuinely confront and defeat corruption through deterrent penalties.” He condemned the threat to national unity by ‘centrifugal and secessionist agitations.’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com