The Campaign for Democracy said it was utterly dismayed and totally condemned “the ugly incident and animalistic behaviour” of security operatives who on Saturday allegedly killed a 14-year-old female trader at Ojota, Lagos, during a protest by Yoruba Nation agitators. Campaign for Democracy, in a statement signed by its Deputy President, Mr Obatungashe Adebayo, pondered when it became a crime to embark on self-determination struggle and peaceful protest when the rights to freedom of assembly were enshrined in both local and international laws. The group said, “We do not know when it became a crime for patriotic Nigerians to exercise such rights in a peaceful manner. We are tempted to believe that the bedlam happening in the North-Eastern, North-Western, and South-Eastern parts of the country is gradually being extended to the South-West, which is the most peaceful region, and where foreign investors hibernate to carry out their businesses. “It will be commendable and more appreciable if our security operatives could channel their energy, and also display the same desperation through which they kill innocent and patriotic Nigerians, to the fight against against bandits and Boko Haram. “The killing of the innocent young girl practically attests to the general belief that the operators of our democracy don’t attach premium to human life.” The Campaign for Democracy, however, called for a thorough investigation into the alleged police shooting of protesters at Ojota which sadly led to the killing of the victim. A yoghurt seller, identified simply as Jumoke, had been reported killed by bullets reportedly fired by a security operative dispersing Yoruba Nation agitators at Ojota, Lagos, on Saturday. It was reported that the girl’s corpse had her stomach ripped open by live bullets. She was reportedly displaying drinks at a shop when the bullets hit her. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com