The Ogun State Judicial Panel of Investigation into Police Brutality and Extrajudicial Killings says it awarded over N218m as compensation to 42 victims or families of victims of brutality and violation of human rights by the police and other security personnel in the state. The chairman of the panel, Justice Solomon Olugbemi, disclosed this on Friday while submitting the panel’s report to Governor Dapo Abiodun at the Executive Council Chamber, Oke Mosan, Abeokuta. Olugbemi said the panel, after its findings, recommended the payment of over N218m in compensation to 42 victims or their families. He added that the panel also made recommendations for the investigation, discipline and where appropriate, prosecution of certain security personnel to serve as a deterrent and in the interest of justice He revealed that the panel received a total of 106 petitions, out of which 58 were treated and the remaining 48 were either withdrawn, rejected or abandoned wholly or half-way by the petitioners. The panel chairman said, “The 289-page report captured the testimonies and evidence of gory details of torture, unjustifiable shootings, inhumane treatment and other forms of human rights abuses leading to brain damage, spinal cord injuries, permanent disability, death, loss of means of livelihood, unlawful seizure of personal properties and various forms of atrocities.” He also disclosed that most of the police officers that the panel came across were found to be grossly deficient in knowledge and professional training required for efficiency in the policing duty, urging government to put machinery in place to address the situation. Receiving the report, the governor promised to implement the panel’s recommendations towards having a peaceful society that would engender more robust relationship between the people and security agencies. Abiodun appreciated the panel members for their selfless efforts and contributions towards the successful completion of the task. He said, “I believe that the implementation of this report will end the gory experience often encountered by residents of the state. “It is important for all of us as a people and security agencies to ensure and foster a mutually beneficial relationship.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com