The Ogun State Government has announced the installation of automated gates at the Arakanga dam in Abeokuta which it says will provide effective distribution of clean water for local residents. In a statement attributed to the state governor, Dapo Abiodun, who was on an inspection tour of the Arakanga Old Water Works, the government disclosed that the completion and installation of the five ‘Barage Gates’ would allow for proper damming and effective distribution of drinkable water to the people. Abiodun noted that the rehabilitation of the waterworks was in tandem with his administration’s social welfare and wellbeing pillar, which has provision of potable water as a major component. He said, “We have slated our water provision across the state as our post mid-term agenda, in line with our provision of infrastructure. “Under our social welfare and wellbeing pillar, water features prominently and this was our immediate intervention. “We are also providing water in our major cities such as Sagamu, Ilaro, Ota and Ijebu-Ode which had been scheduled for post May 29, 2021. So, you will begin to see all our initiatives in this direction. “We are looking at the distribution, reticulation and in no time, I’m sure that the good people of Abeokuta and the people of the state will begin to enjoy water supply that is clean, adequate, efficient and reliable, just like any other city worldwide.” Abiodun explained that the ‘Five Gates’, which allows for proper damming of water when Ogun-Oshun River Basin fails to release enough water was now being operated automatically as against the manual system in the past. “This is the same water that serves the Lagos State Water Works. Without this, the Adiyan and Akute Water Works will suffer. “This is one of the steps we took before even formalising our relationship with Lagos, and that speaks of the collaboration and cooperation that we have with Lagos State. “The original gates were operated manually, the new gates are electronic and automatic.” He further assured residents of Iberekodo and Arakanga in Abeokuta North Local Government Area of the state of his administration’s determination to complete the road in the areas, which was started but abandoned by his predecessor. In his remarks, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Water Resources, Kunle Ottun, disclosed that the gate dam stood at nineteen feet, adding that its installation would aid the flow of clean water to residents of the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com