Arsenal have agreed a deal to sign Brighton centre-back Ben White for a fee believed to be around £50m. Sky Sports News reports Arsenal had a £40m bid rejected in June with another move for a price of £47m subsequently rejected. But with discussions continuing into July, the two Premier League clubs seem to have reached a settlement. There is still work to be done before the transfer can be finalised. The 23-year-old is expected to take a medical when he returns from holiday on July 26. After leaving Southampton in 2014, White secured a move to Brighton and finally made his mark on the south coast following loan spells with Newport County, Peterborough United and Leeds United. After breaking into the first team at the Amex Stadium he impressed last season in the Premier League in the heart of defence and was selected by Gareth Southgate for England’s Euro 2020 campaign. He also helped Brighton survive relegation and finish 16th in the top flight with the joint-best defence in the bottom half of the league (46 goals conceded). The Gunners are looking to bolster their defence after finishing eighth in the Premier League and missing out on European football for the first time since the 1994-95 season. Meanwhile, Arsenal defender Hector Bellerin has told Arsenal he wants a new challenge. Talks continue with Inter over a transfer, and while Arsenal want a permanent deal – or at least a loan with an obligation to buy – the Serie A champions prefer a loan with an option to buy. Bellerin would welcome the move to Italy, and with his Arsenal contract up in 2023, he will not be extending his stay at the Emirates. The 26-year-old is with the Arsenal squad in Scotland and came off the bench in Tuesday’s pre-season defeat at Hibernian. Albert Sambi Lokonga’s move from Anderlecht to Arsenal will be finalised once the player is out of quarantine. Lokonga is in London after a deal was agreed last week. He will need to take final medical checks before the deal is officially announced, with the fee believed to be around £15m.