A student at the Delta State University, Abraka, Stephen Odje, of the Department of Medical Biochemistry, has been shot dead by gunmen. PUNCH Metro gathered that the incident occurred on Sunday around 9.30pm while the deceased was on his way to Abraka to resume the 2020/2021 academic session. It was learnt that apart from Odje, who lost his life during the attack that took place at Oria, a community that is less than 15 minutes drive to the university community, Mr Divine Omajuwa of Geology Department and Miss Hamza Jennifer of Pharmacology Department in DELSU, who were also returning to school, were whisked away by the gunmen. Why Odje was shot dead on the spot is still unknown. The Dean of Students’ Affairs of the varsity, Prof. Chukwujindu Iwegbue, in a statement, called on security agencies and the public to step up actions to ensure the immediate release and rescue of the kidnapped students. He insisted that the perpetrators of the crime against the innocent students must be brought to book. Also, the Students Union Government described as “horrifying and unacceptable” the murder and kidnap of the students. The SUG President, Mukolo Solomon, in a statement, warned that the incident “may lead to breakdown of law and order within and around Abraka and its environs and the entire state in general if urgent steps are not taken to effect the immediate and unconditional release of the kidnapped victims.” Solomon issued a 24-hour ultimatum to security agencies to effect the release of the kidnapped students. “Failure to do so will result in students’ unrest within the Delta State University in particular and the entire state in general,” he added. The state acting Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Edafe Bright, confirmed the incident, adding that he did not have enough details. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com