Recently, a video showing Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, confronting a poorly written script leaked and generated some sensation. While the experience indicates some lesson in governance and professionalism, the grammatical questions the governor raises in the video deserve to be put in perspective. The reason is that, beyond the controversy it generated, learning one thing or the other from it may not be a bad idea. This becomes more important when one considers the fact that the grammatical mishaps are relatively common – and that seems to be the main reason the scriptwriters committed them in the first instance. For the purpose of those who have not watched the video, I should note that it captures Abiodun ‘on set’, preparing for a TV broadcast. He, in the video, finds some of the statements structurally imbalanced and this really slows down the process. Gerunds Gerunds are -ing verbs that are used as nouns. Since words are classified into parts of speech on the basis of the grammatical roles they play, such terms are no more called verbs but gerunds.  By being so, they are thus classified as nouns. For instance, in the following sentences, ‘going’ and ‘eating’ are verbs – present continuous: He is going now. They are eating the apple. But in the ones below, the words no more perform the function of a verb. Rather, they perform that of a noun and are therefore called gerunds: Going there is important. The doctor recommended eating twice a day. While gerunds can serve as both the subject and object, one of their basic characteristics is that they always come in the -ing form. This also demands that in many contexts that verbs have to be used as nouns, it will be wrong to use a verb in the present tense form. As a result, the following statements are faulty: Go there is a must. The doctor recommended to eat twice daily. Back to the governor’s instance, he did not have to teach his aides such a feature of gerunds during the recording, but he made a point that showed that he really understands the concept. Here is the statement he would not accept: It is an opportunity we are committed to harness. In the video, he insists that the use of ‘harness’ in the clause is wrong. According to him, the correct structure is: It is an opportunity we are committed to harnessing. And the governor is right! A lot of people make the mistake involved in the contested sentence. For instance, in letter writing, they write ‘I look forward to meet you’. No. What is needed is the gerund form of the verb, ‘meet’. It should thus be ‘I look forward to meeting you.’ To appreciate why you need to stick to the -ing form in ‘We are committed to harnessing’, think about how terribly bad the following sound: They are bent on go tomorrow. She insisted on see him later. I am interested in sweep the floor. What is required in the sentences are gerunds (going, seeing and sweeping): They are bent on going tomorrow. She insisted on seeing him later. I am interested in sweeping the floor. So, watch the way you handle the ‘we are committed to harnessing’ constructions. Note, however, that if you do not want use a gerund in the context, you can opt for a noun or noun phrase. Consider this: She is committed to develop the area. (Wrong) She is committed to developing the area. (Correct) She is committed to the development of the area. (Correct) Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com