A missionary school, Samuel Bill Secondary school, located in Abak Local government area of Akwa Ibom State will reopen its gates to students after being shut for upward of 33-years. The school owned by the Qua Iboe church, which later split to United Evangelical church, was shut during the students demonstration which erupted in 1989. Our correspondent reports that the school will be reopened in partnership with both the Qua Iboe and United Evangelical church, which were the two factions of the original Qua Iboe that founded the school. The President of the Alumni association, Mr. Churchill Udoh in a statement on Tuesday after the reunion ceremony in Uyo, said a lot of renovation work had been carried out in the school preparatory to reopening of the institution in September, next year. He said “The Samuel Bill Secondary School, Abak will reopen its gate to students come September 2022,.The Qua Iboe Church owned school was shut down in 1989 after students’ demonstration and since then the doors have remained closed. “A lot of work had been done towards rebuilding infrastructure and putting the right structures in place to reopen the school. And this will be in partnership with both the Qua Iboe Church and United Evangelical Church, who are the two factions of the original Qua Iboe Church that berthed the school” Udoh explained that the school operated for only ten years since 1979 adding that due to the quality of training, many graduates of the school are today in various leadership positions in government, business, professional practice and church administration. He said the vision of the alumni to reopen the school was to continue the tradition of excellence, train children to lead in the next generation and compete as the one of the best schools in Africa. The statement added that during the reunion ceremony, Rev. Dr. Samuel Ebukiba, the Conference Chairman of the United Evangelical Church was inducted as Honorary Member, Samuel Bill Old Boys Association, and the awardee was decorated by Rev. Ekpedeme Effanga, Conference Chairman, Qua Iboe Church, in a historic warm embrace. Rev. Effanga is an Honorary member of the association having being earlier inducted in 2017. Both churches assured the alumni of their support to the new school.