THE Peoples Democratic Party has opened talks with five Senior Advocates of Nigeria over its planned legal challenge against the defection of the Zamfara State Governor, Bello Matawalle, who defected from the party to join the All Progressives Congress on Tuesday. A highly placed member of the PDP National Working Committee who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitive nature of the issue, said, “We are already putting our documents together.” The source further said, “Five Senior Advocates have made contact and are prepared to take the case for free if need be in order to save democracy. This is a classical case; it will enrich our jurisprudence and enhance democracy. In a matter of days, you will hear from us.” Meanwhile, Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, said Matawalle’s credibility was at stake following his defection. Wike said this during the inauguration of reconstructed Rumuigbo, Chief Johnson Amadi, Igbodo, Finima, Rumuopareli, Bauchi, Ohia and Isaac Boro streets in Old Government Residential Area, Port Harcourt, late on Tuesday. This was contained in a statement issued by Special Assistant to the Rivers State Governor on Media, Kelvin Ebiri, titled, ‘Metawalle’s intergrity, credibility at stake – Gov Wike’ with a sub title ‘says cultists now active in politics’ and made available to newsmen in Port Harcourt on Wednesday. The statement said “People must have respect for themselves. There are things I cannot do for the sake of my children. In 2019, Matawalle said I will never leave PDP. I will never disappoint PDP. “If I disappoint the PDP, I will never have peace in my life. Today, what has happened?  Is everything politics? It is not true. Everything cannot be politics. Your credibility, your integrity is important in life.  I will never betray my people.” The governor said only spineless governors and politicians will succumb to threats and blackmail of the ruling APC to join the party or risk persecution. According to him, only governors who cannot perform decamp to APC, primarily to seek protection from a party that is allegedly fighting corruption. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com