Big Brother Naija stars, Erica Nweledim, Ka3na Jones, and others have listed their achievements one year after they featured on the season 5 edition of the show tagged ‘Lockdown’. The ex-housemates began their journey to fame on July 19, 2020, when they became contestants on the show and one year later, they have taken to social media to share their achievements. Erica took to her Instagram page on Monday to tell her story to fame. She said, “This time last year, I had no idea I was going to have a fan base like this. All I wanted was for the world to see me because I knew all it took was for people to just know of me; my talent and hardwork was going to speak for me. “Exactly a year later, I’ve achieved much more than I could have imagined! Movies in the cinema, tv, and Netflix, my own reality show on MTV base, properties, investments, appearances in different countries, my fave on billboards and commercials for top brands, my own business, my charity work, 2 million followers on Instagram, verified on Twitter with more than half a million followers. I’m also the 5th African celebrity to be made a Twitter topic!” Ka3na also wrote on Instagram, “Happy one year anniversary to the ‘KA3NA BRAND’. Brand ambassador/Brand influencer. On the 19th of July 2020, I stepped on the stage that has positively impacted my life. “To me, two weeks was enough! One year after, I am here soaring. #protocolbreaker. I am grateful for the platform.” Another ex-housemate, Ozoemena Joseph also wrote, “On the 19th night of July. Pacing up and down my hotel room, black cap, black kaftan, black shoes. Arriving at the venue asking what HM1 means then I’m told, ‘you’re opening the show’. “Not knowing what to expect but all I can say is that this date 19th July would always mean the world to me. “In a year ravished by the pandemic my life changed with a smile put on my heart and my face forever and with this I pray that everyone who lost loved ones during this period gets a smile put on their faces as God has done to mine.” Making reference to when he left the show, Kiddwaya tweeted on Sunday, “I’ve been in this industry 10 months. That’s around 300 days, 438,000 minutes. My brand has reached 3 continents, 5+ international deals, and counting. “Every blessing I prayed for fell right down onto me. Your blessing is also around the corner. Have faith. Trust the process.” The season 6 edition of the Big Brother Naija show kicks off on the 24th of July, 2021.