A Nigerian lady with the Twitter handle Blessedcindy0 has deactivated her account a day after she recounted her ordeal in a den of kidnappers. Cindy on Wednesday tweeted that she was kidnapped in a bus on June 23 in Enugu. According to her, she was travelling to Rivers State. Attached to Cindy’s deleted tweets was an image in which one of her eyes was swollen shut. The left side of her face also appeared bloated, presumably from physical assault. According to her, she had boarded a bus at “7 Market Road near Chisco Motors.” She claimed that she had settled for the bus — which, unknown to her, was a trap — because a Chisco Motors vehicle was unavailable at the time. Cindy said that she became unconscious as she sat in the bus and that she woke up to find herself and six others bound to chairs in a “bungalow.” She claimed that the armed kidnappers proceeded to ask each of the six captives for the phone numbers of their relatives, from whom they demanded ransoms. According to Cindy, the kidnappers reached out to her sister and demanded a ransom of N3m. Cindy said that the abductors killed two of the captives and hacked their body parts — an unidentified lady and a man named Philip. She said that Philip had told the kidnappers that he did not have a relative whom he could call to pay ransom. She said that the other three captives were set free after their relatives each paid N2m on their behalf. Cindy attributed the fact of her making it out alive to her sister’s cooperation with the abductors, but added that she was beaten and raped by two of her abductors every night since her kidnapping. She wrote: “My sister was picking up calls even after a week and cooperating with them. [She] had to sell some things and borrow up and down to pay [N2 million] and on top of that, right from 26th every night I eat beating, and get raped by two of them.” Cindy said that the kidnappers dropped her off at “4-Corners near Agbani at night” after her sister had paid her ransom. She added that her abductors withdrew N268,000 from her bank account. She said that as the kidnappers drove her to the drop-off spot, they encountered some policemen who failed to inspect the vehicle in which she’d been stashed. Cindy, in her tweet, said that she was currently at a hospital and was heavily traumatised. “Nigeria has failed me,” she tweeted. “I sleep and wake up with this traumatic experience and feel like committing suicide. I am scattered.” Since sharing her ordeal on the microblogging platform, many members of the public have expressed their sympathies for her and bemoaned the surging rate of insecurity in the country. She has since deactivated her account. Before then, efforts to reach Cindy by our correspondent had been unsuccessful, as she did not respond to her DM.