The National Assembly on Friday pledged to initiate an amendment to the Pension Act. The federal Parliament said the amendment would make clerks to the state houses of assembly enjoy full salary payment upon retirement like the permanent secretaries in the executive arm of government. The Clerk to the National Assembly, Mr Amos Ojo, stated this at the conference of the Forum of Clerks of Nigeria Legislatures held in Abuja. Ojo said the proper thing was to ensure that clerks of state assemblies enjoy same ‘terminal benefits’ like permanent secretaries in the various ministries, departments and agencies of government. He said the pay parity would be achieved through an amendment to the Pension Act. He specifically lamented the non-inclusion of FOCON members as beneficiaries of the full salary payment as ‘terminal benefits’ Ojo said, “The Pension Act does not make provision for ‘terminal benefits’ for clerks of Nigerian Legislatures as it is being enjoyed by permanent secretaries and Head of Service in the Executive arm of Government. “Who says that there is no absolute need for us to make a case of urgent amendment, of the Pension Act to accommodate FOCON members? “It is a fact that some states in the federation have put in place a policy of paying their ‘retired clerks’ full salary for life, as it is being enjoyed by some permanent secretaries in the Executive arm of Government. “Therefore, we must be reminded on the need for us to use this gathering, to urge states that have not started this policy to do so without delay,” he said. Ojo urged the participants who are clerks to the 36 state houses of assembly to see themselves as critical engines that must constantly oil the huge machine of legislative business in Nigeria. He said, “In this regard, we must not only sit up but must put on our thinking caps to scientifically exploit the gains of the recently passed financial autonomy in order to advance our democratic representation across the board in Nigeria.” The Chairperson of Clerk to State Houses of Assembly, Mrs Lyna Ocholor reiterated calls for amendment to the Act to make her colleagues at par with permanent secretaries in the executive in terms of ‘life salaries.’ Ocholor who is also the Clerk of the Delta State House of Assembly noted that the Pension Act amendment was key to enjoying life after retirement.