The Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has said local inhabitants of places with mineral resources should be the first beneficiaries of the mining activities in their communities. According to a statement from the Ekiti State Government on Thursday, Fayemi said this during a lecture he delivered at the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development’s Strategic Engagement virtual meeting. Fayemi said, “As we all know, all mining is local. Local inhabitants of communities at the grassroots should therefore always be the first to benefit from mining activities in their domains, including the generation of employment opportunities, the reduction of poverty, and the promotion of rural economies. “In keeping with the provisions of the roadmap, we must continue to ensure grassroots stakeholders are well-positioned to benefit optimally from mining activities going on in their respective communities.” He added, “Conversely, the local communities are the ones primarily affected by the negative impacts of illegal mining, harmful mining practices, and the other legacy challenges the industry has been working to address, and are therefore best positioned to lead the efforts in addressing them. “They are the ones we must empower to help in eradicating exploitative labour practices and gender inequities in the industry, promoting environmental justice and sustainability in mining operations. “We should also ensure safety and security in mining communities in the country, and protect our commonwealth from economic saboteurs.” The governor, who was Minister of Mines and Steel Development between 2015 and 2018 commended the implementation of the Roadmap for the Growth and Development of the Nigerian Mining Sector by the ministers and added that the state-supported the ministry’s third edition of the Annual Council on Mining and Mineral Resources Development in November 2019. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com