The Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdulrasheed Akanbi, has urged the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to forgive Yoruba rights activist, Sunday Igboho. The PUNCH reported that the Department of State Services raided the Ibadan residence of the activist last week during which two persons were killed and others arrested. [READ ALSO] Full list: Buhari appoints 42 traditional rulers as varsity chancellors The DSS, while parading those arrested, stated that Igboho managed to escape due to the gun duel that ensued between his men and operatives of the Service during the raid. He was immediately declared wanted and advised to turn himself in as he won’t have a hiding place. Reacting, the Oluwo, in his letter titled, ‘Igboho Saga: Oluwo Intervenes, Writes Buhari,’ advised the President to slow down the security trail on Igboho. The monarch, in the letter signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Alli Ibraheem, stated that he will bring Igboho for a peace talk at the appropriate time. The letter read in part, “Sunday Igboho earned his popularity as an activist whose joy is to liberate the cheated. He started as such and grew with it. His strategy is not known to me because I’m not in his camp. Whenever I’ve information about his move, I do call him to order. He visited my palace sometime in 2018. I give pieces of advice when sought. Instead of Igboho to distinctively differentiate between agitation towards government and inter groups activism, he failed. At a point, he abused stakeholders with spurious allegations. I was the first on the list for drumming support for one Nigeria. As a father, I’ve personally forgiven him. And I’m personally beseeching your Excellency as the number one citizen of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to demonstrate your magnanimity by forgiven our promising son, Chief Adeyemo Sunday Igboho. “He is a novice in handling issues against the government. He is a gift to us in Yoruba. He has pledged his readiness to listen to us. I appeal to your Excellency to slow down the security trail on Sunday Igboho. I have the assurance adhering to this piece will go a long way in strengthening the unity of Nigeria. I promise your Excellency that Igboho will mind his steps henceforth. He has suffered a lot. He would step down agitations. I will bring him for a peace talk at the appropriate time. “Liberal struggles are won on intelligentsia merit. Arsenals without strategy is a defeated battle. These and many more, I supposed he has learnt and ready to mend his way. Nigeria is an indivisible entity that cannot be torn overnight for whatever reason. Let’s forgive to move on and up. The strength is not only in diversity but also in forgiveness. “In conclusion, we have seen the handwriting. When government speaks different languages, the wise ruminates and take caution. I commend your efforts geared towards combating crimes, checkmating banditry and curtailing criminalities, and your vigorous fight against corruption. Most importantly, your commitment to infrastructural growth is unequaled. One Nigeria, great future.”