Vehicle maintenance programmes are highly important in any business that relies on operating commercial vehicles and whose uninterrupted functioning keeps the businesses stable and profitable. When making your checklist, consider these four fundamental elements that determine how successful your vehicle maintenance will be. Preventive maintenance checklist A preventive maintenance programme helps fleet owners get the most value and service out of their vehicle. This type of commercial vehicle maintenance tries to anticipate issues before they occur and plan how they should be fixed before they turn severe. Preventive maintenance checklist and programme should, therefore, include the manufacturer’s recommendations on vehicle maintenance and the approximate time when persons responsible should perform it. The rest of the truck maintenance checklist will differ depending on the type of vehicle and its specifications. Some of the typical items on preventive maintenance checklist include: Oil changes Filter changes Components tightening Tuning of the engine Brake fixing Tire rotation Lubrication Radiator maintenance Predictive/demand maintenance checklist Predictive/demand maintenance is the type of maintenance that transportation businesses perform only when there is a need for it. This means replacing or fixing certain truck parts only when they break down and stop working properly. This can also happen after an independent inspection that determines the wear and tear situation on a truck. Predictive/demand maintenance forms usually include items such as: Replacing light bulbs Replacing springs Putting new window glass Retuning gauges Placing new window glasses Replacing seat cushions New engine and transmission New batteries Replacing corroded or deteriorated structures Reactive/crisis maintenance checklist Crisis maintenance usually occurs when preventive and demand maintenance slip by and never happen. This is the type of maintenance that is performed when a truck breaks down on the road due to the sudden failure of one or many components. This usually means sending a replacement vehicle so that the driver can continue his trip to the delivery point and dispatching a mechanic to repair the vehicle on the spot. Fleet owners should try and avoid having to go through crisis maintenance because they incur the additional cost of: The time needed to organise necessary repair procedure and reroute deliveries Driver’s downtime Hire of an outside mechanic, if the business doesn’t have one in-house Purchase of new parts to replace damaged ones with. Scheduled maintenance can prevent breakdowns from occurring, which minimises repair downtime and assures the vehicle is operating securely at all times. Preventive maintenance form should include a checklist that helps identify all the aspects of the vehicle that a driver and a team of mechanics must address. The most effective and thorough checklists contain these items: Main technical inspection Fluids and oils inspection Brakes inspection Lights inspection Wheels and rims inspection Interior inspection Windshield, back windows and mirror inspection A truck maintenance checklist should also include the time between servicing and inspection. The manufacturer should provide a vehicle owner manual with the recommendation for intervals between service and inspection. What are the benefits of preventive vehicle maintenance Forms? Commercial vehicle maintenance is crucial for ensuring that the transportation of goods, products and services goes as planned. The downtime of an inoperative vehicle will incur big costs and a loss of revenue, not to mention the reduced safety of vehicle drivers and passengers on the road. Having a maintenance requirement checklist that drivers and the rest of personnel can check before they transport the goods is recommended by the Federal Road Safety Corp. The business benefits of following these preventive maintenance vehicle checklists are: Reduction of maintenance and repair costs Reduction of operating costs due to fewer breakdowns Increase in vehicle’s residual value and extension of the vehicle’s life Protection of your assets Improved vehicle fuel consumption and reduction of fuel cost Reduction of vehicle downtime Increase of customer and client satisfaction due to on-time deliveries There are also road safety benefits that include: Increased driver safety Improvement of driver’s working environment Greater passenger safety Greater road safety Meeting standards required by law. P1171: Fuel system lean during acceleration Meaning Fuel system lean during acceleration is the generic description for the P1171 code, but the manufacturer may have a different description for your model and year vehicle. Possible causes Plugged air intake or exhaust Plugged fuel filter Fuel pump failure Injector failure P1172: Rear A/F sensor bank 1 sensor 1 circuit out of range high Meaning The air/fuel ratio (A/F) sensor 1 is installed in the exhaust system and detects oxygen content in the exhaust gas. The A/F sensor transmits output voltage to the engine control module. A heater for the sensor element is embedded in the A/F sensor (sensor 1). It is activated and heats the sensor to stabilise and speed the detection of oxygen content by controlling current flowing through the heater. An increase in the current levels off as the applied voltage to the element electrode reaches a certain range because the amount of oxygen which is led through the diffusion layer is limited. The current amperage is proportional to oxygen content in the exhaust gas, so the air/fuel ratio is detected by the measurement of the current amperage. The ECM compares a set target air/fuel ratio with the detected air/fuel ratio and controls the fuel injection timing. If the A/F sensor (sensor 1) voltage is low, the air/fuel ratio is lean, and the ECM uses A/F feedback control to issue a rich command. If the A/F sensor (sensor 1) voltage is high, the air/fuel ratio is rich, and the ECM uses A/F feedback control to issue a lean command. Possible causes Faulty air/fuel ratio bank 1 sensor 1 Air/fuel ratio bank 1 sensor 1 harness is open or shorted Air/fuel ratio bank 1 sensor 1 circuit poor electrical connection P1173: Front heated O2 sensor no inversion Meaning Front heated O2 sensor no inversion is the generic description for the P1173 code, but the manufacturer may have a different description for your model and year vehicle. Possible causes Exhaust leak Faulty front heated O2 sensor Front heated O2 Sensor harness is open or shorted Front heated O2 Sensor circuit poor electrical connection P1174: Fuel trim cylinder balance bank 1 Meaning The fuel trim cylinder balance diagnostic detects a rich or lean cylinder to cylinder air/fuel ratio imbalance in each bank. The diagnostic monitors the pre-catalyst heated oxygen sensor (HO2S) signal’s frequency and amplitude characteristics by calculating an accumulated voltage over a predetermined sample period. An imbalance is indicated when multiple samples of the accumulated voltage are consistently higher than the desired value. Tech notes This sometimes is triggered by clogged fuel injectors. Start by using high octane fuel and/or fuel additive to clean injectors. If problem persists fuel injectors may need to be replaced. Possible causes Clogged Fuel Injectors Faulty oxygen sensor Ignition problem Fuel injection problem Engine mechanical condition P1175: Fuel trim cylinder balance bank 2 Meaning The fuel trim cylinder balance diagnostic detects a rich or lean cylinder to cylinder air/fuel ratio imbalance in each bank. The diagnostic monitors the pre-catalyst heated oxygen sensor (HO2S) signal’s frequency and amplitude characteristics by calculating an accumulated voltage over a predetermined sample period. An imbalance is indicated when multiple samples of the accumulated voltage are consistently higher than the desired value. Tech notes This sometimes is triggered by clogged fuel injectors. Start by using high octane fuel and/or fuel additive to clean injectors. If problem persists fuel injectors may need to be replaced. Possible causes Clogged fuel injectors Faulty oxygen sensor Ignition problem Fuel injection problem Engine mechanical condition. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com