Group Managing Director, OrgLearning Consult, Dr Maria Onyia has said allowing learners to participate in quiz competition helps to widen their knowledge and challenges them to perform excellently. Onyia said this at the 10th edition of the Blazers competition which was held at the Drew-Philips Tech Magnet Academy, Enugu. She said, “Quiz competitions make the students read wide. They see the need to pay attention to, and learn from everything around them. “They also develop competitive spirit; children like to participate in competitions and win. The joy that comes with winning the prize is priceless. So, they want to study very hard, read wide so that they can win the prize. “They get to meet students from other schools who challenge them to up their game in academics. “Competitions also bring realities to the minds of children. For instance, they understand speed and accuracy much better. It is very painful to know the answers to all the questions but realise you couldn’t finish because you were not fast enough.” She also explained the competition was OrgLearning Consult’s way of giving back to the society, adding that it was organised for  the graduating pupils. The Director of Programs, OrgLearning Consult, Mr Samson Osagiede, said being the maiden edition in Enugu State, they decided to make the questions as easy as possible so that the participants would not get bored. “Though nobody scored up to 80 per cent, we commend the efforts of the winners of the Blazers Competition organised and hosted by Drew-Philips Academy. “First position is Zoe Nwaubani (78.67 per cent); joint second position is Ochei Emmanuel (76 per cent); Muoghalu Chidiebube (76 per cent); joint third position, Ezinwa Mitchelle(73.33 per cent) “Ozumba Kenechukwu (73.33 per cent) Iwuagwu Shawn (73.33 per cent)”. Brand Manager/Business Development Coordinator, OrgLearning Consult, Mr Chigozie Ntamere, explained that the participants were students in Grade five and six, saying the competition consisted of 15 challenging questions, from; Mathematics, English Language, Science & Inventions, Sports & Entertainment and General Knowledge. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com