One person has been confirmed dead in a fatal accident around the Government Secondary School on Ilorin-Old Jebba Road, Kwara State. PUNCH Metro learnt that the accident, which happened on Monday, involved two tricycles and an escort vehicle. Though the Kwara State Command of the Nigeria Police Force said the accident did not record any fatality, the Federal Road Safety Corps confirmed that one person died. An eyewitness, however, claimed that three passengers from the two commercial tricycles died at the accident scene. He said, “A government escort vehicle overrode two tricycles in the crash, which occurred at the Government Secondary School, Fate Junction, along the Ministry of Agric, Ilorin.” The witness, who did not want to be identified, said the accident was caused by speeding and speed violation on the part of the escort driver. The state Police Public Relations officer, SP Ajayi Okasanmi, in a statement, said the accident involved a Hilux vehicle belonging to a private agro-industrial company and three tricycles. “The accident occurred when the driver of the Hilux van, who was coming from the same direction as the tricycles, lost control and collided with the tricycles, which resulted in a serious crash leading to injuries on Yusuf Kadiri, Hussein Seriki and Latifat Kamarudeen. “The victims have been taken to UITH Okeoyi, Ilorin, for medical attention and are positively responding to treatment. “This press statement becomes necessary to correct some erroneous information making the rounds on the health condition of the victims; none of the victims died, and the vehicle involved in the accident belongs to Hillcrest Agro industrial Company, Offa, and not to the police or the government,” Okasanmi said. The Kwara State Sector Commander of the FRSC, Jonathan Owoade, who confirmed the incident, said two yellow commercial tricycles and one black escort Toyota Hilux were involved in the crash. The FRSC boss also said one female adult passenger died and one minor severely injured. He said the two victims were rushed to a private hospital near the accident scene, adding that while the female adult gave up the ghost, the minor was undergoing treatment at the hospital. Our correspondent learnt that angry tricycle riders in the area demonstrated at the scene, beating up every uniform man in sight. Security men deployed in the scene were said to have shot into the air to scare away the protesters and restore calm. The FRSC sector commander said, “Shortly before our patrol vehicle returned from the hospital, a report was received that a group of tricycle riders were beating up uniform men around and policemen who came for the rescue were shooting to scare them away. The marshals on ground were instructed to leave the scene immediately. “The angry reaction of the tricycle riders was directed at security personnel because the escort van carrying flashers that crushed the two tricycles was suspected to belong to security outfits. The rescue team could not gather other necessary information because of the tense situation at the crash scene.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com