The Delta State Police Command has declared war against cultism and other criminal activities in the state following the arrest of over 28 suspected cultists who were in the process of getting initiated into the Aiye confraternity in Ogume community, Ogume Local Government Area of the state. The Commissioner of Police, Mohammed Ali, had mandated all Divisional Police Officers and tactical commanders to embark on continuous raids of cultists’ hideouts, saying Delta State under his watch would never be a safe haven for cultists. According to a statement on Saturday by the acting Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Edafe Bright, on Saturday, operatives of the SACU, acting on intelligence gathered, stormed a bush at night and arrested the suspects alongside other eight members of the cult group in Warri. According to the statement, further investigation and the confessional statement of one of the suspects led to the  arrest of one Lucky Eluagu, alias DJ Lucky, 27, in Okpe  local government area. The suspect confessed being a valid member of Aiye confraternity. Similarly, during the week, the DPO, Oviwan-Aladja Division, acted on a distress call that some armed robbers were at a bush bar in Otor-Udu. “Consequently, the DPO swiftly deployed patrol teams to the scene. On sighting the police, they attempted to escape in a motorcycle, but they were chased by the patrol teams. Two of the suspects escaped while one was arrested. “On Searching, the suspect, Umukoro Collins, had one locally- made pistol and one live cartridge. Manhunt for the two suspects at large is ongoing,” the statement read. A similar cult initiation process was foiled on July 3 when the SACU operatives, acting on intelligence gathered that there would be cult initiation in the Ogume community, stormed the bush at night, and successfully arrested over 28 suspects. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com