Understandably, insurance and culture usually do not fit well due to countering views and approaches to the Nigerian way of life. These cultural beliefs prescribe leaving life risks in the hands of the all-protecting divine and supernatural being. These beliefs are at variance with insurance, which encourages you to bet on these risks so that you have succour should it occur. However, it is important to note that people want the same things despite these differences – a better life for themselves, loved ones and the opportunity to show love to people that matter. Africans are deeply rooted in culture; we live, speak, act, and show it in all we do. It permeates everything we do, from greetings to reverence or honour, especially to families and loved ones. As Africans, our reverence for family transcends beyond life together. The love for family is so strong and deeply rooted that even the indomitability of death cannot deflate it. We are very keen to showcase reverence to our loved ones lost to death, that the African would go all out, sparing no expense, to give a befitting funeral. We commemorate our life milestones and celebrate life in death, even in the moment of grief. According to an interesting report by CNN titled, “The log goodbye: Why funerals are big in Ghana”, “Ghanaians may spend as much money on funerals as on weddings, sometimes even more.” The report estimated that the “average funeral should cost between $15,000-$20,000 (roughly N7,000,000 to N10,000,00).” This culture is not any different in South Africa. Reports suggest that the average funeral cost is about R26,875 (roughly N1,000,000). Similarly, in Kenya, a funeral cost starts from about $800. However, in Africa, where even the highest minimum wage is less than $200, grieving families are constrained to take local loans to put together these befitting funerals. In addition to the weight of these costs, they also come at an unplanned and ill-prepared time, leaving the grieving families numb with despair and debt. But then that is the nature of death. While many are beginning to dread this unknown hour and the heavyweight culture, Leadway Assurance Company Limited, Nigeria’s foremost insurer, decided to create an insurance policy that ensures the preservation of the beautiful African culture. A plan that helps eliminate the costs headaches and enables hosting these befitting farewell events for demised loved ones, just the way we desire them. Leadway Family Benefit Plan Plus – for the culture Knowing that the death of a loved one is an unpredictable event, Leadway created the Family Benefit Plan Plus – FBPP (a.k.a funeral insurance) to help families have a backup plan that shields them from unnecessary bruhaha when the death bell sounds. So, the FBPP policy was designed with our culture, firmly rooted in reverence for the demised, in mind. The Leadway Family Benefit Plan Plus puts the minds of families at peace, knowing that whatever time the moment for a final and eternal goodbye comes, you can call on the organisation for the funds to host a befitting farewell for the lost loved one; get groceries for the grieving family and upkeep post-funeral. It is that simple. The policy covers you, your parents, spouse, and parents-in-law that should the inevitable happen, there is no reason to run into debt to give that desired farewell for the one you love. Leadway Assurance has the back of the bereaved so that they can grieve in peace. For the sake of avoiding “See Finish” The pidgin English term “see finish” simply means “to see it all”. It figuratively translates to leaving your dignity completely naked for all to see. It is a state of collapsed self-esteem that becomes the outcome of being desperately broke and shamelessly looking for solutions. This See-Finish moment is often the case with bereaved families caught off-guard and empty-handed and are often constrained to desperately search for funds for a funeral. The people encounter disrespect as they run door to door looking for help to fulfil their final obligation to a loved one. The Leadway FBPP policy ensures that its policyholders are assured that this kind of lousy treatment does not befall them when bereaved and in mourning. To find out more about how Leadway can help you avoid “See Finish”, please visit https://www.leadway.com/family-benefit-plan-plus/ or call the Leadway Assurance customer care helpline on 01-2800-700. You can also send an email to Lcs@leadway.com for professional advisory or request a call back by visiting www.leadway.com/call-me. We are within your reach on our social media outlets – @LeadwayAssurance on Facebook & Instagram, @Leadwayinsure on Twitter. You can send a DM, and we would revert with all the information you require.