A Danish woman, Eva Greene, has narrated her family’s encounter with England fans after a Euro 2020 game at Wembley Stadium. The game between Denmark and England ended 2-1 in favour of the latter who now proceed to face Italy in the final. Greene, 43, urged police to ensure enough protection for Italy fans during the final which will be played on Sunday night. This was after she experienced the action of a mob of England fans who stormed their bus while they were heading home from Wembley after the semi-final game between England and Denmark. She said the jubilant England fans were jumping all over a truck in front of their bus. In the process, a 9-year-old boy was forced to flee to the top deck as his father was confronted and punched in the stomach by an England fan. Some of the fans were “drunk and aggressive”. She told The Standard, “We were sitting with a sleeping child when a crowd of people spotted our Danish T-shirts through the windows. “They started banging on the windows and the doors, screaming and yelling. “They started filming us, it was uncomfortable and weird because we hadn’t engaged with them – we just wanted to go home.” The bus driver allegedly opened the doors which allowed England fans to get on the bus with the American father Lane trying to stop them in the corridor. “At this point I became aware my son was getting afraid, and he went up the stairs. I went after him,” Eva said. “When my back was turned, one guy leapt up and punched my husband in the stomach. A lovely passenger who tried to help us was slapped in the face.” She said her plea to the fans to allow them to head home was ignored as the “vast majority” kept on banging the windows of the bus and screaming. This is as they made “jerk-off hand signals” at the family. She continued, “We’re just a family. We just wanted to support our team. I don’t understand – why wasn’t winning enough? “My husband, who is actually American, was really angry, he told them they should be ashamed of themselves, that they were disgracing the English team. England’s team deserve better fans.” Meanwhile, a Met spokesman said they were investigating an allegation of an assault on Lordship Lane, East Dulwich on Wednesday, July 7 at around 11.50pm. He said, “A passenger on a bus is alleged to have been punched by a man who was part of a crowd of people blocking the road. “The victim did not sustain any lasting injuries and did not require hospital treatment. “The incident was reported to police online in the early hours of Thursday, 8 July.”