The Methodist Church Nigeria has denounced the adoption of same-sex marriage by the Methodist Church in Britain. The British Methodist Church, on Wednesday, became the largest religious denomination in that country to permit same-sex marriage after a vote to change the definition of marriage at the Methodist Conference overwhelmingly passed by 254 in favour with 46 against. Church officials hope the first same-sex weddings in Methodist chapels will take place later this year, according to the British Broadcasting Corporation. However, freedom of conscience clauses mean ministers will not be forced to conduct such weddings if they oppose the move. Same-sex marriage is not allowed in the Church of England or the Roman Catholic Church. But the Prelate, Methodist Church Nigeria, Dr Samuel Uche, in a release made available by the Director, Media and Public relation, Rev. Oladapo Daramola, stated that the recent development applied only to British Methodist. He said, “There is a raging controversy now and people’s feelings are dampened over the decision of the British conference, majority not all of them, to legalise (sic) same-sex marriage. This is for the British Methodist Church. The British Methodist Church is no longer the mother church of Methodist Church Nigeria. “Methodist Church Nigeria became independent, autonomous and autocephalous around 1962/63. Therefore, any decision they take there is not binding on Methodist Church Nigeria. We are not under their tutelage and we are not under their administration. “We, as Methodist Church Nigeria, condemn in totality anything (condoning) gay relationships or marriage. It is un-African, it is even against the law passed by the National Assembly of Nigeria, which was duly signed, and even when the present President was asked to reverse it, he said no.” The cleric stated that the Methodist Church Nigeria adopted the Bible in its totality, saying the Bible could not be rewritten. He further reiterated the “sound doctrines” delivered by John Wesley, whom he said believed in scriptural holiness and evangelical faith. He said, “We believe in the holiness of God. God is holy and God said the man and the woman shall be one, not that man and man should marry. The historical antecedent of the Methodist Church Movement by John and Charles Wesley and George Whitefield and their group is where we stand. It is irrevocable. “We cannot go back to Egypt, we cannot go back to what we rejected. What the British Church has done does not in any way apply to Methodist Church Nigeria. I want illustrious Nigerians and our teeming members to understand that there is no cause for alarm.” “Let them continue worshipping God in spirit and in truth. If anybody is discovered to be aiding and abetting, or contemplating to practise gay (lifestyle) in Methodist Church Nigeria, that person will be excommunicated from the church,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com