The Peoples Democratic Party has slammed a presidential media aide, Lauretta Onochie, for denying her membership of the ruling All Progressives Congress. The PDP made this known on Thursday in a statement titled, ‘PDP to Onochie: Stop this denial, you are a member of APC’. The PUNCH had earlier reported that Onochie denied her APC membership before the Senate Committee on the Independent National Electoral Commission, stating that she ceased being a member of the ruling party immediately after the 2019 elections. The PDP has slammed Onochie, stating that her desperation made her deny her party. The statement reads, “The Peoples Democratic Party has derided All Progressives Congress stalwart and President Muhammadu Buhari’s aide, Lauretta Onochie, for denying her life in a desperation to be appointed as a national commissioner in the Independent National Electoral Commission. “Nigerians were amused to watch Lauretta Onochie, a nationally known APC front runner, as she spewed falsehood before the Senator Kabiru Gaya-led Senate Committee on INEC in denial of her membership of the APC. “…Lauretta Onochie, a die in the wool APC member, whose name appears as Number 2 on the Ward 4 register of the APC in Aniocha Local Government Area of Delta State, has further demonstrated her lack of integrity to be trusted with the position of a national commissioner in INEC. “Lauretta Onochie … may have forgotten that the lawmakers and Nigerians in general are aware of her subsisting oath filed in a pending suit in court affirming her membership of the APC, which she further reinforced and adopted under cross examination in the same matter very recently. “With such proclivity to desperate denials in the face of the truth, allowing Lauretta Onochie anywhere near INEC would pollute the commission as well as the conduct of elections by the commission. “Now that the facts of Onochie’s partisanship has been further laid bare before the Senate, the PDP urges the Senator Gaya Committee on INEC to stand on the side of the constitution and the sanctity of our electoral process by outrightly rejecting the nomination of Lauretta Onochie as INEC Commissioner.”