Barring the unforeseen, the next governorship election of Anambra State will be a fierce contest between the three major political parties in the state. They are the All Progressives Congress, All Progressives Grand Alliance and the Peoples Democratic Party. Last week, the three political parties held their primary elections in preparations for the governorship poll scheduled for November 6, 2021. The primaries, however, were not without controversies. In the APC, 11 out of the 13 aspirants accused the declared winner of the primary, Dr Andy Uba, of manipulating the process. Led by the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the National Inland Waterways Authority, George Moghalu, the angry aspirants, said there was no primary election of the party that produced Uba. They described Uba’s emergence as the candidate of the party as “vexatious and fraudulent.” They said they would send a petition to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), and the leadership of the party to annul Uba’s nomination and have a fresh primary conducted. The protesters alleged that the Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, who served as the APC returning officer in the party’s primary in the state, was compromised. Abiodun had declared Uba the winner of the primary election with 230,201 votes while his closest rival, Johnbosco Onunkwo, polled a total of 28,746 votes. Moghalu said, “Anybody who claimed that there was a primary election in the Anambra APC governorship is fraudulent and does not wish the APC well in the November 6 election.” A legal practitioner in the state, Kelechi Agbasere, who had threatened to take up the matter if the APC failed to conduct a fresh primary election, said, “I can say this anywhere that Senator Uba connived with Governor Abiodun to hijack the election. We can’t allow this to be. If Uba thinks he is marketable, he should have allowed the process to be open and transparent in order to test his popularity.” But Uba in his acceptance speech described his victory as a collective one, urging his  APC co-aspirants to support him to win the governorship for the party in November. He said, “I’m mindful that the lofty dream can be achieved by being focused and united. I have accepted to be the party’s standard bearer for the  November 6 poll and hereby appeal to my co-contestants to join hands with me to deliver the state for the APC.” The schemes and skirmishes are similar in the primary election of APGA, the ruling party in the state. The mainstream members of the party led by the APGA  National Chairman party, Chief Victor Oye, elected Prof Chukwuma Soludo, a former governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, as its candidate in the November election. During the build-up to the APGA primary, held on June 23, five aspirants in the poll were disqualified by the screening committee of the party in what was interpreted as a strategy to pave the way for Soludo to emerge as the candidate of the party. “This is the beginning of the downfall of APGA in the state. How can APGA do this? There will be a protest vote against the party in the state in the November poll because those disqualified persons have strong followings. They will gang up and make sure Soludo is stopped, “ Ozoemene Ezenwa, an aggrieved member of the party said. True to Ezenwa’s prediction, one week after, a faction in APGA conducted a governorship primary election and nominated a parallel national chairman of the party, Edozie Njoku, as its candidate in the poll. In his acceptance speech, Njoku described Soludo’s candidacy “as dead on arrival because it’s encumbered by many issues, especially cases lined up in courts at the moment. We are proactive enough to have organised our primary. “And somehow, the party saw it in their wisdom to have a consensus. It was only one aspirant that refused; they said that I should emerge as the candidate of the party for the election; that we have a lot of journey to go particularly regarding the aspect of Oye’s candidate for the party having a very big problem. “So we need to organise ourselves and do what is right for APGA. We thank God that we have been able to conclude our primaries and I have emerged as the candidate of the party.” According to an insider in the party, another faction led by one Jude Okeke is also planning another governorship primary election of the party. In the Peoples Democratic Party, the story is similar. While a faction of the party on June 26 elected Senator Uba as the candidate of the party at Paul University playground in Awka, the state capital, another group believed to be the mainstream of the party elected a former President and Chief Executive Officer of Transcorp, Chief Valentine Ozigbo, as the candidate of the party in the election. The group that elected Uba said it was empowered to do so by a judgement of the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory in Maitama, Abuja. The court had sacked the state and local government executive councils of the Peoples Democratic Party in the state. Justice O.A. Adeniyi gave the order sacking the party executives in the state in a judgment on a suit marked: HC/CV/774/2021 and filed by Samuel Anyakolah (for himself and all the local government chairmen and ward executives that emerged from the Anambra PDP congress conducted on November 28 and December 1, 2017 under the supervision of Chukwudi Umeaba, as Acting Chairman of the state caretaker committee. Efforts to stay the judgement before the party’s primary on June 26 failed as the court refused the application, insisting that plaintiffs did not show that the non-staying of the judgment would either render their appeals nugatory or make it impossible for the party to conduct its primary for the forthcoming governorship election. But the faction that elected Ozigbo said it had the backing of the national leadership of the party as it had earlier dissolved the contentious factional executives in the state and took over the conduct of the Anambra governorship primary election by itself. In a letter addressed to the PDP National Chairman, Uche Secondus, and dated June 25, the Independent National Electoral Commission said it had received the court judgement that  sacked the Anambra PDP executives. The letter signed by Rose Oriaran-Anthony, the secretary to the commission, informed the PDP national chairman that INEC would comply with the court judgement. The letter read in part, “The commission has been served with the judgement of the High Court of the FCT delivered on 9th June 2021 in suit No. FCT/HC/774/2012- Between Samuel Anyakorah vs PDP & ors regarding the Anambra State PDP executives. “Consequent upon the above, the commission wishes to intimate you of the need to comply with same. Accept the assurance of the commission’s high regards, please.” The commission has a similar opinion on APGA as far as the governorship race is concerned. For INEC’s National Commissioner in charge of Publicity and Voters’ Education, Mr Festus Okoye,  APGA did not meet the legal requirements to contest the Anambra governorship. Okoye said, “On the 16th of June 2021, the party forwarded to the commission the list of delegates for its congress for the purpose of nominating its candidate for the said election. “On the 18th of June 2021, the secretary to the commission responded to the said letter and notified the party that it did not notify the commission of the date of the congress where the ad-hoc delegates were elected as required by Section 85 of the Electoral Act.” “ By Section 85 of the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended), every registered political party is legally obligated to give the Independent National Electoral Commission 21 days’ statutory notice of its intention to organise any convention, congress, conference or meeting for the purpose of nominating candidates for any of the elective offices specified in the Electoral Act. “In the statutory notice given to the commission, the All Progressive Grand Alliance proposed June 23, 2021 for the conduct of its state congress for the purposes of nominating its candidate for the Anambra State Governorship Election holding on the 6th of November 2021”, Okoye explained. Okoye further said, “Based on its satisfaction of the 21-day statutory requirement for the holding of its congress, the commission has concluded arrangements to monitor the said congress and will monitor the congress-taking place on June 23, 2021.” He maintained that before the letter of June 18, 2021, the commission on June 3, 2021 drew the attention of all the political parties to the imperative of complying with all constitutional and legal requirements for the conduct of party primaries as the commission was obligated to keep records of the activities of all registered political parties. He stated that “political parties must remain within the confines of the law and legality in the conduct of their primaries and avoid issues and challenges that may complicate the due conduct of elections. “Political parties must conduct due diligence on the list and personal particulars of their candidates and ensure that party members remain the sole determinants of those that are nominated. Violating the law and the guidelines for the conduct of party primaries will only set the stage for acrimonious primaries and avoidable judicial intervention.” A former National Chairman of APGA, Chief Victor Umeh, however, faulted INEC, saying Okoye was standing the law on its head. He maintained that APGA had met all the requirements to be in the race. The coterminous point is that the three major political parties in the state have enough crises on their hands that can deny them the governorship of the state. Those range from litigation to internal party wranglings. They have their strengths too. While APGA is the ruling party with some striding gaits in the past 15 years it has saddled the affairs of the state, PDP has strong footings in the state as laid down by a former vice president, the late Dr Alex Ekwueme, one of the founding fathers of the party. As his daughter, Chidi Onyemelukwe, one of the aspirants on the party’s platform said, “Anambra people have PDP’s DNA in their blood. The APC that is the ruling party at the centre has a large following and great politicians that can win the Anambra poll for the  party, including the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr Chris Ngige. Be it as it may, the Young Progressives Party, which has nominated Senator Ifeanyi Ubah, an oil mogul, is another party to watch in the race. Ubah has been busy traversing the state for campaigns on a platform that is almost totally rancour-free. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com