Michael Ugwu is the founder and Chief Executive Officer of Freeme Digital. He tells TOFARATI IGE about running a business in the entertainment industry Why did you set up your company? While running IROKing, the company had a main competitor, which was Spinlet. At that time, both companies were very competitive as we had both raised venture capital funding. We both signed artistes and were both very successful at disrupting the music industry in much improved ways. However, both platforms faced issues with locking artistes into suboptimal contracts and suboptimal platforms. Artistes could not put their music on other platforms such as Apple Music and Spotify unless we did it ourselves. We wanted to lock content onto our own platforms and as such, we didn’t allow them to place their content on Apple Music, Spotify or even YouTube once they were signed with us. Later, I realised that was not a fair deal for the artiste. It serves artistes better to get their music as far and wide as possible. So ‘Free me’ was born. I felt those artists were being caged in a way that I didn’t really approve of or appreciate, so I came up with an idea and a name that became synonymous and symbolic with my need to free artists from suboptimal contracts and be able to advise them against getting locked into unfair deals. I wanted to be able to help artistes to get their content on as many commercially viable platforms as possible and to not give out their content for free to all the blogs. The company was set up to unlock content and allow content to breathe. That is not to say that exclusive deals are always bad but they have to be done at the right time when it makes the most economic sense and gives the most optimal value. What are the services your company renders? We are a distribution, publishing and recording company. We’ve worked with legacy artistes, mid-tier artistes and up-and-coming artistes. We also work with content creators in general. We provide distribution services to the major digital streaming platforms. We also help artistes develop their careers, as well as identify specific artistes that we actually want to work with and back with resources in order to drive their careers. What are the highlights of the company so far? The key highlights of the company include achieving huge milestones such as massive viewership across our YouTube channels, being able to build a solid reputation that has allowed us to work with the who’s who in the creative/entertainment/music industry. My team and I have been able to distribute the works of over 2,000 artistes including Rudeboy, Flavour and emerging local talent, The Cavemen, who accumulated more than 10 million streams worldwide after performing at the Big Brother Naija grand finale in September 2020. In addition to this, we distributed popular comedian, Basketmouth’s soundtrack for his sitcom, ‘Papa Benji’. Titled, ‘Yabasi’, the album has been streamed more than 15 million times since its release in November 2020. We also received an award of $250,000 from the World Bank a few years ago to help us scale up our business, buy more production and recording equipment, and build an ultramodern studio in Nigeria. This past year alone, 99 videos were recorded there by artistes such as Burna Boy and Wizkid; and brands such as Budweiser and Hennessy. Davido also recorded his performance on the Jimmy Fallon Show there. How important are artistes and repertoire practitioners to the entertainment industry? In this day and age, they are very important. I think we have finally understood as an industry that A&R connects and really understands things from a commercial and creative perspective. A lot of people forget that this is a music business. Business is a key element of this industry. What an A&R does is to connect the dots between the creative side—artistes and producers— to the commercial side—business managers, music executives, accountants and lawyers. A&R personnel have been incredibly undervalued over the years but as the industry continues to grow, we are seeing more professionalism in the entertainment space. However, A&R is moving a lot more into the digital space. Before an A&R practitioner would have to go to a festival or concert to hear an artiste perform but now one can hear potential artistes on social media. What do you regard as your legacy as the General Manager, Sony Music Entertainment West Africa? My legacy would be brokering the MTN licensing deal with Sony Music. It took three years to broker that deal and it helped us introduce five million international records to the MTN music service. In addition to this legacy, I worked hard on signing Wizkid and Davido to their respective labels under Sony Music Entertainment. Davido was signed to Columbia Records in the United Kingdom and I was a core part of that deal. Wizkid also got signed by RCA Records in the United States of America, and I was involved in the deal as well. What do you recall of your time at Iroking? It was a very interesting time. The streaming/digital space for entertainment was just opening up at the time and I can definitely say we were ahead of our time. Fortunately, we had funding, so we were able to make some investments even though a lot of them did not actually work out. For example, we built multiple applications for our streaming service for Windows, Blackberry, Nokia, Apple and Android. You are said to be the first black board member at Merlin, a digital rights music licensing company. What are your duties in that post? As a board member at Merlin, my duties are pretty much to represent Africa at a high level. It is also to communicate what’s happening at the company’s board level to my African business colleagues and peers in the industry, who are also Merlin members. Nigerian artistes don’t seem to make as much money as they should from digital rights. Why do you think that is? Yes, that is true. I think what’s happening now is that we have a calibre of artistes that have been able to build an international fan base, and that enables them to make a decent amount of revenue from streaming. But locally, it is not that easy. Spotify only recently came to Nigeria, so most artistes have had to rely on a lot of local platforms and this affects up-and-coming and mid-level artistes who don’t have a global audience. Locally, one of our biggest challenges is that culturally, we don’t have people that like paying for things such as streaming services and subscriptions. In the western world and other developed economies, paying for streaming services is more of the norm. But, in Nigeria, we still have that culture of ‘free music’— getting on blogs for free. In recent years, this has been changing but we have not yet seen wholesale change. In what ways does your firm empower youths? The company is 90 per cent for them. We have a great internship programme, where we employ youths that are fresh out of university and train them to understand the inner workings of the music business. We empower them by making them part and parcel of big projects and assigning them specific tasks that are integral to the success of the projects. What are some of the principles you have followed that have helped you to be a better businessman? That would be consistency and resilience. In a country like Nigeria, one has to be consistent and be able to persevere through challenges. If at first you don’t succeed, keep trying and have patience. Another principle that’s also important is keeping one’s eye on unit economics. One has to make sure that one is making profit. No business would last if it keeps incurring losses. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com