MORE than a decade after it was first presented in the parliament, the National Assembly has finally passed the Petroleum Industry Bill. Aimed at revolutionising the country’s hydrocarbon industry, the bill suffered a 13-year delay before the Senate and the House of Representatives approved it on July 1. Although the voluminous details are still emerging, it is a significant step forward in the battle to address the shortcomings inhibiting Africa’s largest oil producer from reaping the full benefits of its major natural resource. In the euphoria of its passage, however, subtle divisive political time bombs are hidden in the PIB. Since the late President Umaru Yar’Adua presented the bill to the NASS in 2008, it has been a tale of delay and conspiracy theories. Yar’Adua, who initiated the bill, died in office in May 2010. All through the five-year tenure of his successor, Goodluck Jonathan, the bill suffered the same bleak fate. The jinx was however broken six years into the tenure of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and the Ninth NASS headed by Ahmed Lawan and Femi Gbajabiamila. The bad news is that the PIB, just harmonised by the Senate and House, is enmeshed in controversy, even as it awaits Buhari’s assent to become law. The furore revolves around the reduction in the fund reserved for the host communities, the definition of a host community, and the allocation of 30 per cent of the oil industry profit for exploration in the ‘Frontier Basins.’ From the initial 10 per cent in the original bill for host communities, the Senate sliced it south to 3.0 per cent. Initially, the House found a midway point at 5.0 per cent, but on Friday, the House concurred with the Senate. The controversy will not go away. Annually, 5.0 per cent translates to about $895 million at the current revenue level; the 3.0 per cent is about $500 million. There should be no arguments on this. It reeks of politics, injustice to the oil communities, which feel insulted, humiliated, and incensed. The reduction could provoke another round of violent militancy in the South-South. Any reduction further damages the brittle trust between the oil communities and the larger country. Having suffered from years of environmental degradation, the communities ought to receive adequate atonement. Conversely, raising the percentage can stem agitation by the militants in the restive region. The bill should define host communities clearly to remove the ambiguities on where oil pipelines pass through as beneficiaries from the percentage to be allocated to communities where oil is being produced. Likewise, reserving 30 per cent of the hydrocarbon profits for exploration is a huge gamble, especially in the Chad Basin, where the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation has ploughed resources for three decades without concrete results. A slice of that 30 per cent would benefit the oil communities and the economy instead of being wasted on uncertainties. Oil is a highly profitable business. As such, the PIB should let private capital investment in its exploration. Due to the delay in the passage, Nigeria has lost billions of dollars in new investments, according to industry experts. Industry data state that investment in the upstream oil sector declined by 13 per cent between 2015 and 2017. Corruption and opacity in operations are widespread. As investment shrank, Nigeria shamefully became import dependent for refined petroleum products, losing trillions of naira to subsidy and attendant corruption. Without the PIB, the oil industry would get worse. Up till now, the primary law regulating the industry is the Petroleum Act of 1969. Like most of the other laws in the sector, it is archaic, most of its provisions rendered otiose by the passage of time. For instance, the N5,000 per day penalty for “unpumpable stock” in the Apapa (Lagos) depots of the international oil companies has become ridiculous. Rightly, the PIB combines 16 different petroleum laws and fuses them into a whole. It turns the NNPC into a commercial organisation with a new name – the National Petroleum Corporation. A regulator called the National Petroleum Regulatory Commission is established, which abolishes a slew of agencies, among them, the Department of Petroleum Resources, and the Petroleum Equalisation Fund. The current Ministry of Petroleum Resources gives way to the Ministry of Petroleum Incorporated. Overall, the reform is geared towards the liberalisation that will drive investment in the industry. Therefore, the PIB should not accommodate any vestige of government involvement or price control in the new dispensation. Oil has been Nigeria’s mainstay for the past five decades. It averaged about 9.25 per cent contribution to GDP in Q1 2021, provides over 65 per cent of total government revenue, and 90 per cent of export earnings. OPEC says Nigeria has proven oil reserves of over 37 billion barrels (after 50 years of drilling) and 5.4 trillion cubic metres of gas, making it the ninth-largest producer of gas globally. It can produce 2.7 million barrels of crude oil per day, but this height has been unattainable due mainly to the restiveness in the South-South region. The agitation for the passage of the PIB was preceded by the flawed political system in operation in Nigeria. Ultimately, fiscal federalism is the real solution to the sustainability, justice, and peace in the Niger Delta. The idea of the centre collecting the income from oil and sharing what it deems fit to the federating units and the local governments violates the tenets of federalism. It was not the case in the First Republic. Then, regions retained 50 per cent of the income generated from resources in their domain, sent 20 per cent to the centre and 30 per cent to the distributable pool. Derivation at just 13 per cent today is unjust. In the United States, states control their oil resources, and the centre receives royalties and taxes. Nigeria, too, should operate along the same lines of true federalism. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com