Motorists in Plateau State, on Wednesday, besieged the Beach Road, Jos office of the Federal Road Safety Corps in desperate bids to clear themselves of all road usage encumbrances. The Plateau State Command of the FRSC had last Monday inaugurated a special patrol tagged: ‘Operation show your driving licence’. According to the Public Education Officer of the command, Andrew Bala, the exercise is aimed at ensuring an accident-free environment and will last one week, while any motorist found plying roads in the state without a licence will be arrested and the vehicle impounded. With the enforcement of the initiative by the FRSC special patrol team on Wednesday, a large crowd of defaulting motorists was seen at the agency’s office. When our Correspondent visited the office around 11.30am, many of the defaulting motorists were seen in queues to clear themselves of road usage liabilities, including renewal of their driving licences and vehicle particulars as well as for collection. Some of them, who spoke with The PUNCH lamented the many hours they spent in trying to get the necessary documents for their vehicles. They also made a case for the decentralisation of the collection points, especially for the driving licence. One of them, who gave his name simply as Mudahiru said, “It is not as if we don’t want to get the vehicle documents or renew them, but when you think of the process and the time you will spend before you acquire the necessary documents or even renew them, it is big problem. Besides, the fees charged for thesae documents are usually on the high side. They need to do something about some of these complaints.” The Sector Commander of the FRSC in the state, Alphonsus Godwin, described the launch of the ‘Operation show your driving licence’ as a success. “Our objective is to have a safe motoring environment in Plateau State and we will continue to do our best to ensure that the objective is achieved,” he stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com