One of the top three finalists on music reality show, Nigerian Idol, Akunna Okechukwu, has said that she decided to put her law career on hold and participate in the competition because of the support she got from her friends and colleagues. She told Sunday Scoop, “I have a 9-5 job at a top corporate and commercial law firm in Nigeria. I did litigation as well, so I went to court almost every day of the week. I also ran my own entertainment law firm where I handled a couple of contracts and did some legal consulting for top shots in the entertainment industry. So, I’m very much a practicing lawyer. “I decided to come for Nigerian Idol because I have a particular friend, Ahunna, who pushed me and even submitted my entry. Also, I have the most supportive co-workers. They insisted that I should come for the show. Even when I got to the top 11 and started to worry about how I’d meet work deadlines, they pushed me out of the office and said I must go for the competition.” On which artiste she would like to work with after the show, she said, “Everybody. I have done legal work for most of them, so I’ve been opportune to watch them in the studio. However, it wouldn’t be a bad idea working with Joeboy. I would also like to work with female singers such as Tiwa Savage and Seyi Shay. I would like to break the myth of females always fighting and not getting along.” Revealing what she plans to do after the show, the lawyer-cum-singer said, “Aside from recording music, I intend to focus on YouTube. I have a weekly show I’d like to do on YouTube and TV as well. Also, I would not quit entertainment law and consulting, so I’m going to boost up my firm with the amazing platform Nigerian Idol has given me.” Contrary to what many would think, the singer also stated that she had never had a man in her life. She said, “There has never been a man in my life. I have never had a boyfriend. Maybe I’ve been with somebody for about a month and it wasn’t properly tagged but if you ask me, I would say I’ve never properly dated any guy. I’ve been too busy, but that should change very soon.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com