A Federal High Court sitting in Abuja has ruled that a former Governor of Adamawa State, Murtala Nyako, has a case to answer in the N29bn fraud charges brought against him by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. A statement by the anti-graft agency’s Head of Media and Publicity, Wilson Uwajaren, said Nyako was being prosecuted alongside his son, Abdul-Aziz and two companies, Sebore Farms and Extension Ltd and Pagado Fortunes Ltd. Other defendants in the suit are Zulkifik Abba, Abubakar Aliyu, Blue Opal Ltd, Tower Assets Management Ltd, and Crust Energy Ltd. They are standing trial on 37 counts of criminal conspiracy, stealing, abuse of office, and money laundering. The EFCC closed its case after calling 21 witnesses. Rather than open their defence, the defendants opted for a no-case submission on the grounds that the prosecution failed to link them to the alleged offences. Justice Okon Abang, in his ruling on Monday, dismissed the defendants’ application and ordered them to enter their defence. The trial was adjourned till October 4,5,7, and 8. In another development, Justice Umaru Fadawu of the Borno State High Court sitting in Maiduguri has sentenced a serial fraudster, Alen Abel, to 15 years’ imprisonment for obtaining N4,065,000  under false pretences. The convict was arraigned on July 14, 2021, by the EFCC on two separate charges. He pleaded guilty to the charges. Justice Fadawu convicted and sentenced him to eight and seven years’ imprisonment on the two charges. He ordered that the jail term be served consecutively. Justice Fadawu also ordered the convict to pay N4,065,000 in restitution and in the event of failure to obey the order, he should serve five years’ jail term on the two separate charges.   ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com