Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO) also goes by the name small bowel bacterial overgrowth syndrome (SBBOS). The cause of this condition may be malfunctioning intestinal muscles or nerves or perhaps an obstruction of some sort or some other intestinal dysfunction. People with SIBO display the following symptoms: When the condition becomes advanced it can cause weight loss along with vitamin and mineral deficiencies. Certain patients with irritable bowel syndrome may develop similar symptoms due to SIBO. The recommended treatment for SIBO is antibiotics or probiotics and sometimes both are prescribed and used in combination. If SIBO is not treated promptly, the symptoms can become chronic and last on and off for months and even years. Sufferers can have no symptoms for a period of time and then suddenly experience resurgence out of the blue for no known reason. The common causes usually turn out to be a diet high in sugar, along with stress. If someone has co-infections of Candida and Lyme, along with the Epstein Barr virus, this can weaken the body’s immune system, which invites bacteria in the small intestine to take hold. This raises the toxin levels, which causes the symptoms to become even more severe. The natural progression of this condition, along with aging, can cause the person to become debilitated with continued weight loss, chronic diarrhea, and malabsorption. Stealth Infection and Inflammation Let us look at how stealth infection destroys the body slowly and quietly. The body’s immune system starts developing at birth by remembering each individual organism it encounters. Every organism has a unique molecular fingerprint found on its surface. Once identified, the body triggers and activates an inflammatory reaction as a defense mechanism. Inflammation is defined as four distinct signs, heat, redness, pain, and swelling. This process is usually brief and contained. However, in the case of stealth infection, the inflammatory reaction is lowered but not totally suppressed. It persists at a very mild simmering level. This results in the ambiguous symptoms and lack of objective findings found in these patients along with normal laboratory findings despite extensive medical workups. There are varieties of proposed theories suggesting how stealth organisms are able to go undetected. Biofilms are aggregates of microorganisms covered in a polymeric substance, also known as slime, made up of extracellular substances. One theory supports, it is this slime that helps the organism navigate under the radar as it is made up of parts of the human body. Another theory suggests that certain organisms have deficient cell walls. This means that the organism lacks the identifiable molecular fingerprints typically found on the surface and as such, are not recognized by the immune system. A third theory proposes that plasmids, shareable DNA, are transferred between organisms, allowing them to disguise themselves with molecules that can change depending on the situation. These plasmids can be shared between different species, allowing for even more genetic variation and masking. Regardless of which theory, a simmer inflammatory response is the body’s common pathway at the end. How Stealth Pathogens Attack Pathogens capable of leading stealth infectious states range from bacteria, fungus, virus, to mycoplasma. Almost any pathogen that has been able to survive the onslaught of strong antibiotics of the past century has the potential capability to attack the body using the stealth mode in addition to their regular mode. Unfortunately, this is frequently overlooked. The alert to the stealth infectious state of many pathogens remain vastly under-estimated and under-appreciated within the medical world. The stealth infectious process puts the body on a slow-motion train crash that can wreck the body beyond repair before final discovery. It is important to recognize that just because a pathogen is not detected by current laboratory technology does not mean it does not exist or cannot do harm. Once these stealth capable pathogens enter the body, they can be ever present, even though common signs of infection such as fever, diarrhea, or cough are absent. Strong antibiotics can bring relief of acute symptoms and reduce toxic load temporarily. Even when the laboratory titer has cleared us of an acute infectious state whereby we are pronounced cured by infectious disease specialists, these pathogens can still be omnipresent within our eco-system in minute amounts. By operating in the stealth mode, they evade detection while continuing to destroy healthy cells, slowly but surely. Fortunately, Mother Nature has provided us with an excellent built-in defense system, and that is why most stealth infections are neutralised without our knowing and this process usually goes on unnoticed for decades. At their stealth state, pathogens release toxins very slowly as the main mechanism of attack. The process is so slow that it can escape even the most sophisticated laboratory detection available. In their mildest state, therefore, stealth infection is hardly noticeable at all. As the stealth infection gathers steam, mild clinical symptoms may surface and be treated more as a nuisance to normal daily living. A person may be totally normal other than some unexplained joint pain or occasional food intolerance. As the infectious process becomes more serious, moderate fatigue, headache, and reduced exercise capacity may become evident. Often these are simply written off as signs of aging. This is why such infectious states usually go unnoticed until the damage is severe and well entrenched. Unfortunately, sooner or later, the body gradually runs out of steam to defend itself as we age or becomes weak due to other reasons. When this happens, though slowly, the body enters a state called toxic overload. Toxic Overload Early signs of toxic overload include malaise, brain fog, joint pain, nervousness, tingling, dizziness, insomnia, headache, gastric upset, and delayed food sensitivity that seems to be innocuous and even written off as part of the aging process. Symptoms of stealth infection escalate slowly over years and decades. If left unabated, toxin accumulation can lead to severe anxiety, chronic pain of unknown origin, severe fatigue, irritable bowl, and recurrent colds and flu. No system is spared, but organs most exposed to attack include the liver and adrenal glands. As toxic overload increases inflammation, the body’s compensatory response is to produce more cortisol, the anti-inflammatory hormone. This production is controlled by the adrenal glands. Chronic stealth infection can gradually lead to overworked adrenals. Cortisol output first rises but eventually falls after being unable to keep up with the ever-increasing demand to neutralise toxic overload. Adrenal fatigue surfaces as cortisol depletion sets in. With compromised adrenal function, the anti-inflammatory response is further lowered, and the toxic overload worsens. As the adrenals weaken, the liver is also under tremendous stress. Stealth toxin attacks healthy cells and causes cell death. As healthy cells die, they have to be metabolised and quickly removed from the body. dapo.ashiru@medicalartcenter.com 0700 MARTCENTER Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com