Some aggrieved indigenes have accused their monarch, the Olowu Orile Owu, Oba Dauda Akinfala, and some chiefs in the Osun State community of illegal sale of 20,000 hectares of land worth over N1bn. They said some of the parcels of land were the inheritance of the royal families in the town, adding that others belonged to individuals. Sources in the town also alleged that land in areas such as Ayesan, Seleru, Bologun to Dabongbo, J.Black, Araromi Adekanmibi, Aladura, Fowosere, Alabameta, Gbindin, Gbokutaru, Lakadi to iyana Ogedengbe, amongst others, had been illegally acquired by the monarch or his aides. The indigenes said due to the monarch’s action, there was the disunity in the town; and in a petition, expressed reservations on the town’s ability to host the 2021 edition of the annual Owu Convention granted by the Royal Union of Owu People, the umbrella body for all Owu descent. The indigenes, under the aegis of ‘Concerned Citizens of Orileowu, Osun State’ in a petition titled, ‘Concerns about the choice of Orile Owu as the host of the 2021 Owu National Convention,’ by one Mr. Lekan Adegbenro and 14 others, lamented indiscriminate sale of land in the community by the monarch. The petition sent to the RUOP leadership, chaired by aformer secretary to Osun State Government, Alhaji Fatai Akinbade, reads in part, “The reign of Oba Dauda Akinfala so far is characterised by wanton annexation of community land of Orile Owu, grabbing of land from legitimate owners and settlers and other acts of misrule, which has polarised the community into different camps. “The Oba and his family members including some chiefs have sold over 20,000 hectares of land worth more than N1bn, representing the patrimony and commonwealth of all the ruling houses without consent of Orile Owu people.” The concern citizens also lamented the prevalence of ritual killings in the town, claiming that five people were killed and their sensitive organs removed recently. But while reacting to the allegations in a letter sent to the RUOP leadership, Oba Akinfala, described as “illogical and irrational” the allegations of selling over N1bn. The reply of Oba Akinfala to the petition against him read in parts, “The most illogical and outright exhibition of irrationality stems out the allegation that I sold several hectares of land for a whooping sum of more than N1bn.” He added, “It is to be noted that I have never collected any Ishakole from the inheritance bequeathed by my father or attempting to convert the Ishakole, being paid by the tenants of Orile-Owu, to my personal use. “There had been good rapport, mutual understanding and peaceful co-existence among myself and my chiefs and Orile-Owu community at large. The authors of the memo are being clever by half to paint a gory picture of non existence crisis in Orile-Owu.” It was gathered that the parties involved appeared before the national leadership of RUOP at a meeting held in Ibadan, Oyo State, where it was resolved that sale of land in the community should stop, while land sold would be revisited. A indigene of the town, Dr Bola Oyemomi was selected to chair the Elders Committee for resolutions of the outstanding issues. Oyemomi, in a text message on Sunday, said, “The consultations are ongoing; meetings held with the traditional ruler, his chiefs, elders of the town twice already. Another round of meetings will hold this week Tuesday and Saturday. Petitions are still being received.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com