When and where were you born? I was born in 1939 in Ilesa, Osun State. That was over 82 years ago. From accounts given to me by my relatives, I was born in April. How many children did your parents have? At the time of my father’s death, there were 25 of us and he had many wives. My mother was number five. I was 16th among my father’s children and number three of my mother’s five children. I have two elder sisters. How would you describe your childhood? My childhood was very interesting. Early in 1942, my mother fell very ill and she had to go to her mother’s house in another part of Ilesa town, so the children had to go with her. It was after the death of my immediate younger brother in 1942. So, we all went there and it was in that compound that I grew to know myself, so to say. Between 1943 and 1944, I was old enough to know myself. The Fafowora family house shared a fence with the Methodist Church and primary school in Ilesa. Originally, that whole portion belonged to my grandfather because he was an important chief. It was during the advent of Christianity that he offered to give the land to the Methodist Church. But the family has over 25 settlements in Ilesa. If you get to Ilesa and ask for the Fafoworas, they would ask, “Which one?” From there, we moved to Apala’s house in Igbogi because my mother’s brother had his own house there. I started school at Holy Trinity, Omofe of the Anglican Church in 1944. In 1945, my father brought me to St John’s Cathedral, Iloro, where my father used to attend. I finished my primary education in Iloro in 1954. I enjoyed my time there and I was among the school band, which was very popular in Ilesa land. Eventually, there was a competition among primary schools and we always fared. That was the beginning of my interest in music. I grew up with it till I graduated from primary school. In Ilesa Grammar School, where I was from 1955 to 1959, there was no drumming. We didn’t offer music as a subject but the thing was still there in me. It found ways to express itself, for example, whenever we went to church services, I sang and was always called upon to play the drums behind the choir. That is part of the experience I had. While in grammar school, I used to go around to listen to music in record shops. There were popular record shops in Ilesa and we had one; any new record that came out in Lagos would get there within a week. So, we used to get all the records of Highlife music from Ghana and we would listen to them almost on a daily basis. After returning from school, I would rest for a while. Around 6pm or 7pm, I used to find my way to record shops to listen to such music. That was the beginning of my inspiration. After grammar school, did you go for further studies? I left Ilesa Grammar School in 1959 and I came to Ibadan (Oyo State) that very year. I took my GCE Advanced Levels in 1967/68. Soon after, I took up an appointment at the Ibadan Western Nigeria secretariat. In particular, I was employed in the Ministry of Health. My uncle was there in the civil service. In those days, those of us leaving school would approach each ministry where we were seeking appointment. They would ask you to bring an application, then they would tell you when the interview would be held. After attending an interview, they would give you results maybe within the week or sometime later and you would start as a clerical officer. For me, that was in 1960. I was a civil servant there up till 1971. I studied privately, I had my advanced level and gained admission twice before I went to the University of Lagos in 1971. I was there for a year. There was no financial support when I got an early admission to University of Ife (now Obafemi Awolowo University) to read Estate Management. So, the opportunities came and went away like that. It was about a year or two later that I got admission to University of Lagos to read Political Science, but I was told, ‘With the military government, what do you want to do with Political Science? Go and read Economics after which you will become more marketable.” So, I changed my course where I met my waterloo. The opportunity was lost, so I went back to the service in Lagos. That was a very bad experience because having lost a grip of my ambition, it brought me down. But I was able to gather courage and after some years, I got another opportunity to go to a higher institution. Which institution was that? I went to The Polytechnic, Ibadan, to read Accountancy from 1975 to 1978. When I finished, I did my National Youth Service Corps programme and went back into service. Then God did something wonderful. We had the two-year Ordinary National Diploma programme, after which you would do industry training and then you would return for your Higher National Diploma. That is five years altogether. But when I applied to The Polytechnic, Ibadan, they discovered that there were many of us at the advanced level. Many were already in the university and most of us were experienced and older. But there was this list of younger people from 18 to 21 who had just left secondary school and they had brilliant results, so they separated us and put us in a class of OND. Most of us who had higher qualifications, that is, one to three papers in advanced level, including some who were in the university, came to pursue Accountancy. So, they created a special class for us and slashed the five-year programme to a three-year programme. That was the first time they did it in Nigeria. That was the opportunity I had. Earlier, I left the Ministry of Defence to go and read Accountancy in The Polytechnic, Ibadan . So, when I came out, after NYSC, I returned to Defence. I heard that the Ministry of External Affairs had been given the licence to employ their own accountants. Before, the external affairs ministry had a supply of accountants that were loaned to it from the Ministry of Finance. After various postings of maybe five to 10 years in batches, they would return to the Ministry of Finance. But at the time I crossed to External Affairs, we were employed directly by the Ministry of External Affairs. After a year, I was among those posted out to various missions. What inspired your music career? When I was born, my mother had four or five daughters. So, everybody in the family knew her anxiety that she longed to have a son. So, when my mother eventually had a son, everybody was happy. So, one of my great-uncles was so happy; I was welcomed to this world with music from the Banjo Band, so my mother used to say, ‘Perhaps this is an indication that this boy is coming with physical talents.’ Those days, when I showed signs of a love for music, my mother used to tell me these things. But she never wanted me to exhibit those talents. My father also went against it. But I just continued until my father died on October 19, 1953 and my mother in 1961, two years after I had left school. Having listened to highlife and other genres of music in Ilesa for so long, I was conversant with many styles at that time. My uncle was the first to open a (record) shop where music was regularly played in the 1940s. I remember he opened two shops. When I was young. I visited such shops regularly. That was where I started. In the 1950s, I would visit Ibadan around the end of the year during the holidays and my cousin, who was in CMS Grammar School, Lagos, would also come. We would always meet there in Ibadan. One December, I went to Oke Bola where his father lived and his dad told me, ‘Dapo has not come.’ His dad was going to Paradise Club, so I followed him. When we got there, he took his instrument and was playing. Then one young man opened the door and entered. Immediately he came in, somebody sang, ‘Lucky, lucky, somebody yara si e.’ That was the popular song that Roy Chicago had just released. I was intrigued and I asked, ‘Is this Roy Chicago?’ Everybody was greeting him, so I looked at him, while my uncle played for about an hour. He then said it was time to return home, so I carried his bag. I then ran back to Paradise Club and Roy was still there. I walked up to him and said, ‘How are you, sir?’ He said, ‘Yes? Are you not the young man who left with Baba Fafowora?’ I said yes. He asked, ‘Did you forget something?’ I said, ‘I have come to see you. I learnt a short while ago that you are Roy Chicago. I’ve just come to know you further. I’m happy to see you.’ He was so happy. He had brought a car, so as he was going to Central Hotel where he had lodged, I told him I was going somewhere else to meet my sister. I accompanied him in his car and we discussed until he got to Central Hotel. He asked what I was doing and I told him I was a student at Ilesa Grammar School. He asked what music I liked and I said, ‘I like Highlife.’ I sang about three or four songs. He asked what I wanted to do when I left school and I said I would come to Ibadan to work. He said, ‘Link up with me and let’s see how far we can go.’ So, when I left school, I moved to Ibadan. He had moved to Lagos at the end of 1958 or early ’59. But he would come occasionally to play at Paradise Club or Central Hotel. So, I used to attend. Then I started giving him songs, he was so surprised. I first gave him Wazobia, Fiwa Jomi and Iba Fun Obi Mi. He continued to ask me if I had other songs, and I continued to give him songs over the years. So, our friendship lasted so many years until he died in 1988. I was preparing to go abroad for a posting when he died. In all, I gave him over 25 songs. We weren’t able to record them all but he waxed a good number of my songs and he gave me credit. What was the first song you composed? That was Wazobia. The story behind Wazobia was that in 1959, when I left school, I was to travel to Ibadan to look for a job, so I went to my uncle. When I got to him that day, he gave me one small job to do, to wash his handkerchiefs, towel-dry them and iron them. I was doing that and before I was done, I realised that some of his friends had come. It happened that it was at that time that the election results of 1959 were being reviewed. I remember all of his friends who had come. They expressed regrets that, as the results indicated, Chief (Obafemi) Awolowo was not going to be prime minister of Nigeria. They discussed the permutations and possibilities whether the Action Group should merge with the National Council of Nigeria and the Cameroons, or have a part of the national government set up. So, when my uncle came out, he asked, ‘Where are the handkerchiefs?’ I said I had yet to finish. Then I said, ‘Daddy, I heard what you were discussing in the sitting room. If they don’t do rotation in Nigerian politics, neither Azikiwe nor (Dr Nnamdi) Awolowo would ever be prime minister.’ He was so shocked. As he took the handkerchiefs from me, he entered the sitting room and announced to his friends, ‘Listen to what my nephew said,’ and he told them. One of them said, ‘What does he know?’ Another one said, ‘Don’t say so. These children are very intelligent. They know what is happening, they read the papers and listen to the news on the radio every day.’ He said his son always expressed opinions at home. Another one said the same thing. One of them said, ‘What this boy has said about rotation is likely what will happen in the future. It is political evolution that will lead to it.’ That was 1959. It was immediately after that I started thinking of writing a song to reflect it. I wanted that rotation, so I composed a song and I gave it to Roy. He said he wouldn’t want to cause any problems and asked me how I could be talking about rotation in Nigerian politics. He said he already had one problem with somebody over a song recorded by Bobby Benson’s band, of which he was a member, and he didn’t want another problem. He shied away from recording that song. In 1960, another person then told me that it was a sensitive idea, so I reworked it. In 1961, I gave it to him (Chicago) again. I also gave him Fiwa Jomi and Iba Fun Obi Mi, which was to eulogise my parents for raising me. I gave him all these songs in 1961, but he had some problems in 1962 when he was involved in a ghastly motor accident that took the lives of two young boys from the same mother. It was a terrible disaster. Later, he went to wax those songs. He recorded them and that was how he was able to retain his position as the king of Highlife. Many people liked these songs and from the fame he acquired, he toured London. I have also been involved in composing gospel songs for churches and for one or two other people. The talent is still there and I’m ready to use it, as long as I’m alive. What year did you retire? I retired from the Foreign Service on March 11, 1995. Since then, I have worked with one or two other companies. But at my age, I can’t go out to do any other job for a salary. I still thank God for my health and music remains in me. I compose every day. A piece of music can just surge in my mind with accompanying lyrics. Over the years, I undermined it as just a talent but God is great. I’m setting up a studio now for regular music production, so people can come to do their recordings. It will encourage many of the young people coming up. How did you meet your wife? I married very late because of the crucibles of life that didn’t encourage me to marry early. Even though I had some relationships, I always avoided getting married because I was not mentally prepared for it. At some point, I went somewhere with the wife of one of my relatives and while we were talking, my attention was on her (future wife) and I said I was interested in getting to know her. She was a nurse and I went to see her where she was working. I spoke to her and said I had seen her before. I went to speak with her and that was how it started. Gradually, things went along and we got married in 1980. The second week after the wedding, we jetted out to London to resume work in the Nigeria High Commission. Since then, it’s been a happy marriage. We thank God. What was your experience of becoming a first-time father? I was posted from London to Edinburgh, Scotland, in acting capacity for the accountant of the embassy, who was to go on admission for an operation. That was after the visit of (then) President Shehu Shagari to London in 1981. After the visit, the posting came out, so I had to go to Scotland. But interestingly, before I left London, my wife had already conceived. So, when I was delayed in Edinburgh, it was time for her to give birth to the baby, so I had an anxious moment. They had given us the date to go to the hospital and that they were seeing some symptoms that she needs some assistance in the hospital. So, I hurriedly left Edinburgh and came to London. I went straight to the hospital. So, immediately I got there, I introduced myself. The nurses and doctors said, ‘Congratulations!’ I jumped up and it was a very happy moment. I said, ‘I am now somebody.’ I now had a child, despite all the difficult times I had gone through. I said, ‘I thank God.’ Tears of joy were just coming down. It was a very nice experience. What was the most difficult moment in your life? It was when I came back from my last posting in Warsaw, Poland. We arrived there on April 6, 1992. Exactly three months later, on July 6, the only boy out of my four children was knocked down by a car coming from Durbar Hotel and it happened at the gate leading to my house within the estate. I was in the office and I experienced a sudden coldness. At the same time, my body began to shake like someone who had been suffering from a fever for a week. My hands and feet were shaking, so I told my boss, ‘I’m not feeling comfortable, I’m going to the hospital.’ My driver parked my briefcase and led me to the garage. So, I entered the car. On getting home, I encountered the situation and I broke down. It was terrible. My wife and I were affected psychologically. Around that time, I would just leave the house and stroll around, not even knowing where I was going. But God took control. If the house was a rented apartment, I would have left that place, but it is my property, so we were forced to be there and we are still there. Anytime I pass through that place, whether twice or thrice in a day, I always remember that sad experience. But the Lord giveth and taketh. How old was he? He was seven years old and a fantastic boy. When we were abroad, you needed to have seen his school report. Who hit him? Somebody who lodged at Durbar Hotel. The driver came to take him to the airport, he sped and the accident happened. He was arrested and locked up. On the third day, I had a nudge from God to leave him. When I told the policeman that I was no longer interested in the case, the divisional police officer said, ‘Go and write it in black and white.’ He said he didn’t want anybody to start giving insinuations that he may have been bribed. So, I wrote it. He said I should attach the death certificate and I did. I gave it to the DPO. Within minutes, the man (driver) was in tears. If the boy were alive, he would have been 36 years old. And as a brilliant boy, he would have recorded a lot of successes. Maybe by now, he would have been a doctor or an engineer. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com