The Provost of the Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education, Oto/Ijanikin, Lagos State, Prof. Bidemi Lafiaji-Okuneye, has said tree planting is capable to mitigate the effect of global warning and climate change. The don, according to a statement, said this during the tree planting campaign organised to end the hazards of global warming. He said, “Going by the level of commitment of the various agencies of the Lagos State Government to the tree planting programme, there is no shadow of doubt that it will be a sustainable project. Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu recently unveiled a five-year Climate Action Plan for Lagos State, as complement to the yearly tree planting campaign to end the hazards of global warming. What a logical way to tackle a recalcitrant monster that keeps threatening human existence. “This new dimension introduced by the governor has made this year’s edition of tree planting exercise an improved version. The plan was actually a direct response to a national report that there is a key climate change indication that increasing temperature and intensity of rainfall have been verified in Nigeria. “Combating effect of global warming on our eco-system requires that we attack the evil of global warming from many fronts simultaneously.  Thus, in addition to imbibing tree-planting culture, we all should join the fight against climate change by adopting climate-friendly lifestyles, cutting down on the use of non-renewable energy, and change mobility styles. Also, we should eat more plant-based diet and less meat, and manage waste creatively and sustainably to completely Restore and Recover our eco-system.” Lafiaji-Okuneye also advocated action to be reinforced against climate change and global warning. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com