The Independent National Electoral Commission has received about 203, 497 fresh requests from Nigerians in its ongoing Continuous Voter Registration, INEC National Commissioner and chairman (Information and Voter Education Committee), Festus Okoye, has said. According to him, the physical or in-person registration was scheduled to commence in all INEC State and Local Government offices nationwide on Monday July 19 2021. Okoye gave the figure in a statement issued in Abuja on Tuesday evening after its meeting which discussed, among others, the ongoing CVR, which commenced on June 28. He said, “In our press statement of Tuesday June 29 2021, we promised Nigerians that after one week of the exercise, we will be giving weekly updates which will include a detailed breakdown of the distribution of registrants by State, occupation, gender and age. “As at 7am yesterday, July 5 2021, one week after the commencement of the exercise, 203,497 eligible Nigerians have completed the online pre-registration as fresh voters. “The figure rises to 259,713 if applications for voter transfer, requests for replacement of Permanent Voters’ Cards, update of voter information record etc, are included. “Full details of week one of the exercise have been uploaded on the commission’s website and social media platforms. “For emphasis, the physical or in-person registration is scheduled to commence in all our State and Local Government offices nationwide on Monday July 19 2021. “Eligible Nigerians who wish to register physically and those who have scheduled their appointments to complete their online pre-registration will have the opportunity to do so. “Both online pre-registration and the physical registration will go on simultaneously throughout the duration of the CVR. Further details of the schedule of activities and locations for the physical exercise will be made available next week. “The online pre-registration services are for the following categories of Nigerians:
“Those who are 18 years and above and have never registered. Registered voters who have had any problem during the accreditation for past elections, with either their PVCs or fingerprints not being read by the Smart Card Reader.
“Registered voters who want to transfer their voting location from one place to another. Registered voters who want to correct issues with their data, such as misspelt names, dates of birth, etc. “Registered voters whose PVCs are lost or damaged. We urge every eligible Nigerian to seize the opportunity of the online pre-registration or the in-person option to register as a voter.”