Bitter ethnic sentiments, uprising, looting, arson, and general violence litter South Africa’s highway to bringing former president, Jacob Zuma, to justice. Unlike in other parts of the world where errant leaders have been imprisoned, South Africa has been convulsed in ethnic upheaval since Zuma surrendered himself at the Estcourt Correctional Centre in his native KwaZulu-Natal to begin his 15-month jail term for contempt of court. Feeling aggrieved about the sentence, Zuma’s supporters have rioted in two provinces – KwaZulu-Natal (Durban is here) and Gauteng (Johannesburg is here) – since July 7, leading to scores of deaths and mass arrests. The rioters are setting a dangerous precedent and jeopardising Africa’s on-and-off crusade to bring corrupt leaders to justice. After more than a week of violent turmoil, 72 persons have been confirmed dead. The police, who had four officers injured, made 1,700 arrests. The police battled the rioters but were overwhelmed by their sheer numbers. In the lawlessness that ensued, shops, malls and vaccination centres were looted, and set ablaze in Johannesburg and Durban. The rioters have blocked most of the major highways in the country, preventing food and medicines supply from reaching the critical areas where they are needed. This is a stain on Africa. It is a huge setback for South Africa. Economically, it is a disaster. On July 14, 200 incidents of looting and vandalism were recorded. Retailers lost 2.0 billion rands to the looting and arson in the two provinces. The rand (South Africa’s currency), which had been on the rise, has dropped to a three-month low in the past few days. Two hundred shopping malls were looted and torched. All this exacerbates the poverty level and the 32.6 per cent unemployment rate, regarded as very high. It hurts the very people who are rioting on behalf of Zuma. They should have a rethink. South Africa has not witnessed such large-scale violence since apartheid ended 27 years ago. This episode began building up shortly after the country’s highest court convicted Zuma on June 29 for failure to attend an enquiry probing corruption allegations during his nine-year presidential tenure (2008-2018). Although Zuma denied the corruption allegations, he defied the court hearings. He was justly punished for disobeying the law, but rather than allow the rule of law to prevail, his supporters, who are mainly the poor from his ethnic stock, joined the fray. This is disturbing. No man -past president or not- is above the law. Besides, the protests have disrupted social life and the battle against the COVID-19 pandemic. South Africa is experiencing the third wave of the virus. This disruption is ill-advised; it will aggravate the spread of the pandemic. People living with HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis are endangered because they have not been able to access treatment centres and their medicines. After initially deploying a 2,500 troop-strength, which has now been boosted to 25,000 with army reserves, President Cyril Ramaphosa should quickly take other measures to counter the protesters. Corruption has no other name. Thus, the South African authorities should be lauded in their bid to make Zuma answer for the proven misbehaviour while he was in office. There were several allegations of corruption against Zuma when he was president, including ‘state capture,’ described as siphoning off state assets in collusion with his cronies and dubious firms. He is being tried separately for a $5 billion deal in the 1990s. The events in South Africa have wider implications for the rest of the continent, where leaders sit tight in office and are seen as demi-gods. Historically, Africa has a leadership problem. Most African freedom fighters end up becoming corrupt imperial overlords and brutal dictators as was the case in Zimbabwe, Uganda, Sudan, and Ivory Coast. A September 2020 report by UNCTAD estimated that Africa loses $88.8 billion annually or 3.7 per cent of the continent’s GDP to illicit financial outflows. In Nigeria, attempts to bring corrupt leaders to book are muddled up, delayed and politicised. The trial of governors, lawmakers, and federal ministers last indefinitely despite a 2015 law – the Administration of Criminal Justice Act – targeted at speeding up criminal justice. Currently, a senator is standing trial in a fraud case, but just like Zuma, she has refused to attend court. For those who remember its history, this is not the South Africa Nelson Mandela fought and went to jail for. After his one-term tenure as president and the nine-year tenure of his successor, Thabo Mbeki, things seemed to have changed. In the post-Mandela and Mbeki eras, the African National Congress, the liberation party that took power at the end of apartheid in 1994, seems to have lost its way. The economy worsened under Zuma and set the stage for the current mess under Ramaphosa. Empty populism is Zuma’s main message, but it cuts only with the poor. In 2016, the court ruled that he breached his oath of office by using public funds to pay for his private home refurbishing in Nkandla – he has repaid the money. In 2017, the public protector asked him to appoint a judge-led inquiry into allegations he profiteered from his relationship with the influential Gupta family, allegations that he denied. To save South Africa, the true leaders of South Africa should abjure ethnic sentiments and come out strongly against Zuma’s supporters. The ANC leadership should review the ideals of the party with a view to restoring its ‘Rainbow Vision’ as espoused by its past leaders and put into practice by Mandela and Mbeki. The incumbent president (Ramaphosa) should not back down on the rule of law, no matter who is involved. He should reignite efforts to revive the economy, create jobs and bring down unemployment. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com