Operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission on Monday arrested four suspected Internet fraudsters in the Kubwa and Jahi areas of Abuja. A statement by the EFCC’s Head of Media and Publicity, Wilson Uwujaren, said the suspects were arrested following credible intelligence received by the commission on their alleged involvement in computer-related fraud. “The suspects are Victor Wealth, Hendrix Esimeje, Merit Bareten, and Moses Owoh. Items recovered from them included two exotic cars and mobile phones,” the statement added. In a related development, Justice Mahmood Abdulgafar of the Kwara State High Court sitting in Ilorin, on Monday, sentenced a 20-year-old man, Oke Gideon, to 30 days’ imprisonment over romance scam and Internet fraud. PUNCH Metro learnt that Gideon was arrested on May 4, 2021 by operatives of the Ilorin Zonal Office of the EFCC following intelligence reports on his nefarious activities. A statement by the Head of Media and Publicity of EFCC in the zone, Ayodele Babatunde, said Gideon admitted to committing the crime and was arraigned on Friday, July 2, 2021 on two counts, to which he pleaded guilty. The charges read in part, “That you, Oke Gideon (aka Jenna Cherry), between August 2020 and September 2020 in Ilorin, defrauded and obtained $150 worth gift from one Bradley Miller under false pretence that you are Jenna Cherry, a white female from Las Vegas, United States of America, which you knew to be false.” Justice Abdulgafar convicted and sentenced Gideon based on his confessional statement and the exhibits tendered against him before the court. However, the judge gave the convict an option of fine of N50,000 and ordered that his iPhone 6 and HP laptop, which were used to commit the crime, be forfeited to the Federal Government. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com