A lawyer to Yoruba rights activist, Sunday Adeyemo, popularly called Sunday Igboho, has demanded N500m from the Federal Government for the losses incurred by his client after officers of the Department of State Services raided his residence. The DSS operatives on Thursday stormed the Ibadan, Oyo State, residence of the activist, who had been advocating Yoruba Nation. The services later issued a statement confirming the raid, disclosing that two Igboho’s aides were killed and ammunition allegedly retrieved from his residence. In the letter titled, “Illegal gang grossly unconstitutional invasion of Sunday Igboho Residence,’’ signed by the lawyer, Chief Yomi Alliyu (SAN) of Chief Yomi Alliyu & CO, on Saturday, he demanded N500m as reparation for damage done by the DSS’ officers to his client’s exotic cars which included Mercedes Benz G-Class and 2019 Lexus car. The solicitor also stated that during the house invasion, the DSS carted away €1,000, N2m, expensive jewellery worth millions, travel documents, amulets, Igboho’s iPhone 12 and phones of about 15 others living in the house including those killed by the officers and other yet-to-be-identified belongings. He added, “We hereby demand that the Federal Government orders an investigation into the actions of the various security operatives led by DSS that raided Chief Sunday Adeyemo’s house with a view to sanctioning them and release all the innocent people arrested and compensate the families of those murdered. Our client should also be paid N500m as reparation for damage to his exotic cars that include Mercedes Benz G-Class and 2019 Lexus Car. We also demand a public apology.’’ The lawyer further said that every Nigerian was aware that in Igboho’s open crusade for the creation of Oodua Republic, he always preached peace and warned his followers never to resort to violence. He said, “He always said that It is God and alale” that will fight for Yoruba Nation. We can boldly say that as people who followed his campaign, but not necessarily supporting dismemberment of Nigeria, that no casualty has ever occurred wherever such rallies were carried out.  This must have been done in more than 20 Yoruba towns and cities as at date. “No demand to enter was made but rather they shot their way into the house allegedly killing seven people though DSS spokesman admitted killing two people which involved an old imam that used to lead Muslim occupants in prayers and observing Tahjud at the time of the barbaric raid. A lady among the invaders was allegedly shouting, “If you get him gun him down.” He also alleged that the operatives were disappointed that they couldn’t allegedly find a single gun or ammunition in his client’s house, hence arrested two police escorts of Igboho’s guests and added their “guns to those harvested from their armoury to make members of the public to believe that our client keeps militia or as stated by them, he is about waging war on Nigeria. Will this be with his mere amulets? People who know our client of over 20 years will testify that Igboho Oosa does not carry gun on his person!’’ In his reaction on Saturday, the DSS said it stood by its statement on the items recovered from Igboho’s residence after the raid. The Spokesperson for the services, Dr Peter Afunaya, who spoke with Sunday PUNCH said, “The statement by the services suffices. The statement also said those arrested would be charged accordingly. There would be court action.” On whether the DSS would react to the statement on the items taken away from Igboho’s residence, Afunaya said “the services statement suffices. Investigations and forensic analysis are ongoing. There would be court action.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com