The Lagos State Government has said the newly introduced Lagos State Property Taxation Software mobile app will help in effective property administration and revenue generation. In a statement, the Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Finance, Mrs Oyeyemi Ayoola, said that the mobile app was designed to improve land use charge operations, enhance revenue base and expand the quality of data and its availability in the state. She stated further that the aim of a recent workshop held at the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry was to train LUC field officers, consultants and administrators on the functionalities and technicalities of the new mobile app developed by Deta Mainingu Limited for effective property administration in the state. Ayoola explained that the workshop would help build the capacity of field officers in application of the new technology and ultimately improve property enumeration as well as LUC revenue generation. Lauding the technical partners for bringing innovations that would impact positively on governance, the Permanent Secretary called on participants to make good use of the exposure to technology to develop themselves and assist the state government in attaining its goal of being a smart city. Project Manager, Mrs Nike Jolasinmi, explained that the app would enable the Ministry of Finance to effectively monitor and control the LUC revenue generation process in the state. She said, “With the app, data analysis and report generation is easy and it saves all the payments that are made. It is effective, efficient and easy for proper documentation. “Simply put, it helps the ministry have total control over all the revenue generation system of LUC in the state.” Director of Taxation and Revenue, Mr Abayomi Yusuf, appreciated the state government for facilitating the workshop, stating that it would engender efficiency and greater productivity. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com