A pro-All Progressives Congress group, Lagos4Lagos, has threatened to leave the party if the current caretaker committee led by Alhaji Babatunde Balogun is not dissolved. The Lead Visioner of the group, Dr Abdul-Azeez Adediran, who issued the threat on Sunday while addressing members of the group in Ikeja, said the committee failed to fulfil its promise of conducting free and fair primaries for the local government election. Adediran expressed dissatisfaction that while N2m was paid for nomination form, many that paid were disenfranchised, adding that it was time for Lagos to decide who would govern them. He said, “We want the caretaker committee in Lagos dissolved. We are passing a vote of no confidence in the Lagos APC leadership.  These people collected our money without giving us our choices. “If they refuse to do the needful, we will move. How do you reconcile the fact that you ask your own members to pay a huge sum to get nomination forms? Some of our members (Lagos4Lagos) have been disenfranchised. “This (Lagos APC caretaker) committee should be dissolved; we don’t need a party that depends solely on one person.” Reacting, the Caretaker Committee Chairman of the state APC, Alhaji Babatunde Balogun, told The PUNCH on the telephone that the party in the state conducted credible council primaries. Balogun said, “There is no basis for some of these allegations they are making. The people in Abuja know that we had very good primary elections. The APC is very popular in Lagos; the party controls about 85 per cent voters in Lagos. “So, you will expect conflict. People want to get there because they know that a win at the primaries is as good as winning the election. That is why there was anxiety and so on there. We followed the LASIEC guidelines; we had security in place. “We don’t want to lose any member; that is why I am calling on them to try and see reason and come to the fold.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com