Bandits, who abducted 121 students of the Bethel Baptist High School, Maraban Rido, Kaduna State on Wednesday reiterated their demand for rice and other foodstuffs to feed the abductees. A top official of the school, who is involved in the negotiation with the bandits, confided in one of our correspondents that the hoodlums called again on Wednesday and stated that they had run out of food. The PUNCH on Wednesday reported that the bandits had contacted the school management and confirmed that they were holding 121 students of the school. According to the official, the bandits said the students would be starved as they had no food to feed the 121 abductees in their custody. Recall that bandits in the early hours of Monday invaded the Bethel Baptist High School, Maraban Rido along Kaduna-Kachia road and abducted 121 students. On Tuesday, the Proprietor of the school and  President of the Kaduna State Baptist Conference, Rev. Ishaya Jangado,  told journalists that the bandits had contacted the school management and confirmed that they were holding 121 students. On Wednesday, the top official of the school, who spoke to one of  our correspondents, said during the latest call (on Wednesday), they did not make any monetary demand. According to him, they, however, said the food they demanded must be supplied by the school management if they (the management)  didn’t want the students to be starved. The source stated, “They have yet to  ask for any ransom, but they reiterated their demand for rice, beans, oil and other foodstuffs. They insisted that the foodstuffs must be supplied before any negotiation would start. They also said they had run out of food to feed the 121 students and that the abductees would not be fed if the items were not provided.” Meanwhile, the President, Nigerian Baptist Convention, Rev. Israel Akanji, on Wednesday said the church would not encourage payment of ransom for the abducted students of Bethel Baptist School, Kaduna. Akanji, who said the church was working with the Kaduna State Government to ensure safe release of the students, said Governor Nasir el Rufai had assured that all would done secure their release. The cleric also said the church was talking with the parents of the abducted students to reassure them that they would be released, adding that prayers were also being offered for the release of the students. Describing as criminal, the action of the abductors, Akanji said the church would not support payment of ransom and expressed hope that the victims would be released with no ransom paid. He said, “As a church, we don’t take the position of payment of ransom for innocent children carried away from their school. We don’t think it is the right thing to do and we will not encourage that, that should be done. “We are not for ransom. We are for the release of these children because it is criminal for people to take away other people from their freedom and take them into incarceration and begin to make demand. As a church, we don’t encourage that, we will not want to do that. “As a denomination, we are to pray to God for His intervention. So, we mounted up prayers. We also got in touch with the Kaduna State Government. We are able to speak with a number of top officials. Finally, I got to speak with the Executive Governor of Kaduna state, Mallam Nasir el Rufai. “He assured us that he was already working. He told me that Nigeria Army, the Air Force and other security agents are already collaborating and ensure that everything possible was done so that the children will be released.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com