The Ogun State government has assured stakeholders in the mining sector of policies to improve the business environment. According to a statement from the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, the Commissioner, Mrs Kikelomo Longe, promised during a stakeholders’ engagement meeting in Abeokuta that the administration would regularly engage miners on issues affecting the growth of their businesses. Longe said the ministry had partnered with relevant agencies to improve dispute resolution as part of matters raised during an engagement in March. She said conflicts between miners and members of the Community Development Association in Ado-Odo Ota Local Government Area had been addressed while efforts had been intensified at curtailing illegal mining in Ogun. She said, “In our move to strategically mitigate these problems relevant government ministries, departments and agencies are a part of our engagements to holistically review and offer appropriate lasting solutions to issues discussed. “My ministry assures you all of its commitment and unflinching support towards establishing an economically prosperous business environment through its policies.” The ministry’s Permanent Secretary, Olu Aikulola urged miners to take advantage of a loan facility of the Ogun State government and Bank of Industry to aid their businesses. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Industry, Trade and Investment, Chief Remi Ogunmefun, said the ministry would widen the scope of engagement and add operators and consultants in the banking sector. Mr Gbenga Animashaun of the Truck Owners Association of Nigeria appealed to the government to carry out palliative works on the Kemta-Ajebo road in Abeokuta to ease the movement of miners and mining products. Mr Moshood Mansuur of Mining Product Dealers Association of Nigeria, Ogun State Chapter, called on the government to support local miners in the area of access to capital. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com