A patient who says she has back pain has alleged that she was abandoned on the examination table by the attending doctor at the National Orthopaedic Hospital, Igbobi, Lagos State. The patient, Eunice Adesola, said it was her first time at the foremost bone specialist hospital, and that she had met one Dr. Gbadegeshin, who attended to her at the General Outpatient Department on Monday, June 28. She expressed concerns that the treatment she was offered was “less than stellar,” and that, at the end of the consultation, Dr. Gbadegeshin did not deem it necessary to discuss her health issues with her, or the probable cause of her back pain. When our correspondent contacted the Public Relations Officer of the hospital, Mrs. Ayo Adenike, she said the hospital was in the process of contacting the patient before our correspondent called. Adesola later confirmed that the Head of SERVICOM unit, Dr. Francis Nwachukwu, contacted her on Friday, saying that Dr. Gbadegeshin said he had treated the patient well. Narrating her encounter with Dr. Gbadegeshin, the patient told our correspondent, “I did not suspect that I was in for a rough time when the doctor shunned my greeting as I entered his consulting room. He just buried his face in his laptop and kept typing as I explained my health concerns. “He then asked me to lie down on the examination table, which I did, with my blouse taken off. “After he had examined my frontal part, he ordered me to lie face down. I did, with a little difficulty, as I was mindful of my aching back. “Dr. Gbadegeshin went ahead to hit certain parts in my back, starting from the top. As he continued downward, I attempted to tell him that some spots he was hitting were painful, but he shut me up, saying he was watching my face to see my reaction. “He then folded one of my legs, which impacted painfully on my back; at the same time, he pressed my aching lower back firmly to the examination table, and I screamed out in excruciating pain. “Dr. Gbadegeshin ignored my pain and went for the second leg while his other hand was still pressed to my lower back. “At that point, the pain had become unbearable and I appealed to my attending physician to give me a moment’s respite. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com