Following the rehabilitation of damaged roads in Lagos, the General Manager, Lagos State Public Works Corporation, Olufemi Daramola, has charged road users in Lagos to take ownership of the roads, adding that the corporation has worked on 385 roads from January till date. The LSPWC helmsman gave the charge during a media parley, adding that motorists and commuters should complement the government’s continued effort to rehabilitate road defects across the state. Daramola also said that among the 385 roads that the corporation has worked on, 100 strategic ones had been rehabilitated, while routine maintenance was carried out on over 268 roads and 17 roads were maintained using palliative approaches. The corporation said it hoped to work on an additional 400 roads before the year ends. The LSPWC boss said that maintenance work carried out by the agency sometimes required a retouch due to activities of residents and road users which caused avoidable damage to roads. He said that the corporation was reinvigorating its advocacy campaign to sensitise the public about man-made causes of road damage to inspire the people to take ownership of the roads. “Habits such as the burning of items on the road, discharge of wastewater on the road, removal of manhole covers, excessive axle load, cooking on roads, indiscriminate cutting of roads and dumping of refuse in drains are all part of reasons why roads cannot last their supposed lifespan,” he said. Daramola assured that the agency would discharge its duties even in the rainy season, with round-the-clock work ongoing. He added that night operations had become permanent features of its modus operandi, although most maintenance activities still took place during the day. A statement by the LSPWC Head, Public Affairs, Samuel Ayetutu, said some of the strategic roads done so far included Aye/Isolowat, Mushin-Isolo LGA, Ileshomi Street, Oshodi LGA, Ado Badore, Eti-Osa LGA, Dailey Street, Shomolu LGA, Odogbolu Street, Surulere LGA, Keffi Street, Obalende, Lagos Island LGA, Jakande Estate Road, Alimosho LGA, Afolabi Street, Ikotun, Alimosho LGA, Old Otta Road, Powerline Junction, Orile Agege LGA and Etunreren Street, Ikorodu. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com