The Yoruba Global Alliance has faulted the arrest of Yoruba Nation agitator, Sunday Adeyemo, popularly called Sunday Igboho, in Benin Republic. The group in a press statement on Tuesday by its Director of Public Communication, Taju Tijani, cautioned the Federal Government not to brutalise Igboho. The group regretted that in the 21st century “Nigerians are recording a muscular form of democracy” under the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.)’s regime. The Yoruba group accused Buhari of “retreating into a dangerous dictator bent on grounding Nigeria in shame among the comity of nations”. Part of the statement read, “We are witnessing the sudden and shocking re-emergence of military chauvinism in virtually all areas of our national life. Sunday Igboho emerged like a messianic figure and with his disarming simplicity and humility was able to enlarge a circle of mutual trust and solidarity with his Yoruba tribe at a defining moment when his tribe faced genocide from Fulani herdsmen. “We are aware that Nigeria has morphed into a “one chance” democracy that is bent on defending Fulani sectarian interest, curtail freedom, and use military clampdown on opposition figures. This totalitarian impulse ferment in ignorance, oppression, fear, and moral defeat. President Buhari has been deploying the logic of the ghetto to hunt self-determination groups while cuddling and pampering Fulani herdsmen, murderous bandits, merciless kidnappers, and criminals across Northern Nigeria. “He must go through and exhaust all the judicial processes pertaining to extradition between Nigeria and Republic of Benin and must have legal representation all the way. The public must know the type of crime Igboho committed to being declared wanted as we do not believe in the earlier trump up framing of stock pilling arms and ammunition levelled against him by the Nigerian state. “The ongoing backward, illiterate, lawless and military form of stripping Nigerian protesters, self-determination and oppositional groups of their liberty and freedom under this ignoble All Progressives Congress-led government of President Buhari must be recorded for accountability at the appropriate time.”