Some passengers who demand for a refund after experiencing a flight delay or cancellation at the airport may not be eligible to receive a refund, the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority has said. Passengers who fall into this category are those who book their flight tickets without reading the terms and conditions applied to see if they are entitled to ask for a refund or not. The spokesman for the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority, Sam Adurogboye, speaking on Aviation Runway – Metro FM on Friday, said there were terms and conditions on every ticket booked which may render some passengers ineligible for refund. The NCAA had said recently that passengers delayed for three hours were entitled to refund. However, Adurogboye noted that some passengers who buy their tickets at the counter and those who purchased theirs earlier would not be entitled to the same terms. He said, “Every ticket has terms and conditions and refund is subject to certain conditions. There is a saying that if you do not want people to know, put it in black and white. “The terms and conditions are attached at the back of the tickets. Most people are not even aware and that is not excusable. “There are terms and conditions applied to every ticket booked. The terms and conditions attached to booking a flight early may not favour a refund. “If the ticket is not refundable, the terms are there. “The terms are written there and the period in which the tickets are refundable. People have to know that when you are asking for a refund, you have to ask if it is in your interest. “The transaction has taken place, the bank has also taken their own; so when you are being refunded, it cannot be the full amount again.” He identified some of the causes of flight  delays and cancellations to include natural occurrences, which nobody has control over. Adurogboye said, “In aviation, weather is not a friend to airplane because an airplane is designed to go in a stable atmosphere. When adverse weather sets in, it becomes unstable.” He explained that technical issues could make a plane develop a fault, and following the rule, such a plane should be brought down and checked all over again. He also noted that when flights were delayed or cancelled for whatever reason, the passenger deserved to be informed. Adurogboye said, “In fact, if the passenger has not arrived at the airport, as an airline, you need to get across to your passenger by mail, phone or text messages so that they don’t bother coming to the airport. “But when checked in at the airport, and all these are happening, you also need to compensate them with refreshments and the likes. “International flights are different. If you have checked in passengers for international flight, and there is a delay, you need to put them in a hotel. “Not all delays are uncalled for, some are excusable.” He added that an airline that did not care about losing a passenger would end up losing all. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com