The House of Representatives has passed for second reading, a bill seeking to make Nigeria designate November as the ‘National Appreciation for Security Agencies Month.’ The proposal is titled ‘A Bill for an Act to Designate the Month of November as the National Appreciation for Security Agencies Month, to Preserve and Promote Honour, Respect and Greater Recognition for Nigerian Security Agencies for their Sacrifices, Tireless and Crucial Services to the People of Nigeria in Preserving the Security, Freedom and Liberties of the Citizenry.’ After the sponsor, Bamidele Salam, finished presenting his lead debate, the Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, asked why the lawmaker chose November, the lawmaker said it would allow Nigerians to look back into the year. Other lawmakers also recalled that the country already has January 15 as the Armed Forces Remembrance Day. The Deputy Minority Leader, Toby Okechukwu, stated that he was not unmindful of the efforts and contributions of the Armed Forces, and they should not be undermined or underestimated. Okechukwu, however, asked if it could be done administratively instead of the parliament having to legislate on it. Chairman of the House Committee on Defence, Babajimi Benson, expressed his support for the bill. He said the recognition being sought by Salam could be captured through amendment of the existing laws, especially on the Armed Forces Day. The Deputy Majority Whip, Nkeiruka Onyejeocha, said the recognition should be extended beyond the Armed Forces to all security agencies and personnel. Responding, Salam noted that while the Armed Forces Remembrance Day is focused on fallen heroes, his proposal is to celebrate serving officers and men. Earlier in his presentation, Salam said, “This bill seeks to establish a National Appreciation for Security Agencies Month to reflect upon the sacrifices made by officers and men of the Nigerian Security Agencies and to show appreciation for their service to the Nation. “The bill also aims at establishing a Fund to be known as the National Appreciation for Security Agencies Fund for the purpose of conducting the activities of the National Appreciation for Security Agencies Month and other matters related thereto. “The overall objective of this bill is to recognise, honour and encourage the dedication of the men and officers of Nigerian security agencies and galvanise a public show of gratitude to them and their family members on an annual basis.” The lawmaker added, “Generally, appreciation encourages people to go to great lengths and even exceed expectations. Appreciation is an incentive with an unimaginable level of stimulation. Nigerian security personnel, like their counterparts in other parts of the world in the line of battle over terrorism, banditry and insecurity deserve gratitude from Nigerians who are the prime beneficiaries of their sacrifices. “The need to show appreciation cannot be overemphasised considering that officers of Nigerian security agencies risk paying the ultimate price with their lives, and sometimes eventually do, in protecting the lives and property of citizens. Making this appreciation a national event will no doubt bolster their spirit, increase their motivation and boost their morale in doing more for the country. “In other countries like the United States of America, United Kingdom and France, appreciation of the efforts of military personnel has proven effective and remains the propelling force behind the success story of years of battle in defence of the nation.” According to Salam, the choice of November as the National Appreciation Month for Security Agencies is in view of the fact that it is closer to the end of the year when most families, government organisations and businesses are winding down on annual activities. “It will, therefore, be a good time to reflect on the sacrifices of our security agencies especially in the course of the year and celebrate them accordingly,” he noted.