Nigerian-born unbeaten boxing champion, Raphael Akpejiori, proved his destructive power Saturday night when he stopped Steven Lyons in the opening round in Miami. Ethasor Raphael Akpejiori was born on 10, October 1990 in Lagos,  and grew up in Surulere, according to his Wiki citation. He has five siblings. In 2008, at the age of 17, he moved to Wichita, Kansas, on a basketball scholarship, where he attended Sunrise Christian Academy. In 2010, he moved to Miami, Florida, after being recruited by the University of Miami basketball team, eventually switching to play American football and gaining a place at the Miami Dolphins’ rookie training camp. He holds a bachelors and master’s degree in mechanical engineering. So far, Akpejiori has knocked out all 12 of his opponents within two rounds. Celebrating his Saturday victory, he told Sky Sports, “If I was going to name a dream fight for me next year, I would say Tyson Fury and Dillian Whyte. Those are two guys I know I can step in the ring with and beat both of them. “But my goal is to have the heavyweight belts in my hand. Once I’ve accomplished that, everything else will fall in place. Adducing reasons for picking the two boxing giants, Akpejiori said, “I excel against guys like that, because that’s what I do very well. I bring pain and I believe that those guys are the kind of guys who believe they bring pain, and I believe I do that better than them.” The 6′ 8″ tall 30-year-old is guided by trainer Glen Johnson, a former world light-heavyweight champion. The Nigerian Hurricane has had 12 total fights, all of which he won by knockouts. Akpejiori had a brief amateur, compiling a record of 13–1 (10 KOs), and has been invited by the Nigerian Boxing Federation to compete for Nigeria at the Tokyo Olympics as a super-heavyweight. Akpejiori made his professional debut on 14 September 2018, scoring a first-round technical knockout (TKO) victory over Omar Acosta at the Twin River Event Center in Lincoln, Rhode Island. Following another first-round TKO win over James Advincola in November, Akpejiori scored three more first-round stoppage wins in 2019; a knockout (KO) over Leo Cassiani in June; and TKOs over Johan Lopez in July; and Jose Pulido in August. Akpejiori’s first fight of 2020 was a second-round TKO win against Mike Ford in January, his Wiki bio says.