CONCERNED All Progressives Congress Youth Stakeholders in Kwara state, loyal to the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed on Tuesday called on the National Caretaker Committee of the party to suspend the state governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq over alleged anti-party activities. The youths at a press conference in Ilorin asked the party to invoke Article 21 of the party’s Constitution against the governor for allegedly floating a group known as AA within APC ‘’thereby causing factionalization in the state branch of the party which were infractions punishable under the party’s constitution.” They also called for the removal of the governor from a committee set up by the party to resolve the crisis in the Anambra state chapter. However, the Publicity Secretary of APC Caretaker Committee, Tajudeen Aro, a member of Governor Abdulrazaq’s group, described the youths as jokers who lacked the power to make such calls. Aro while reacting to the allegations that the governor created AA group in the party said the youths were making unfounded allegations against the governor, alleging that Lai Mohammed set up a forum, Lai Mohammed Campaign organization when the APC was newly birthed in the state. He stated, “Don’t mind those youths, Lai Mohammed started the whole problem by creating a forum known as LAMCO which he was funding instead of funding the party. On what grounds are they calling for the suspension of the governor? “The Concerned youths have no grassroots support; they are not known in their Constituency and who are they to decide who the party will appoint to resolve the crisis in the party? Governor Abdulrazaq is an elected governor while Lai Mohammed is appointed and can be removed anytime.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com