Yoruba Nation agitator, Chief Sunday Adeyemo, aka Sunday Igboho, has said he did not ask the Oluwo of Iwoland, Oba Adewale Akanbi, or any traditional ruler to speak on his behalf. Igboho has gone underground since July 1 when operatives of the Department of State Services raided his residence in the Soka area of Ibadan, Oyo State, where two persons were killed and 12 others were arrested. Oba Akanbi had in a letter written to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Friday, begged the President to forgive Igboho, whom the monarch said he would bring to the Presidential Villa in Abuja soon for talks. However, the spokesman for Igboho, Olayomi Koiki, in a post on his Facebook page, Koiki Media, on Sunday, said his principal did not ask any traditional ruler to speak on his behalf. “Chief Sunday (Igboho) did not ask any royal father to speak on his behalf. His legal team is on his case,” Koiki’s post read. Koiki, in a live broadcast later, said those arrested at Igboho’s house were still being held by the DSS despite not being criminals and not violating any of the laws of the country. He added that more lawyers had joined Igboho’s legal team and they would visit the DSS facility in Abuja today (Monday) for the release of those arrested in his principal’s house by the security agents. Meanwhile, the Yoruba Youth Socio Cultural Organisation, has called on Koiki to stop speaking for Igboho in order not to plunge him into deeper trouble. The Secretary of the group, Mr Olawale Ajao, in a statement on Sunday, quoted the President of the YYSA, Olalekan Hammed, as also calling on prominent Yoruba leaders who Igboho had offended to forgive him. The statement read, “Olayomi Koiki should speak for himself now and not for Igboho. Everybody knows that he (Igboho) is in a problematic situation and presently needs help. He has no option but to step down his agitation. Those people using his name to organise Yoruba Nation rallies without considering the fact that he is presently in trouble are after personal gains. “Besides, the Ààrẹ Onakanfo, Iba Gani Adams; Oba Abdulrasheed Akanbi, the Oluwo of Iwo land; and all other Yoruba monarchs have taken commendable steps in their own capacities to free him from siege. “We are hereby calling on our prominent Yoruba elders/leaders, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Chief Bisi Akande, Baba Enoch Adeboye and many others, who he had some time ago unwisely and arrogantly offended, to forgive him and come to his rescue.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com