One of the claims of a citizen upon a state is that the state must observe their rights, especially right to protection of life and property. In this respect, the state’s latest victim is Chief Sunday Igboho. The Nigerian State removed those conditions which are necessary for him to be fulfilled in life by invading his Ibarapa home recently. The first condition of adequate living is the security of life. The Nigerian State has failed woefully in this regard to protect a large section of its citizens. The same Nigerian State which has failed and or refuses to protect the majority of its citizens sometimes through inaction, advised them to defend themselves. But asserts, or so it seems, that security of life is essential to the well-being of its top-ranking government officials alone, making the rest of us less than citizens. When the State cannot provide citizens those conditions that will guarantee their safety, that State has failed. The Nigerian State has consistently refused to take effective action that can remove the hindrances blocking citizens from functioning at optimal levels. Citizens’ aspirations remain largely unfulfilled when they cannot function at this level. This is a complete disaster considering the notion that a democratic polity is securely founded on the attainment of this goal – the fulfillment of citizens’ aspirations. The public space is awash with reports of kidnappings, murders and rape. The State does not exist solely for the governing class. However, we read daily on the pages of newspapers the security woven around agents of government as if they do not share a common end with other citizens, that is, providing for citizens too, the condition to function optimally without the fear of being kidnapped, raped and killed. Many Nigerians are condemned to a life of misery through government mismanagement of our rich resources. If N97 out of every N100 earned is used to service debt, then this generation and generations to come are in deep trouble. The goods and services necessary to the life of citizens are never so distributed to produce a result which maximises citizens’ social utility. For example, the supply of electricity to power small, medium and large scale industries. We spend on aesthetics what is wanted to equip our hospitals and schools. The senators, governors, government contractors, the super rich, etc, can spend the annual wage of a labourer on a single dinner  while the poor labourer cannot send their children adequately fed to school. Today, men who amassed wealth through politics still want more to satisfy their vanity and their lust for power. That is the grim reality in Nigeria. John R. Jimoh, 4 Olukoya Street, Ijebu Ode, Ogun State Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com