A public health physician, Adaora Keazor, has advised Nigerians to keep their environment clean to overcome cholera and other disease outbreaks. Keazor said this on the sidelines of the Jabi Lake clean-up organised by the African Center for Environmental Protection in partnership with gospel artist, Eleoramo Toluwanimee, in Abuja. She said, “With the current outbreak of cholera in the country, sanitation and waste disposal must be appropriately done to aid healthy living in community. There has to be a way of disposing of waste properly, because once rain falls, anything we have cleaned will be washed back into the water. “We need to beg our people to stop drinking any water at their disposal. People should endeavour to boil any water they are not sure of its source before consuming it. There is an outbreak of cholera in the country at the moment, we must, therefore, be very careful about what to eat and drink, as well as our environment.” “Foods and vegetables must be washed and prepared well; nobody should eat anything that is half cooked.” Toluwanimee said the Jabi Lake community clean-up was done to ensure members of the community stay healthy. “While shooting my music video on the lake, I saw debris in the water which serves as the main water source of the community and I was concerned about the health implications on the people and their occupation. “We have to work with the fishermen to encourage them to come out for this sanitation. We are cleaning the water and surroundings of the dirt thrown into the water, which is distorting the ecosystem of the water,” she said. The Country Manager, Oxford Policy Management, Femi Adegoke, said there was the need to keep the lake clean, saying it would boost the economic activities of the Jabi Lake community. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com