RISING COVID-19 infections and hospitalisation in Nigeria should sound the alarm bells to all and sundry as the country is being left behind. Global health authorities say the highly transmissible Delta variant is now prevalent in 21 African countries and is surging through unvaccinated populations. Confirming this, the Presidential Steering Committee on COVID-19 has given a red alert to Lagos, Oyo, Rivers, Kaduna, Kano, Plateau, and the Federal Capital Territory about the Delta variant threat in these areas. Yet, these alarms on the deadly and virulent variant are coming amid reports of vaccine shortages in the country. An independent non-profit news organisation, The New Humanitarian, reported that the African continent’s vaccine rollout is crawling, slowed in part by a critical shortage of doses. “Countries are reliant on bilateral deals and the UN-backed COVAX facility, which aims to distribute vaccines equitably. But vaccine deliveries have not come close to matching needs, and almost ground to a halt in May and early June, according to the WHO,” it said. Once again, Africa is being left behind in the global efforts to vaccinate the people against the ravaging virus. For now, 26.3 per cent of the world population has received at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine. Only 1.0 per cent of people in low-income countries have received at least one dose. The World Health Organisation has vividly painted the dangers ahead, perhaps for unserious countries by its declaration that the Delta variant is currently the most transmissible of all variants. It said the variant had been detected in 21 African countries, while the Alpha variant is present in 35 countries and the Beta in 30. The specialised United Nations agency notes that scaling up vaccine manufacturing and rolling out vaccines as quickly and widely as possible will be critical in protecting people before they become exposed to the virus and the risks associated with the new variants. It has been shown for the first time that two doses of COVID-19 vaccines are highly effective against hospitalisation from the Delta variant. Experts say these are comparable with vaccine effectiveness against hospitalisation from the Alpha variant. But this is where most African countries, including Nigeria, have awfully missed the point. They remain feebly tied to the apron strings of Western nations and are at the mercy of donors, without inventive ideas of local invention, collaboration for vaccine breakthroughs, or local manufacturing. The United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has observed that COVID-19 is fast turning to a ‘pandemic of the unvaccinated’ as rising infections and deaths occur more in areas with low coverage in the country and more unvaccinated people are at risk. Nigeria’s state governments must intentionally take a cue from this and ramp up vaccinations. Apart from running out of vaccine stocks, only a minuscule fraction of the population in the states has been vaccinated. This vexing reality should prompt the states and the Federal Government, who the vaccine manufacturers deal directly with, to swiftly swing into remedial action. No doubt, Nigeria, among other African countries, has benefited from the WHO-led COVAX global initiative to provide free vaccinations. But the aid is not enough and too far in-between. Nigeria is expecting 41,282,770 doses of COVID-19 vaccines by the end of September 2021. Though enough to vaccinate 20 per cent of the population, it is still not enough to hit 75-85 per cent vaccination and recovery to be able to reach herd immunity. Until the succour of abundant vaccines comes, what is desirable is the discipline by the people to observe health protocols. It is time for the leadership to exhibit urgent concern by procuring approved vaccines and expand the frontiers of governance openness to safeguard the helpless citizens against the virulent Delta variant. Lagos, the most populous state and the commercial nerve centre, has also been the epicentre of the pandemic in the country. The federal and state governments must therefore take stringent actions against defaulting travellers who breach the laid-down COVID-19 rules, particularly as the state had noted 100 daily cases of infected people with an indication of a steady increase. The state governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has vowed tough measures against irresponsible inbound travellers into the state who disregard mandatory testing and isolation. He must match his words with actions. He needs to keep in mind that the index case was smuggled into the state by a foreign traveller, a development that later affected critical sectors with a ripple effect across the country. There must be rigorous scrutiny of inbound passengers before entry into the country. Diligence is lacking at the airports, and this has opened the country to risk from travellers coming from high burden countries. The ineptitude at the country’s gateways has often jeopardised preparations for the pandemic in states with high air passengers. Public office holders should demonstrate leadership and not aggravate the situation with mindless actions and displays. These are routine acts at public spaces, most airports. COVID-19 safety guidelines are for everyone, and none should violate them on account of status or connections. Traditional and religious leaders should join hands with the relevant government agencies to cure vaccine-hesitant Nigerians of disbelief regarding the existence of the virus. Another category of Nigerians must also be purged of the erroneous belief that COVID-19 affects only the rich and spares the poor, including the canard that the virus is not in Nigeria and politicians only made it up for selfish economic gains. Clerics recklessly trivialising the importance of the COVID-19 vaccine to discourage their worshippers from taking jabs must be persuaded to show self-control in the fight against the pandemic. Citizens must show responsibility too by adhering to safety precautions to safeguard their lives against the virus. They should take safety guidelines such as regular handwashing, use of face masks and social distancing seriously among themselves and family members. It is unlikely that Nigeria can cope with a third wave amid the current economic adversity, featuring rising poverty, soaring food prices and staggering unemployment, exacerbated by indolent policies and inept leadership. The WHO Regional Director for Africa, Matshidiso Moeti, warning of the third wave in Africa during a recent virtual conference, said, “The speed and scale of Africa’s third wave is nothing we’ve seen before. The rampant spread of more contagious variants pushes the threat to Africa up to a whole new level. More transmission means more serious illness and deaths, so everyone must act now and boost preventive measures to stop an emergency becoming a tragedy.” Many Nigerians have apparently let down their guard, believing there is no cause for alarm. But indeed, it is time to stay vigilant because the ravaging virus is still on the prowl and Nigeria must not be caught napping again. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com