The Federal Government, on Wednesday, said the full takeoff of the agro-industrial processing zones in Abuja, Ogun, Oyo, Imo, Cross River, Kano, Kaduna and Kwara states was slowed down by the outbreak of COVID-19. It announced that it was set to implement the National Agricultural Data Management Information System to strengthen data and information services in the sector. In a document on special-agro industrial processing zones programme obtained from the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, the government said it was partnering the African Development Bank and other stakeholders to actualise the industrial zones this year. The Director, Information, FMARD, Theodore Ogaziechi, however, told our correspondent that while moves to get the zones established were still on, the process was slowed by the outbreak of COVID-19. “The outbreak of COVID-19 slowed down a lot of activities, but the plan to get the zones established is still very much ongoing,” he said. In the document, the government explained that under the programme, agro-processing centres would be established across the country. It said, “The agro-processing centres will be provided with basic infrastructure such as water, electricity and roads as well as facilities for skills training. “Seven states and the FCT [were] selected for the pilot phase, due to commence 2021. They include Ogun, Oyo, Imo, Cross River, Kano, Kaduna, Kwara.” The ministry said the NADMIS would enhance data for policy, planning and tracking of the Sustainable Development Goals in the agricultural sector. The Permanent Secretary, FMARD, Ernest Umakhihe, disclosed this in Abuja at the national validation of country data for third biennial review exercise on the implementation of Comprehensive Africa Agriculture Development Programme. Umakhihe, who was represented by the Director, Federal Department of Agriculture, Karima Babaginda, said NADMIS would act as an instrument for the resuscitation of information services at both the federal and state ministries of agriculture across the country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com