Parents of Lagos State Model Colleges have kicked against the astronomical increment of students’ feeding fee from N25,000 to N75,000.00 per term. Some of the parents who spoke with The PUNCH said the fee was initially pegged at N125,000 during a meeting with the Commissioner for Education, Mrs Folashade Adefisayo, and her team members, but after a protest, it was reduced to N75,000.00. However, these parents insisted that the N75,000.00 was still unaffordable A statement by the Chairman, Parents’ Forum of Lagos State Model Colleges, Dr. I. O. Miller, reads, “I wish to inform you that I was invited to a meeting with the Commissioner for Education, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Education, TG/PS and all Principals of LSMCs (Senior and Junior) on upward review of the boarding school feeding fee at all levels (JSS and SSS) in all Model Colleges in Lagos State. “The Permanent Secretary  informed us that government had concluded plan to increase the feeding fee of N25,000 being paid by parents because government could no longer feed our children and give them the expected comfort with the N25,000 paid per term. “She further said it would take N125,000 to feed a child per term, adding that the government had, at its State Executive Council  meeting, resolved that parents would pay N75,000 per child per term begin from next session. “We should be prepared for the unexpected. If government would not shift their ground on the N75,000 per child per term, we may not get the N40,000 proposed by PF chairman and secretaries on your behalf.” When contacted, Adefisayo promised to send a press release to explain the government’s side. However, as of press time, the Ministry of Education had yet to make any statement. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com