With over 12 million votes cast last week, it is clear that things are getting even hotter on the sixth season of Nigerian Idol. After impressive performances week on week, Comfort’s time on the competition came to an end as she was eliminated on Sunday night after polling the least number of votes. The Sunday live show was graced by the talented singer, songwriter and producer Cobhams Asuquo, as a guest judge. He opened the show with an incredible performance of ‘We Plenty’ and ended by advising the finalists, “to always remember that they got to this stage because they did something differently, to always make the audience their priority and to always make music that they believe in.” The top three contestants were then required to perform two songs, the first being a Naija ‘cover’ and the second, a top song on the Billboard Chart. Opening the stage for the first round of songs was Kingdom as he performed ‘Iyawo Mi’ by Timi Dakolo. Next was Francis Atela who performed ‘Pray for Me’ by Dare Art Alade. To seal the first round of performances, Akunna performed ‘Johnny’ by Yemi Alade. Moving onto the second round of songs was an iconic rendition from Francis as he performed ‘I Will Always Love You’ by Whitney Houston. Next was Kingdom who sang ‘How Deep Is Your Love’ by Bee Gees. The last girl standing, Akunna, crowned the night with her performance as she sang ‘Only Girl (In the World)’ by Rihanna. Unfortunately, the judges felt her performance did not come off as fantastic as they expected. Cobhams admonished her to exercise more energy when performing. The judges wrapped things up by expressing their joy at the performances of the final three contestants and commended their efforts so far in the competition. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com