What is your opinion regarding the controversy over the appointment of Lauretta Onochie as an INEC Commissioner? Free and fair election in Nigeria is the basis of a functional democracy. Knowing the importance of the Independent National Electoral Commission and the need for electoral integrity, any nominee to the commission must be an unbiased person. The legislative intention in adding the provision of not being a party member is to ensure non-affiliation with any political party. Admitting that she was a member of a political party and also the fact that currently she is still affiliated as a media aide to the President is enough reason to turn her down; so, the decision of the Senate is very much welcome. We already have a dented electoral system; we need to resist anything that can further make the system vulnerable. We have had a terrible history of INEC officials being jailed for corrupt practices and fraud. We need an electoral commission that can stand for integrity and whose reputation will not compromise the integrity of the process. Looking at the past record of Lauretta Onochie and her active participation as a member of the All Progressives Congress, appointing her will generate suspicion from the citizens, giving them room to assume that her appointment is for a hidden agenda and this will be a contributing factor to the current lack of trust the citizens have always had in matters that concern elections. We need credible people to usher in credible elections. What are your thoughts on the controversy over electronic transmission of results from the Electoral Act? The Majority of Nigerians do not believe in the manual processes used for our elections, because they can be manipulated, which is why we are calling for an electronic process even though we know that cyber security in Nigeria is very poor and needs to be invested in. We are in the technology age where even schools are taking classes using their computers for assignments and exams; so, our electoral process from the point of accreditation, voting, counting of votes and the collation of results should be done electronically. This will also eliminate electoral violence, ballot snatching, rigging and multiple voting, among other issues, and enable transparency. The huge sum of money always budgeted before and during elections will also be minimised and diverted to other important issues. The transmission of votes in Edo and Ondo also made it quicker and more credible; we can avoid human errors if we support electronic transmission of results; it stands to benefit us more than disadvantage the process. What are your thoughts regarding the ongoing electoral reform in the National Assembly? The ongoing electoral reform is an important one that will either make or break our electoral processes and our country as a whole. There is a need to look at the way we do things overtime and make room for doing things in a better way and the only way to achieve that is to review our electoral laws and make necessary amendments. Even though there was a lack of political will in 2018, now is the time to look at the current situation the country is in as regards leadership, economic and security issues we are faced with. There are several areas that we need to develop issues around offences and punishment; impunity needs to be addressed in the electoral process. Our major achievement will be the codification of technology in our elections. I am aware that there are quite a number of positive reviews we hope the debates will retain, but critical areas are campaign finance, inclusion and sensitive elections. We cannot continue to monetise our elections and think they will be credible; if politicians invest, they will want returns at the expense of the citizens. With the way things are going in the country, is there hope that there will ever be credible elections? Given the present situation in the country and going by recent occurrences, the thought and reality of a credible election in 2023 is farfetched, but it can be achieved if there is political will and if the INEC continues to raise the bar; where there is will, there’s a way; the current leadership has shown much of this but the larger political agenda may be bigger than the wishes of INEC. The obsession by the government of the day with suppressing free speech and press freedom is one of the reasons why the masses will doubt the reality of the 2023 electoral process. Secondly, the harassment, disappearance and arrest of critics of the government come to mind as well as the media shutdown. A government that is not tolerant of criticism will do all it can to hold on to power. Finally the nomination of Lauretta Onochie, a card carrying member of the APC, as the INEC commissioner gives cause for concern. Though the nomination was rejected by the Senate, the intention behind it cannot be overlooked. There is, however, no reason to believe that there will be credible elections in 2023. Looking at Nigeria’s political history, what do you think can be done to ensure credible elections? The Electoral Amendment Bill of 2010 was supposed to have been amended and forwarded to the President about two months ago to allow for early preparation by INEC. The bill was supposed to address the lapses observed during the 2019 elections. The new Electoral Act is supposed to incorporate electronic transmission of results from the electoral units to the collating centre to prevent manipulation of results. In the history of Nigeria, at no point has the manual electoral process worked for us; it is time to embrace the electronic electoral process. We can’t compromise this; it will be the best if we really want to achieve credible elections. Political parties must commit to ensuring internal democracy and responding to expectations to allow the best. We have other stakeholders who can contribute to the system cleansing; we need informed and active citizens and the role can only be played if the CSOs activate their engagement, but the truth is that the CSO space is underfunded and support goes more to the government than the CSOs for election strengthening. Financial autonomy is also important to ensure an independent electoral commission. An electoral commission that is funded and regulated by the Presidency can be compromised. There should also be an institution established to prosecute election offenders; we can also have designated a commission on electoral offences through the three cycles of elections. How should INEC members be appointed in order to have fair elections? The board of INEC should be constituted by an independent body that will be made up of distinguished Nigerians like retired chief justices of the Supreme Court, clergy, diplomats, academia, captains of industry academia etc. Members of INEC should be patriotic Nigerians, who have good track records and are non-partisan. Members, former members or aspiring members of political parties should not be considered for appointment. Nomination of the INEC Chairman should be done by the body or committee and forwarded for confirmation to the National Assembly and sent to the President for confirmation. How is the participation of women in politics pivotal to the polity as a whole? The Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination Against Women adopted in 1979 by the United Nations is the benchmark for women participation in politics. In a world where the conversation is about inclusion and gender equality, it is important to have women in politics. Women’s equal participation and leadership in political and public spaces are essential to achieving the UN Sustainable Development goals. Currently, women serve as heads of states/government in about 22 countries. Balanced political participation and power sharing between women and men in decision making is the internationally agreed target set in the Beijing declaration and platform for action, but most countries in the world have yet to achieve this gender balance. It has therefore become imperative for women to participate in politics in Nigeria. This will increase voters’ turnout; more women will participate knowing that they can vote and be voted for; women will no longer feel marginalised and the issue of gender inequality will be put to rest. There will also be confidence in the electoral process; using the issue between Natasha Akpoti and Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, whereby the latter was being accused of colluding with INEC to disqualify the former, it can lead to voters’ apathy and lack of trust in the electoral process by women in Kogi State or the nation as a whole. She was threatened and harassed because of her political aspirations. Events like this, which appear to block women from participating in politics, have negative effects on the polity and further participation of women in politics. The call for more seats to be reserved for women is a temporary measure; we need to redress historical injustices and bring more gender sensitivity to the fore in our political space. What do you think about the frequent defection of politicians from one party to another? I think the defection of politicians shows a lack of loyalty to political parties as well as a lack of ideologies. Party membership should be as a result of aligning with party ideologies; one cannot simply just change ideologies. Ordinarily, when a party member defects, the person should lose the position or seat, because it was on that party’s platform he/she campaigned and was elected. However, it needs to be noted that with the current political system, it’s more a matter of convenience than ideology. We need to fix our politics; we need to overhaul the system; we need to get more people interested in a space that is devoid of all the current complications. Fixing politics gatherings is engaging in the process of educating people on the rudiments of politics and educating people on political economy; we need a new lease, fresh patriots that can push the country forward. We need young people and women to change the face of politics. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com