• Sani names kidnap kingpins in Zamfara, Niger, demands arrest, prosecution Bandits suspected to be Fulani herdsmen again have invaded the Makarau Jankasa community in the Zango Kataf Local Government Area of Kaduna State, killing no fewer than nine persons, while scores of others sustained varying degrees of injury. Our correspondent learnt that the hoodlums stormed the community around 5pm on Sunday, shooting indiscriminately at anyone and anything in sight. Scores of residents of the area were reported to have fled their homes to neighbouring communities as a result of the heavy gunshots. The attack came less than 72 hours after a similar incident in the same local government area in which no fewer than nine villagers were killed at Warkan, while several houses were razed in the attack that occurred around 2am when residents were fast asleep. According to a resident of the area, James Atung, the bandits in large numbers invaded the community around 5pm on Sunday and were shooting indiscriminately. “When the gunmen came, they were just shooting and some of the villagers ran into the bush. The shooting lasted for some time before security operatives came and by then, the bandits had fled,” he stated. Atung, who spoke to one of our correspondents on the telephone on Monday, also said most of the villagers had fled their homes and called on the government to put more efforts into safeguarding the lives and property of the citizens. He noted that the incessant attacks had forced the villagers to stay off their farms, adding if the government failed to do something about the situation, there would be food shortage. When contacted, the state Command’s Public Relations Officer, ASP Mohammed Jalige could not be reached. Meanwhile, a former senator representing the Kaduna Central Senatorial District, Shehu Sani, has said bandits in Kaduna State now write letters to communities they want to attack. Sani disclosed this in an interview on Arise TV Morning Show monitored by one our correspondents in Abuja on Monday. He said, “These bandits don’t just kidnap, they raid houses and even send letters to communities. When they send these letters, it is either they come a day before the deadline or come a day after the deadline. “As I am with you here, I received a text yesterday (Sunday) from someone, who claimed they got letters from the bandits, who notified them of an impending visit. The former senator also spoke about his visit to the Bethel Baptist High School, Kaduna, where 121 students were kidnapped by bandits. Sani stated, “I visited the school yesterday (Sunday), where I met with the school authorities and also the parents of the abducted victims, and from my own understanding, they have been able to establish contact with the abductors and secondly, they are assured that their children are safe. The parents have also encouraged themselves to pressurise the government and call on well-meaning Nigerians to support them. “Before the governor closed down schools, parents in the outskirts had already started withdrawing their children. In the city, parents take their children to schools and wait till the schools close. This is the level we have found ourselves in Kaduna State.” Sani also spoke on the intervention of an Islamic cleric, Sheikh Ahmad Gumi, stating, “You see, since Sheikh Gumi started his initiative on dialogue with these bandits, we have come to see who they are; the government and representatives of security agencies have met with their leaders. “Dr Gumi once said something like we can use those who are ready to lay down their arms to fight against those who are not ready. “The ones operating in the axis of Zamfara, Kebbi and Sokoto states are headed by Dogo Gide. The one that has been the mastermind of kidnapping in Kaduna State and parts of Niger State is called Paleri. He has repeatedly sent in audio messages and conducted interviews on the phone bragging about his capacity to abduct whoever he wants to kidnap and he repeatedly said that he was going to kidnap more people. “For other states in the North-West, they have a way of negotiating, but in Kaduna State, they feel that they are being confronted by the words of the governor; so, it’s more like since you are the stubborn one, we are all coming into your state.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com