Transcorp Hotels has launched an online platform called ‘Aura by Transcorp Hotels’ as part of efforts to boost hospitality service in Nigeria. A statement said it was launched in Abuja, by Nigeria’s Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, at the Transcorp Hilton Hotel Abuja. The hospitality firm stated that “Aura by Transcorp Hotels’ is an online platform that curates accommodation, staycations, cuisines and memorable lifestyle experiences.  The platform was created for Transcorp Hotels, the hospitality subsidiary of Transcorp.” Commenting on the launch, the Chief Executive Officer, Transcorp Hotels, Dupe Olusola, said, “We recognise that technology is enabling a wave of innovation, amid greater adoption of digital solutions by consumers and businesses. “We are excited about the functionality of the Aura platform, created by the Africa Prudential team.  It is an important aspect of our diversification strategy, as we seek to create a hospitality ecosystem across Africa and offer greater value to consumers and our industry.” The Chief Executive Officer, Africa Prudential, Obong Idiong, said, “The launch of Aura is the latest milestone in Africa Prudentia’s digital technology strategy and builds on the successes of other cloud-based solutions created by the company.” “Aura is significant in our journey, as a digital technology company.  We have come a long way, since we launched our innovation lab three years ago.  This platform is the latest evidence of the capacity that we have built, and we look forward to delivering further innovative solutions, that will improve the business experience of consumers and corporates.” It stated that Africa Prudential had created a series of other cloud-based solutions, including EasyCoop that enabled traditional cooperatives easily provide member services online. Other solutions included GreenPole, an enterprise register management software, and EasyMall, an online shopping platform. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com