The Nigerian anyhowness ought to stop now that COVID-19 appears to have t hrown some countries into a new wave. Many Nigerians believe that the virus either doesn’t exist or cannot affect them. Eavesdropper knows that the country’s politicians’ ways which often expose their selfish acts to the detriment of the citizens made the people doubt their positions about the virus. They continue to leave critical aspects of governance and allow people to wallow in abject poverty. This kind of situation will make it difficult to even convince the people about the existence of coronavirus. But regardless, the people have a duty to protect themselves against the virus by not only adhering to safety protocols but also ensuring that they educate others to be careful in order not to contract the virus. They have to think basically about their health first notwithstanding the leaders’ uninspiring acts.  Eavesdropper recalls the palliatives donated by stakeholders and compassionate individuals. The palliatives were meant to be distributed to the vulnerable and poor Nigerians during the lockdown. Many people’s livelihoods were affected during the period. Some lost their jobs and others had nowhere to get the next meal. But wickedly, rather than distribute the palliatives, they locked them up in warehouses despite the suffering people were going through at the time. One of them was said to have kept the palliatives meant for constituents with a strange excuse that they would be distributed to them during a birthday celebration. It was the celebration that mattered then and not how to assuage the immediate hunger of the people. It took whistleblowers’ intervention for the people to storm warehouses where the palliatives were kept and take them away. The people had variously argued too that they didn’t loot the warehouses but only took what belonged to them. It was sad that some of the palliatives like noodles had started to spoil when they were brought out of the warehouses in some states. It exposed the level of insensitivity the leaders could exhibit when trying to amass everything for themselves without giving a hoot about the people they claim to be serving. It’s thus not surprising when some people continue to doubt the existence of coronavirus. They also maintain that it doesn’t affect the poor because of the caliber of those it had affected so far in Nigeria. The truth is that there is coronavirus and every Nigeria has to do everything to protect themselves. The Delta variant, also known as B.1.617.2, can spread more easily according to the Centres for Disease Control. Nigerians have to be extremely careful and take precautions as the Delta variant is said to have mutations on the spike protein making it easier for it to infect human cells. This suggests that people may be more contagious if they contract the virus and will easily spread it to others. This is the more reason Nigerians have to do away with anyhowness and make sure that the virus is not allowed to spread in the country. The variant has been recorded in over 104 countries of the world. Some Nigerians usually amused themselves with the curfew declared by the Federal Government from midnight to 4am, wondering if the virus spreads at night. But beyond the amusement, this is the time for everyone to be vigilant and report any noticeable development regarding the infected person to the government. When directives are given to curtail the spread, it is the duty of everyone to abide by them. Anyone is at risk of contracting the virus especially those who do anyhow in the face of dangerous risks. Dangerous trend Eavesdropper hopes authorities concerned will quickly move to apprehend some cannibals said to have killed some cassava harvesters in Ebonyi State. Report had noted that about five indigenes of Ali Ugwelu village, in Ekoli-Edda community, in the Afikpo South Local Government Area of Ebonyi State, on Tuesday, were said to have been attacked and killed by assailants from Cross River State on their farmland. The victims were said to have been murdered while harvesting cassava on their farm when the attackers struck. The killers were reportedly said to have killed and ate up the lifeless bodies of their victims. It is reported that Ali Ugwelu village and Erei Community in the Biasa LGA of Cross River State had been locked in disagreements over the control and ownership of palm tree plantation. Though the police in the state had denied knowledge of the killing and eating of five bodies of cassava harvesters, there should be investigation to unravel whatever happened. One thing is sure though. Some unbelievable occurrences had occurred in the country that would not make not make Eavesdropper shudder over this development. It will be a good thing if the perpetrators are arrested and made to face the full wrath of the law. Such individuals don’t deserve to occupy the same space with humankind. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com