Amidst the increasing rate of drug abuse among undergraduates in the country, DAYO OJERINDE speaks to experts on how to curb the menace On June 24, 2021, the entire country was dumbfounded as the Lagos State Police Command paraded a 21-year-old undergraduate of the University of Lagos, Chidinma Ojukwu, who narrated how she stabbed the Chief Executive Officer of Super TV, Usifo Ataga, to death in the Lekki area of the state. Chidinma and Ataga reportedly lodged in a service apartment in the Lekki area of Lagos State and the corpse of the latter was discovered the following day in the room and the former fled, thus raising suspicion of her complicity in his death. Upon her arrest, Chidinma attributed her action to the influence of hard drugs and alcohol. The PUNCH had on April 21, 2021, reported that a 300-level student of a university, Rhoda Agboje, and her boyfriend, Ifeanyi Nwankwo, were arrested by operatives of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency for allegedly selling drugged cookies to schoolchildren and other unsuspecting members of the public. It was reported that Agboje was arrested at the NNPC Cooperative Estate in Abuja after she allegedly gave a young girl drugged cookies to eat, which made the victim lost her mind and unable to sleep. On June 23, it was also reported that the management of the Ignatius Ajuru University of Education, Port Harcourt, Rivers State, had suspended an undergraduate, Chimara Prince, after he was arrested with sacks of Indian hemp on the campus. The Vice-Chancellor of the institution, Prof Ozo-Mekuri Ndimele, in a statement, alleged that the student was selling the substance on the campus. Ndimele said Chimara, who also smokes weed in the hostel, was nabbed following a tip-off by fellow students, who alerted the institution’s security men. Experts have linked the increasing involvement of students of universities and polytechnics to hard drug consumption. Psychiatrist seeks cause of drug abuse among teenagers, undergraduates A psychiatrist and mental health advocate, Dr Maymunah Kadiri, in an interview with our correspondent, said finding the root cause of the menace would do more good than just seeking to end it. She said, “Drug abuse has been a recurring problem among students of tertiary institutions, who constitute a large number of teenagers and young adults. From anecdotal evidence, quite a large number of students that abuse drugs in tertiary institutions started right from their secondary school days. “Therefore, tackling drug abuse in our universities is not just what is required, but finding out what is causing the increase of the menace in the institutions. At what level do they have the highest percentage of students with drug abuse and what measures can be taken to reduce it?” The expert advocated the creation of drug-free clubs in tertiary institutions and periodic campus sensitisation on the effect of drug abuse. Kadiri stated, “Symposiums should be held with tertiary institutions management and the teaching staff by mental health workers to sensitise the students to the need to promote healthy living and reduce drug abuse. “Others are media outreaches through the campus radio or other media outlets within the institutions; and setting up of functional counselling units within the institutions, where communication can be rolled out to students easily. Also, ensuring that the counsellors are well equipped on supporting those in need. “There is also a need for capacity building for the counsellors on campus to give holistic psychosocial support to students; and peer support club or student ambassadors to help with communication and act as role models within the institutions. “The institutions should go further to set up mental health facilities that will see to drug screening tests for all new and returning students on resumption. The school authorities can also conduct random drug screening at all levels and at any time to help triage those that need help. “Any student found to be positive for a drug test should be made to go for a compulsory rehabilitation programme supervised by mental health workers.” She also urged lecturers to conduct consistent research into drug abuse prevalence in their institutions in order to know what factors could be influencing such problems among their students. The psychiatrist added, “Collaboration with non-governmental organisations should be encouraged to help with these outreaches, campaigns and even rehabilitation. “Parents, guardians and caregivers should be encouraged to pay close attention to their children and wards, especially during the teenage years, and seek guidelines on how their children can steer away from drug abuse. Intentional parenting should be the order of the day.” Parenting styles, culture must be tailored towards moral – Psychologist A consultant psychologist, Dr Adebimpe Oluwafisayo, while corroborating Kadiri, urged parents to teach their children morals. She said, “Parenting styles and parenting culture must be tailored towards morals, the attitude should be proper guidance, mentoring, and inculcating values and tenets that are socially acceptable. “Parents should also make sure they allow their children or wards to be free and be expressive with them. Dysfunctional families should also be discouraged. Parents should also create time despite their busy schedules and ensure that they monitor the activities their children engage in and who they relate or mingle with. “Also, parents should endeavour to avoid too much criticism of their children; rather, they should take them through a subtle way of correcting. If care is not taken, young adults have tendencies of seeking solace and exploring negative suggestions. “Drug abuse counselling vis-à-vis constant communication should start from our respective homes. Youth empowerment should be encouraged by the government and non-governmental organisations.” 36 million people suffered from drug use disorders in 2020 – UN According to the 2021 World Drug Report, released by the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, around 275 million people used drugs worldwide in the last year, while over 36 million suffered from drug use disorders in the same period. The report further noted that in the last 24 years, cannabis potency had increased by as much as four times in parts of the world, even as the percentage of adolescents, who perceived the drug as harmful, fell by as much as 40 per cent, despite evidence that cannabis use is associated with a variety of health and other harms, especially among regular long-term users. The report read in part, “According to the latest global estimates, about 5.5 per cent of the population aged between 15 and 64 have used drugs at least once in the past year, while 36.3 million people, or 13 per cent of the total number of persons, who use drugs, suffer from drug use disorders. “Globally, over 11 million people are estimated to inject drugs, half of whom are living with Hepatitis C. Opioids continue to account for the largest burden of disease attributed to drug use.” The new report added, “Drug markets have swiftly resumed operations after the initial disruption at the onset of the pandemic; a burst that has triggered or accelerated certain pre-existing trafficking dynamics across the global drug market. “Among these are: increasingly larger shipments of illicit drugs, a rise in the frequency of overland and waterway routes used for trafficking, greater use of private planes for the purpose of drug trafficking, and an upsurge in the use of contactless methods to deliver drugs to end-consumers. “The resilience of drug markets during the pandemic has demonstrated once again traffickers’ ability to adapt quickly to changed environments and circumstances. The report also noted that cocaine supply chains to Europe are diversifying, pushing prices down and quality up and thereby threatening Europe with a further expansion of the cocaine market. This is likely to widen the potential harm caused by the drug in the region. “The number of new psychoactive substances emerging on the global market fell from 163 in 2013 to 71 in 2019. This reflects trends in North America, Europe and Asia. The findings suggest national and international control systems have succeeded in limiting the spread of the NPS in high-income countries, where the NPS first emerged a decade ago.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com