The winner of Nigerian Idol Season Six, Kingdom Kroseide, tells TOFARATI IGE about his experience in the competition, plans for his music career and other issues At what point did you feel like you could win the competition? For me, it felt more like I was being led to do something. I was going where I was directed to go, and it was no more like a competition. I just followed the divine direction and everything yielded positive results. I was overwhelmed by the love I got outside and I saw the massive campaign people did for me to win. I felt the response I got was the best I could get from everybody, including the judges. I followed that pace and I constantly tried to be better than my previous performances. It was a competition and I wanted to win, but I neither struggled nor fought to win. Who did you feel was your strongest opponent in the competition? Everybody (in the competition) had a way of expressing music. Everyone was good but I didn’t go there to struggle with anyone. The more we moved closer to the end of the show, the more I realised I was actually in a competition. I saw myself as the main threat to myself and others. Why did you see yourself as a threat? I knew I could do a lot and I realised that was the chance to prove to everyone that I know what I teach and what I do. I had always been saying that I love to teach music and I felt it had to reflect in me. I could not afford to fumble. At the early stage, many people said I was not moving my body during performances. However, I actually moved my body well when I performed ‘Say Something’ and ‘Lion King. ’ It (not moving on stage) was something that came with the two performances after that, but I picked up again. Basically, I was my greatest competition. Most people described you as a ‘church singer.’ What is your reaction to that? Yes, I am a church singer. And, I ‘owned’ that from the beginning to the end of the show. One has to understand one’s voice and how to use it in a way that people would understand the message one is trying to pass across. In my opinion, American singers, Beyonce and H.E.R., do ‘church music.’ as well. As for me, I was only trying to pass information with my music and I thank God everybody got my messages. There would always be critics and other people saying wrong things about one, but there is a way to use criticisms to one’s advantage. I always try to use criticisms to my advantage. In which area do you think you need to develop to be a complete performer? I sing and perform too. But, there are different types of performers. It all boils down to the kind of music one does. All these have roles to play in one’s music and performance skills. One cannot come to a competition and start telling people one does not perform. I actually felt bad when I said ‘I don’t rap, I sing.’ It is not an excuse. If one cannot do something, one should work towards getting it done. If I don’t know how to do something, I would rehearse harder and get better at it. Give a glimpse into what you were doing musically before the show. I was a backup singer in the Pamela Scott music band. Some winners of music reality shows end up not having commercially successful careers. How do you intend to avoid that happening to you? Firstly, I believe it has to do with the right association. Secondly, one’s fan base is very important. I thank God for the fan base I have, and I plan to make use of them. I am just praying to get the needed support. It is not just about producing a song, one also has to have good supporters to help one push one’s songs. Also, I got advice from Timi Dakolo, who is a former winner of Nigerian Idol. He tried to prepare me for the challenges I might likely face. Thank God I listened to him and I’m still listening to him. How would you describe your style of music? Ballad. Afro is our music here, but I’m bringing out my own sound. I think my music is a cross between Johnny Drille and Timi Dakolo. How soon should your fans be expecting a song from you? I believe in creativity. In due time, I would go to the studio and do something nice. In what ways did the judges of the show impact on you and make you a better musician? I took note of everything they said and I tried to understand where they were coming from. Which artistes would you like to collaborate with? Cobhams Asuquo is one of them and I’m happy that we performed one of his songs together at the grand finale. I would also love to work with Timi Dakolo and Johnny Drille. It is my dream to work with even international artistes. At the grand finale, you spoke about how your uncle believed in you. Expatiate on that. He had always believed that I would do great singing. He has always been supportive and he bought the idea of me doing music, just like my aunty. They sponsored me when I needed to be at the audition. They’ve always been there for me; even at the last competition I participated in. Where were you based before the show? I lived in Port Harcourt (Rivers State capital). Are you considering relocating to Lagos? Yes. That would probably happen. Is there anything in your childhood that prepared you for where you are today? I loved sounds and I knew I needed to continue singing. Singing has been fun and stressful for me from the onset. I went to a military secondary school, and I remember that some of my seniors would ask me to sing lullabies for them, or I wouldn’t go to sleep. It has been good and bad. Are you interested in working with any of the contestants on the show? Yes, I am looking forward to working with any of them. What last words do you have for your fans and people who voted for you? Keep praying for me. Thank you very much for voting. I love you all from the bottom of my heart. I wish I could do exactly what you did for me. Expect a lot from me. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com