Medical and nutrition experts have said that there is no scientific evidence to the claim by some Nigerians that the consumption of dog meat cures malaria. The experts urged Nigerians with fever to first go for a medical test to confirm they have malaria and, if confirmed, seek appropriate treatment. According to them, the only known treatment option for malaria in medical practice is the use of antimalarials, advising that people must confirm that they have malaria before embarking on treatment. PUNCH HealthWise gathered that over 9,000 people around the world have signed a petition to stop Nigerians from eating dogs. The petition, which was started over a year ago by Natasha Choolun, a UK-based international animal rights activist, only began to gain momentum recently, after many Nigerians lent their voices and signatures to the campaign. The campaign, which is hosted on Change.org is titled: “Stop Nigeria’s Barbaric Dog Meat Industry”. The petitioner, Ms. Choolun, said the dog meat trade has gained economic value in Nigeria, as neighbouring countries like Niger, transport the meat into the country to meet the growing needs. However, there are some Nigerians who are against the petition. They claimed that eating dog meat cures malaria. But speaking in an interview with PUNCH HealthWise, a renowned malaria expert and researcher, Prof. OlugbengaMokuolu, said there is no link between eating dog meat and cure for malaria. Mokuolu, who is the National Technical Director at the National Malaria Elimination Programme, said, “I am not aware of any such relationship between eating dog meat and cure for malaria. “There is no rational basis for it and there is no logic from my basic knowledge. “The treatment for malaria is to use the antimalarials. Any other type of treatment is unknown to medical practice. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com