The custodian of the Esubiyi Masquerader, Fashola Esuleke, and the Chief Imam of the Kamorudeen Society, Qosim Yunus, as well as their followers, were on Monday arraigned before an Osun State Magistrate’s Court, sitting in Osogbo, on charges bordering on assault and breach of the peace. Members of the Kamorudeen Society had alleged that followers of the masquerader attacked their mosque at Oluode Aranyin Compound, Osogbo, on Sunday, June 27. During the attack, a worshipper, Moshood Salaudeen, was allegedly shot dead, while the two parties involved also claimed that their followers were injured. Appearing before Magistrate Asimiyu Adebayo, the custodian of the masquerader, Esuleke, and two of his followers, Adeosun Kola and Idowu Abimbola, were arraigned on four counts bordering on vandalisation of a mosque and damage of a vehicle belonging to a worshipper. But the leader of Kamorudeen, Yunus, was arraigned on separate six counts bordering on assault occasioning harm, alongside three other worshippers — Salawu Jimoh, Alarape Sulaiman and Raimi Saheed. The prosecutor, Abiodun Badiora, from the Ministry of Justice, said the offences committed by the seven defendants were contrary to and punishable under sections 83, 197, 355, 356(5)(6), 451 and 517 of the Criminal Law of Osun State, 2002. The defendants pleaded not guilty. Counsel for the masquerader’s camp, Abimbola Ige, and his colleague representing the Muslim worshippers, Kazeem Odedeji, both moved oral bail applications on behalf of their clients; the prosecutor did not oppose the applications. The magistrate admitted the defendants to bail in the sum of N1m with one surety each in like sum. He adjourned the matter till September 13, 2021 for hearing. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com