The Lagos State Physical Planning Permit Authority on Thursday sealed no fewer than 13 buildings while serving seven others contravention notices during an enforcement exercise within Ikeja and its environs. The exercise was conducted by the monitoring compliance unit of LASPPPA alongside officers of the Nigerian Police Force under its special operations unit as well as officials from the Lagos State Building Control Agency. Some of the buildings affected were located in Ikeja including Isaac John Street, Joel Ogunnaike Street and Sowemimo Street. The exercise also extended to Peace Estate, Maryland. Speaking on the purpose of the exercise, LASPPPA General Manager, Kehinde Osinaike, said that the exercise was necessary following repeated violation of the state’s town planning laws. Osinaike said, “We have observed over time that there are many illegal developments within GRA Ikeja and this is not good for our environment. “We have the town planning regulations and laws governing every form of physical development in the state and we have to ensure that people adhere to these regulations.” On whether prior notice was given before the exercise, Osinnaike said, “Since last year we have tried to serve all the necessary notices as provided for in the regulation including the contravention notices, stop work orders and the quit notices. “Unfortunately we are dealing with developers and property owners that are very recalcitrant who are not ready to do things according to the law and this can’t continue. “The GRA is supposed to be a well planned area. Unfortunately, because of the inordinate ambition of some developers, they’ve bastardised the area. This exercise will continue as long as people keep flouting the town planning laws.” The GM disclosed that engagements had been held with the GRA Ikeja Residents Association and some other critical stakeholders prior to the exercise. On whether demolitions would occur, he said, “It depends on the situation we meet on ground. If the situation warrants that we do a token demolition, we are not going to hesitate to do that.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com