The Africa Centre  for Disease Control and Prevention and MTN Group have launched a joint campaign, ‘One More Push,’ to urge people across the continent to continue to wear their masks, wash their hands and practise social distancing. This was made known in a press release on MTN’s Group website. Africa CDC Director, Dr John Nkengasong said, “With third and fourth waves of COVID-19 sweeping across parts of Africa, we cannot overstate the importance of everyone doing their best right now to keep the virus at bay. “This campaign aims to encourage people to keep practising the preventative measures we know can limit the spread of COVID-19.” The awareness campaign is an extension of the African Union’s ‘Adapted Africa Joint Continental Strategy for COVID-19 Pandemic’ endorsed by Africa’s Health Ministers and aligned to the ‘Prevent, Monitor and Treat’ approach. It is also an extension of the partnership between the Africa CDC and MTN, which includes the rollout of COVID-19 vaccines to health workers across the continent through the group’s $25m donation. MTN Group President and CEO Ralph Mupita, said, “One More Push is a renewed drive to encourage the public not to give up now. It asks that all of us keep our masks on, wash or sanitise our hands, and maintain a physical distance from each other until it is safe to no longer do so. In this way, we will be able to get back to the ‘old normal’ (or the best possible version of it) sooner rather than later. “The ‘One More Push’ campaign is about encouraging the people of Africa to remain vigilant in fighting COVID-19, at a time when we are experiencing new waves of infections, and vaccination progress towards herd immunity is still some time away for our people.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com