People Democratic Party and All Progressives Congress in Imo State are at dagger’s drawn following the suspension of six lawmakers of the state House of Assembly by the Speaker, Paul Emeziem. While the PDP accused the governor of the state, Hope Uzodinma, of interfering in the activities of the state legislature, the APC warned the opposition party not to drag the governor in activities of the lawmakers. At a press conference in Owerri, the state capital, the opposition party alleged that Uzodinma had eroded democracy in the state. The PDP secretary in the state, Ray Emeana, who spoke to journalists on behalf of the party said that APC lawmakers we intimidating and suppressing PDP lawmakers on the influence of the governor. The party’s scribe said, “We note with dismay that governor Uzodinma has eroded the democratic principles of separation of powers and checks and balances, arrogating to himself the combined power and authority over all the arms of government. “This party sees that action of unlawful suspension as highly undemocratic and totally unacceptable. Governor Uzodinma should allow democratic best practices to blossom and flourish in Imo State. “For the avoidance of doubt, the Peoples Democratic Party, Imo State executive committee, having fully deliberated this development states that Imo PDP is happy with the quality of representation of the members of Imo State House of Assembly of PDP extraction. Imo PDP hereby passes absolute and implicit vote of confidence on PDP members of the Imo State House of Assembly. “Imo PDP is adequately persuaded that it is not normal to suspend people before constituting a panel to hear their own account of the charges leveled against them. Having said that, we charge the Speaker, Imo State House of Assembly to do the needful and restore the Imo lawmakers that he unilaterally suspended without recourse to rule of law and due process, violating the codes of ethics and conduct of the house. “That is about the only way to douse the tension that has been mounting since the unlawful suspension was announced. A stitch in times saves nine. Responding, the Director-General of APC new media centre in the state, Cajetan Duke, said that PDP in the state had lost track and sense of direction. The APC chieftain said, “We have observed with great concern the penchant with which the leadership of the opposition People’s Democratic Party, PDP, drags the name of the governor, His Excellency Distinguished Senator Hope Uzodimma as well as our great party APC into their political misfortune. “It is obvious that the leadership of the opposition PDP has completely lost track and sense of direction, hence its proclivity to blame games and name-calling. “Contrary to the position of PDP as contained in its misleading and mischievous press statement, Uzodimma as a former lawmaker with an outstanding experience and exposure has continued to use his legislative prowess and acumen to ensure a robust and harmonious relationship between the executive arm of government and its legislative branch. “As a responsible political party, the All Progressives Congress, APC, Imo State chapter, unlike the PDP, will continue to respect the independence of the legislative arm of government and engender peaceful political atmosphere in the state. We will not allow PDP to drag us or our dear governor into their festival of lamentations. “We will always advise the leadership of PDP to look beyond its mindless attack on the people’s governor for the solution to the current affliction of its party that has led to the constant dwindling of its political fortune and relevance in Imo State and Nigeria.”