Matthew Adeleye, Ota, Ogun State: It is most disheartening to write this letter to draw the attention of the relevant agencies to the daily sufferings people go through moving around Sango Ota in Ogun State. There is no way you can understand the magnitude of the catastrophe without being there to have firsthand information. I however advise Governor Dapo Abiodun and Minister of Works, Babatunde Fashola, not to come by road but by choppers instead. Not only because of the inconvenience they are most likely to pass through due to the unimaginably terrible condition of the roads but because aggrieved people around may want to express their dissatisfaction to the leaders they think can alleviate their sufferings in that regard upon sighting their presence. Nobody gets to Ota at the moment and not ask if government or its agencies are in place at all. This reminds me of a forum about 15 years ago where an American-based Nigerian described Ota as the dirtiest place of residence she had ever been to in life. It is unfortunate the worrisome situation still remains unabated and in fact getting worse 15 years after the ugly comment. The situation keeps putting into question the essence of electing leaders into various positions. Those of us who ply the roads on a daily basis recite Psalms 91 and 23 with continuous fervent prayers not to be victims of tragic vehicular somersaults that have become the order of the day in Ota. If you don’t consider anything all, kindly consider the strategic location of Sango Ota linking Nigeria to other West Africa countries. This is not to talk of its economic importance particularly due to its proximity to Lagos State and the relatively large number of industries located in the town. The influx of people from the squeezed Lagos into Ota of course makes it densely populated. Any attempt to pay less attention to Ota or not to give it the prominence it deserves because of political reasons will certainly amount to punishing innocent Nigerians of all tribes, young and old. The situation is so bad that one is not even talking of a particular road but all roads in Ota. You can fool some people sometimes but can’t fool all people all the times. In view of the aforementioned, something has to be done fast and urgently too. Any attempt to defer kangaroo palliative till when election is approaching will certainly be catastrophic and in fact constitute a bitter pill to swallow for Ota community.