The Kano State House of Assembly has suspended the Chairman, Kano State Public Complaint and Anti-Corruption Commission, Muhuyi Magaji Rimin-Gado, for one month. The suspension of the anti-graft agency’s boss followed a petition received from the Office of the Accountant-General of the state on the refusal of Rimin-Gado to accept a chief accountant posted to the commission. The chief accountant deployed in the agency was rejected and issued with a rejection letter, according to the state Accountant-General, Alhaji Shehu Mu’azu. This necessitated the office of the accountant-general to send a petition to the state House of Assembly for its intervention on the matter. After heated deliberations on the floor of the House, it was agreed that Rimin-Gado be suspended for a period of one month to give way for investigation into the matter. The Assembly set up a committee under the leadership of the Chairman, House Committee on Public Complaints, Umar Musa Gama, to investigate the matter. Rimin-Gado ran into trouble when the state government realised that he was living a flamboyant lifestyle allegedly above his earnings. Other allegations against him include not turning in records of donations from the Open Government Policy programme as well as recovered funds not known to the government. Meanwhile, an anti-fraud group said on Monday that Rimin-Gado’s suspension violated the law that set up the anti-corruption agency. The Human and Environmental Development Agenda, in a statement signed by its Chairman, Mr Olanrewaju Suraju, said the suspension of Rimin-Gado reflected a conscious attempt to muzzle the commission and undermine its independence by the political leadership of the state. HEDA said the suspension was not only suspicious, but against the law that sets up the commission. “The suspension of Magaji (Rimin-Gado) has raised a lot of credibility problems for the Kano State House of Assembly. From all indications, the lawmakers wanted to impose a stooge on the chairman to interfere in the finances of the commission,” HEDA said. The group quoted Section 8 of the law setting up the commission, which states, “In exercising its powers under this law, the commission shall not be subjected to the direction and control of any authority.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com