The All Progressives Congress, Lagos State chapter, has inaugurated its peace and reconciliation committee, which will meet with aspirants, members and stakeholders in the state to resolve the fallout arising from the last councillorship and chairmanship primary election held on May 29. The APC state chairman, Mr Tunde Balogun, made this known on Friday, while addressing the party members during the inauguration of the members constituting the peace and reconciliation committee at the party’s secretariat on Acme Road, Ikeja. He said, “I am delighted at the quality of the membership of the committee with a wide range of experience in years of party administration and government. I will admonish them to painstakingly examine the various emerging issues with a view to making workable recommendations to engender lasting peace and cohesion towards the forthcoming elections.” The PUNCH had earlier reported that there were protests over alleged imposition of candidates by aggrieved members and aspirants in the councils in the aftermath of the primary elections. In response to this, the APC last week announced it would set up the peace and reconciliation committee that would hold sessions with aggrieved aspirants, members and leaders in their areas of jurisdiction in order to appeal, appease and advise them. The committee is split into four for ease of operations and is comprised of seven members each. According to a statement by the APC spokesperson, Mr Seye Oladejo, the committee for Lagos West Senatorial District 1 will be chaired by Abiodun Ogunleye, while Chief Sunny Ajose would serve as his deputy. The committee is to sit in the Ikeja Local Government Area. The committee for Lagos West Senatorial District 2, will be chaired by Senator Anthony Adefuye with Asipa Olusanya serving as his deputy, is to sit at Ojo LGA. The committee for Lagos East Senatorial District, chaired by Tajudeen Olusi, whose deputy is Hakeem Bamgbala, is to sit at Bariga LGA. The committee for Lagos Central Senatorial District, chaired by Rabiu Oluwa with Funsho Ologunde as deputy, will sit at the Lagos City Hall. The statement noted that the terms of reference of the inaugurated committee issued by the party included “to identify the cause(s) of dissention, chaos and disarray in the various local governments, in the aftermath of the local government primary elections. Oladejo in a statement, said, “All Lagos State APC caretaker committee members are automatic members of the committee in their respective Senatorial Districts. The committee is to submit its report on 12th July, 2021.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com