The National Health Insurance Scheme has advised federal and state governments to set aside three per cent of their health budgets for medical research. The Executive Secretary of the NHIS, Prof. Mohammed Sambo, said this at the international evidence-based health care and launch of Cochrane Nigeria in Abuja on Tuesday. Cochrane is a British international charitable organisation formed to organise medical research findings and facilitate evidence-based choices about health interventions involving health professionals, patients and policymakers. Speaking on the theme, ‘Making evidence-based health care functional in Africa’, the NHIS boss said “There is the Algiers Declaration on health system research which recommends that three per cent of the total health budget should go into the health care delivery services. So, I think the health care experts should insist that the resolution of Algiers Declaration should be implemented so that at least three per cent can be channelled from every health budget into research.” Also speaking, the Chief Medical Director, National Hospital, Abuja, Dr. Jaf Momoh, said the need for research could not be overemphasised especially during the COVID-19 pandemic, adding that the breakthrough in vaccine production was a testament to the importance of research. Momoh, therefore, commended Cochrane for holding the evidence-based conference “In terms of vaccines, research is key like you have seen in the novel coronavirus. Because the disease was new, there was no vaccine but research was accelerated by funding which led to the quick development of vaccines across the world,” he said. On the recent spike in COVID-19 infections, Momoh said the National Hospital as well as all general hospitals and teaching hospitals were prepared for a third wave. He, however, said non-pharmaceutical interventions such as washing hands and wearing masks remained the best approach. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com