The House of Representatives has decried the incessant attacks by bandits on communities in Kaduna State, urging the Federal Ministry of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, and the National Emergency Management Agency as well as other relevant agencies to immediately provide relief materials to the affected victims of the “ceaseless and violent attacks in Zango Kataf Local Government Area.” The House also urged the Federal Government to “immediately deploy more military personnel and intelligence operatives to assist and complement the operations of the ‘Safe Haven’ task force in Zango Kataf and other LGAs in the southern part of Kaduna State.” Furthermore, the House urged the government to establish a military command, battalion and/or brigade in Zango Kataf. The lawmaker representing Zango Kataf/Jaba Federal Constituency in Kaduna State at the House, Amos Magaji, had moved a motion unanimously adopted at the plenary on Wednesday, titled ‘Need to Curtail the Ceaseless Armed Bandit Attacks in Zango Kataf Local Government.’ Magaji said, “The House notes the resumed, ceaseless and wanton destruction of properties and farmlands, cold-hearted killings, countless kidnappings, boundless cattle rustling and ferocious burning of houses of residents and communities in Zango Kataf LGA of Kaduna State by alleged bandits. “The House also notes that while people of the affected communities were beginning to heave sighs of relief as bandit attacks had gone down considerably, with minor isolated cases carried out, the situation has gone back to its usual dangerous and frightening state of regular and daily incidents.” The lawmaker recalled that on July 4, 2021, bandits attacked Katsit community in Kafanchan, killed two persons, caused severe injuries to not less than 10 others, destroyed farmlands and property in the midnight raid, saying, “Such attacks have been a regular and permanent fixture in the entire Zango Kataf LGA.” He also noted that due to the resumed attacks and nefarious activities of the bandits, the people of Zango Kataf, having lost their kith and kin, farmlands, houses and property worth hundreds of millions of naira, “now live in perpetual fear and anxiety leading to massive economic deprivation, trauma and eventually health challenges.” Magaji added, “The House is worried that the constant invasion of the communities by armed bandits, who maim, brutalise, dehumanise and kill people with reckless and ferocious dimensions, has turned indigenes and residents into destitute in their ancestral homes. “The House is disturbed that the attacks on communities in Zango Kataf LGA and other neighbouring communities and towns in the entire Southern Kaduna have been on for over two years and have paralysed commerce and trade as well as food supply, not only in the affected communities but also the entire Kaduna State, North-West and North-Central zones as people from Southern Kaduna no longer go to their farmlands.”