Four persons, including two senior members of staff in the Office of the Accountant General of the Federation, were on Wednesday arraigned by the Federal Government before Justice Charles Agbaza of the Federal Capital Territory High Court in Jabi for alleged involvement in human trafficking. The two accused from the AGF office are the Chief Accountant, Innocent Bola-Audu, and Assistant Executive Officer, Cecilia Aneke. The others charged with them are Sunny Ochinyabo and his wife, Irene. The PUNCH had exclusively reported that the office of the AGF had issued queries to the two officers following a letter by the National Agency for Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons to the AGF with reference number NAPTIP/INV/OPS/2899/I dated March 9, 2021, titled: ‘Update on investigation activities: Bola Audu-Innocent, Aneke Cecilia Nkiruka’. Bola-Audu, a former President, Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria, had confirmed to The PUNCH that he was arrested by NAPTIP and detained for two weeks for alleged human trafficking, but was not told who sent a petition against him. “All I know is that I was arrested by NAPTIP, alleging that I’m suspected of trafficking in persons. They never showed me anybody who complained; they said they were still investigating me. They detained me for two weeks,” he had said. However, in the charge sheet with reference number CR/080/2021, NAPTIP alleged that they were involved in the recruitment of a 22-year-old girl, Kehinde Mustapha, from Oturkpo in Benue State into child surrogacy. Bola-Audu, Aneke and Sunny and Irene Ochinyabo were listed as defendants. They were arraigned on four counts of abuse of position of vulnerability for the purpose of the victim’s exploitation. The offences, according to the prosecution, contravened sections 13 (2) and 27 of the Trafficking in Persons (Prohibition) Enforcement and Administration Act, 2015. They all pleaded not guilty to the charges and applied for bail. Counsel for the first defendant, Samuel Zibiri (SAN), raised an application for his client to be granted bail on self recognisance as there were no circumstances that could militate against his being granted bail. A similar application for bail was argued by counsel for Sunny Ochinyabo and his wife, Oghenovo Otemu, and for Aneke, Lucky Odigie. The applications were not opposed by the counsel for NAPTIP, Dr Hassan Liman (SAN). Justice Agbaza granted each of the four accused persons bail in the sum of N10m with a surety, who must be a civil servant of not less than grade level 10 and must have evidence of residency in Abuja. The judge adjourned the case till September 22 and 23, 2021, for hearing. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com