Sigma Pensions has launched a non-interest RSA Fund VI to provide retirement savings that align with moral beliefs and values that enhance ethical investing. The fund, which got the nod of the National Pension Commission, would make the Pension Fund Administrator to position itself as a pioneer of the non-interest RSA fund also known as Fund VI, it noted. Speaking at the launch during a virtual event, the Managing Director, Sigma Pensions, Mr Dave Uduanu, said, “The launch of the Sigma Pensions Non-Interest RSA Fund VI marks another first by Sigma Pensions as we continue to blaze the trail in the Nigerian pension industry. “This product is particularly unique because for the first time ever in our market, it allows pension account holders to be able to have pension solutions that align with their beliefs and values. “We thank the National Pension Commission for opening up this window to foster financial inclusion in our country.” The Chairman, Board of Directors, Sigma Pensions Limited, Mr Mark Collier, said that the fund would drive greater financial inclusion among an underserved segment of the Nigerian population as well as deepen financial inclusion and pension enrolment. Collier said, “Sigma Pensions has launched RSA Fund VI for our esteemed customers and the general market alike for RSA account holders who are desirous of having their pensions managed along the principles of non-interest. “Having a vibrant non-interest pension offering will help deepen the breadth and sophistication of the domestic pension and non-pension fund management industry. “A key tenet of robust financial markets is the existence of many players on both demand and supply having diverse opinions, desires and needs which allow for a more efficient price setting mechanism.” He added, “Furthermore, it will help drive greater financial inclusion and pension enrollment. Nigeria’s financial exclusion rate is estimated at 37 per cent with large exclusion observed in the northern regions. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com