The  Chairman, Gateway Zone Community Development Association, Magodo GRA Phase 1, Lagos State, Oyebode Ojomu, has sought the intervention of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu in a resolution reportedly passed by the state House of Assembly directing government agencies to overrun the community and grant access for the development of an estate on the greenbelt. PUNCH Metro had reported that the state Commissioner for the Environment, Tunji Bello; Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr Idris Salako; and the New Towns Development Authority, said building on the greenbelt was illegal. However, some lawmakers, including Adedamola Kasumu, Temitope Adewale and Ganiyu Sanni, were said to be making plans to secretly approve a controversial project. Ojomu, in a statement on Monday, said the state Assembly passed a resolution directing the government to overrun the community to enable accessibility to the greenbelt. He noted that such an action could portend danger for the environment and trigger chaos on the estate. He said, “It has become imperative to call on the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, whom the buck stops at his table, to call the Speaker and House Committee on Land Matters to order. “We appeal to the governor to prevail on the legislature to face its mandatory legislative matters/business, halting it from incursion to executive functions. “We have it on good authority that the legislature passed a resolution attempting to hoodwink LASSA and NTDA, along several other agencies, to foist a premeditated selfish agenda laced with pecuniary interests to overrun our estate. “We view this unpalatable development as an abuse of office capable of eroding the peace in Magodo GRA Phase 1- Gateway Zone Estate.” Ojomu added that official declarations by government on tape and in print affirmed that the greenbelt adjoining the estate between Magodo GRA Phase 1 and 2 would never be approved for residential purposes. “So, where is the legislature leading the state, usurping executive functions and creating basis for a crisis? The Omo-Oniles should go to court if they have a strong case and not manipulate the legislative arm for selfish purposes in matters that are in the purview of the executive arm of government,” the statement added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com