A Pan-ethnic social rights group, Ogoni People’s Assembly, has issued a 14-day ultimatum to the Federal Government and the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Senator Godswill Akpabio, to commence reconstruction of the Eleme-Onne section of the East-West Road or prepare for a mass action. The group described the 15-kilometre section of the road as the busiest and most economically viable after Apapa in Lagos State due to the volume of daily traffic into major national assets, including the oil and gas free zone in Rivers State. Leader of the assembly, Probel William, in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, on Wednesday said the road was included in the projects funded by the Presidential Infrastructure Development Fund. William said when funds were to be released to contractors, Akpabio took back the project to his ministry. The assembly, comprising Ogoni-based civil society, youths, women and rights groups, urged Akpabio to return the Eleme-Onne section to the PIDF. “This road is the major access to other important federal government investments like Aluminum Smelting Plant at Ikot-Abasi, the fertilizer plant at Onn,  the two Port Harcourt Refineries, the Nigeria Liquified Natural Gas in Bonny and other large industrial complexes in Rivers, Akwa Ibom and Cross River states. “We demand that the Minister for Niger Delta Affairs immediately return the deplorable Eleme-Onne section of the East-West Road to the PIDF or look for money to commence work within 14 working days from today, the 7th of July 2021. “Failure to do this, we will be compelled to embark on a non-violent mass civil action without further reminder. The refusal of the minister (Senator Akpabio) to do anything about this Eleme-Onne section of the East-West Road has caused the Ogoni people and other Nigerians travelling through that area untold hardship. Also speaking, a member of the assembly and prominent Ogoni activist, Celestine Akpobari said, “The mass action we are talking about will include crippling economic activities in the area so that Nigeria can feel our pain.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com