African women’ employment in 2021 has decreased by 1.9 per cent between 2019 and 2020 when compared with 0.1 per cent in men’s employment, causing a persistence in inequalities between women and men in the world of work. The International Labour Organisation disclosed this on Monday in a new policy brief titled “Building forward fairer: Women’s rights to work and at work at the core of the COVID-19 recovery.” The policy brief stated that there would be 13 million fewer women in employment in 2021 compared to 2019, while men’s employment would have recovered to 2019 levels. Even though the projected job growth in 2021 for women exceeds that of men, it would, nonetheless, be insufficient to bring women back to pre-pandemic employment levels, the report said. Only 43.2 per cent of the world’s working-age women will be employed in 2021, compared to 68.6 per cent of working-age men. The report stated, “Recovery prospects are particularly positive for women, whose employment is expected to rise by 4.7 per cent between 2020 and 2021, more than offsetting pandemic-related job losses. “As a result, in 2021, the employment rate for women in Africa is projected to reach 48.7 per cent, which will be the highest across regions, and men’s employment rate is projected to stand at 66.2 per cent. “The combination of ascribed gender roles, limited expansion of the services and manufacturing sectors, and lack of care services have contributed to women leaving paid work around the age of 25, which coincides with marriage. “Conversely, in sub-Saharan Africa, the employment-to-population ratio for women is projected to remain among the highest in the world in 2021 at 57.1 per cent.” The brief also said that gender-responsive strategies should be at the core of the recovery effort. These include investing in the care economy to encourage a more even division of work at home between women and men and working towards universal access to comprehensive, adequate and sustainable social protection for all to reduce the current gender gap in social protection coverage. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com