For how long have you been married? Officially, we have been married for 25 years. It’s a bit not so straightforward. I met my wife in 1989, from then we became friends and thereafter became live-in lovers.  We formalised our marriage in 1996 after she had completed her University education. Before then we were already living together and had children. How did you meet your wife? I met her while I was at Abeokuta, Ogun State. She just completed secondary school and was pursuing A levels when we met. We started somehow and it eventually ended up in marriage. What attracted you to her? I saw that she had for her good home training.  I saw love and true Africanness in her and that made me marry her. What vital lessons has marriage taught you? So far, I will agree with anybody that marriage is an institution ordained by God for every couple to know each other. It is a school where one continues to learn every day. One can never know it all.  One will keep knowing new sides of one’s partner every day. What is your advice for singles intending to marry soon? Single people who are planning to marry should be careful in choosing who they will go with to the institution. As I said earlier, it is an institution that has no graduation date.  You have to continue in that school till death do you apart. Human beings are different. Even when you’re from the same background, there is no guarantee that you will behave the same way. I tell people that two things are important in marriage; the first is tolerance and the second is also tolerance. Everybody should learn how to tolerate each other. There is no paradigm of perfection. Man will definitely goof and the woman will also do the same. If you both start to look at perfection from your own view, you won’t get it right.  You have to accommodate each other’s imperfections and help one another to be better. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com