The umbrella body of Yoruba Self-Determination Groups, Ilana Omo Oodua, has alleged that operatives of the Department of State Services shot and butchered an associate of Yoruba activist Sunday Adeyemo also known as Sunday Igboho when they raided the activist’s Ibadan residence on Thursday. The group led by ex-Senator Banji Akintoye claimed that the secret shot Saheed Adisa popularly called Adogan 48 times before they butchered him to death. “This is the face of a true warrior. His name is Adogan. He took 48 bullets to his body and was still standing like a fearless Ikoyi Eso. When bullets failed the DSS, they had to slam a mortal on his head, butchering him to death. “While DSS operatives were butchering Adogan, Majasola Igboho Oosa (May peace and blessings of Eedua always be with him) had made his exit to fight another day. “It was said that Adogan’s body was so brutally decapitated by the DSS that they were ashamed to leave his body behind. They whisked his body away, but his blood literally trailed them from Chief Igboho’s living room to the DSS headquarters in Abuja. Trust me, we will take our revenge. RIP my good brother! No going back on Yoruba nation. Lagos rally goes on, as planned, tomorrow. Ifa Dare,” the group posted on social media. The PUNCH had earlier reported that mourners have been visiting the Osogbo, Osun State country home of Adogan, who died during the DSS raid alongside Igboho’s maternal uncle known as Alfa. Adogan is survived by an aged mother, wife, three children and siblings. The DSS had on Thursday evening paraded 13 of Igboho’s guards and close associates in Abuja. The DSS also said it killed two of his associates in a gun duel with the secret police. The two men were later identified as Adogan and Alfa. Though Igboho had escaped the raid, his house and cars were riddled with bullets while bloodstains splattered over the floors of the house. The secret police have since declared Igboho wanted. The activist is being accused of stockpiling weapons to destabilise the country under the guise of agitation for Yoruba nation.