The House of Representatives, on Thursday backed the Federal Government on the ban placed on Twitter. The lawmakers voted out a prayer asking the government to lift the ban while considering the report by the joint committee mandated by the House to investigate the matter. The report had divided the lawmakers, with some members of the House criticising the report for failing to address the main issues. The Committees on Information, National Orientation, Ethics and Values; Telecommunications; Information and Technology; Justice; and National Security and Intelligence had laid its report on the investigation on Wednesday. At the plenary on Thursday, the joint committee was silent on whether the ban should be lifted or not. It recommended “that time be allowed for the Federal Government of Nigeria and Twitter to enter into the dialogue process that is already ongoing, to create room for amicable settlement on the matter.” It added, “That relevant government Institutions such as National Broadcasting Commission, Nigeria Communication Satellite, etc, should be alive to their mandate by doing the needful to avoid future occurrence of this nature. “The Federal Government should take into cognisance the negative effect of the Twitter suspension on Nigerians who depends on the platform for their livelihood. “The freedom of expression is not absolute anywhere in the world. This is because security and freedom of expression sometimes present contending interests. Therefore, national security must be guaranteed at all times as much as the right to free speech must be protected.” While Chairman of the joint committee, Olusegun Odebunmi was presenting the report, the Deputy Speaker, Ahmed Wase, who presided over the Committee of the Whole for consideration of the report, interjected him, saying, “I’m sorry, I will beg that we step down this report.” Wase added that no member of the committee signed the report.” Odebunmi, however, said the original copy signed by members was not the one copied to members. The Deputy Speaker was then provided a copy of the signed version, but he asked if the panel engaged the National Security Adviser, Maj.-Gen. Babagana Monguno (retd.), on the matter. Odebunmi, who did not answer the specific question, said all committees were represented during the exercise. Not sacrificed, the Deputy Speaker noted that the committee did not explore all the avenues before we come back to the floor. The Deputy Minority Leader, Toby Okechukwu, criticised the report, noting that there were clear instructions on what the committee should do such as determining the legal authority for the ban and inviting the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed. Okechukwu said, “None of the five recommendations has answered any of the questions.” The Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, who sat on the floor, noted that the committee met with Mohammed, adding, “I think it is uncharitable, to try and lampoon the work done by the committee.” Gbajabiamila asked those who were not satisfied with the report to amend the recommendations. Okechukwu prayed the House to amend the second prayer and ask the government to lift the ban. The prayer was rejected. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com