…Dismisses claims of increase in deaths from CS complications The President of the Nigerian Medical Association, Prof. Innocent Ujah says the number of pregnant women delivering their babies through cesarean section is increasing in Nigeria. The NMA boss, however, dismissed claims that deaths from the surgical procedure are on the rise. Ujah, who is a professor of obstetrics and gynecology, said the increase is due to repeat procedures. Speaking with PUNCH HealthWise in an exclusive interview, the consultant obstetrician and gynecological surgeon said claims that more pregnant women are dying from complications during and after CS are completely off the mark. Ujah was reacting to a recent claim by a member of the House of Representatives, SergiusOgun, that no less than 300,000 women die annually in Nigeria as a result of CS procedures, citing a medical survey. Ogun had, in a motion titled: “Need to Stop the Spate of Maternal Mortality Resulting from Caesarian Operations in Nigeria”, which was adopted by the House, said the country was witnessing a rise in the rate of maternal mortality caused by CS. “The House is concerned that the incidences of maternal mortality occasioned by caesarean operations are on the rise, with the latest medical survey revealing that no less than 300,000 women die annually in Nigeria as a result of the procedure. “The House is also concerned that there is no vigorous effort on the part of the government to stem the tide of maternal mortality through provision of quality healthcare facilities. “The House is worried that if the situation is left unattended to, the country may end up losing an alarming number of mothers in the process of childbirth”, Ogun had said. But the NMA president told PUNCH Healthwise that although the lawmaker failed to disclose the source of the medical survey, it is untrue that over 300,000 women die from CS in Nigeria annually. Ujah said, “What he said is not true. What is the total number of maternal deaths in Nigeria that you will have over 300,000 deaths from CS? I don’t agree with that figure. “He needed to have quoted his source but I know that it is not true. Maternal deaths from CS in Nigeria are not significant at all. “If he says the number of CS is increasing, yes, I will all agree, but I can’t agree to the claim that death from CS was increasing. To say that 300,000 maternal deaths occur from CS annually is a lie. Our total maternal mortality rate is not up to 300,000.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com