Over the years, sportsmen have faltered during the course of their career and a handful of them have been known to tender apologies to their fans, with some people taking such apologies with a pinch of salt. Just recently, Nigerian-born New Orleans Saints defender, David Onyemata, apologised after his six-game ban by the National Football League. Reports on the NFL Network and the league website said the suspension was for six games for a violation of the league’s performance-enhancing substance policy. The PUNCH highlights five top apologies by sportsmen. New Orleans Saints defensive tackle, Onyemata, was banned by the NFL after testing positive for a banned substance. Reports on the NFL Network and the league website said the suspension was for six games for a violation of the league’s performance-enhancing substance policy. Reacting to the ban on Friday, Onyemata said, “While I was certainly surprised and disappointed with this news, I am responsible for what I put in my body.” “Regardless, I am committed to being more aware of any medication and dietary supplements that may contain substances banned by the NFL,” he added. Third baseman for New York Yankees, Alex Rodriguez, was in 2014, involved with intake of performance-enhancing drugs. As a result, he served a season-long suspension. However, in February 2015, the baseman made a public apology to his fans with a hand-written letter. It partly read, “I take full responsibility for the mistakes that led to my suspension for the 2014 season. I regret that my actions made the situation worse than it needed to be. To Major League Baseball, the Yankees, the Steinbrenner family, the Players Association and you, the fans, I can only say I’m sorry.” Yankee first baseman, Giambi, was accused of using illegal steroids which he acknowledged in December 2004 before a grand jury. In February 2005, Giambi said, “I feel I let down the fans. I feel I let down the media; I feel I let down the Yankees, and not only the Yankees, but my teammates.” “I know the fans might want more. But because of all the legal matters, I can’t get into specifics. Someday, hopefully, I will be able to.” In 1999, Atlanta Braves closer, John Rocker, made comments during an interview with Sports Illustrated which offended lots of people including gays, AIDs patients, single mothers, ex-convicts and immigrants. His comments offended lots of people and almost cost him his career. However, in a first-person essay for The Atlanta Journal-Constitution, he apologised for his comments. “The family of my best friend is first-generation Lebanese. His grandfather came through Ellis Island. As you can see, my actions do not support the racist label,” he had written, in defence of his racist comments. In 1997, boxer Mike Tyson, bit off and spat out a piece of Evander Holyfield’s ear during a boxing match. This act led to his disqualification from the fight. Apologising for his actions, Tyson said, “I’m only saddened that the fight didn’t go on further than that — for that the boxing fans of the world might have seen for themselves who would come out on top.”