Former Wimbledon star, John Fashanu, says Tammy Abraham and Fikayo Tomori were both wrong in their decision to choose England ahead of Nigeria, if they wanted regular playing time at international level. The duo were excluded from Gareth Southgate’s squad for next month’s Euros. Both players, who are of Nigerian descent, snubbed the Nigeria Football Federation’s proposal to play for the Super Eagles and pledged their allegiances to the Three Lions. Abraham has six appearances since he made his debut in an international friendly against Germany in 2017, while Tomori only saw six minutes of action in his debut game against Kosovo in 2019. Fashanu, who made just two appearances for England, though refused to blame the players, said playing for Nigeria would have guaranteed the duo more playing time. “I am saying this to all footballers who are waiting to play for England or Nigeria, don’t make the same mistake twice,” Fashanu told The PUNCH. “Some 20 years ago, when I was given the opportunity, you can say on one side it was wrong because I didn’t get the longevity playing for England due to so many excellent players in the English team. I could have played for Nigeria but if I had played for Nigeria I wouldn’t receive any financial compensation. “If you want to play and have longevity, choose Nigeria because it is so sure that they will never get a consistent run of matches playing for England; that is not possible. But many players of Nigerian descent are not aware of this. “If you play for England and you are in England you are entitled to a pension, which is very important for a family man. Every footballer who played for England should be earning a nice pension now, but those who played for other countries are still working for money.” He added, “England is where the money is but psychologically the love of your country is also important. I can say if I get another shot next time, I will definitely play for Nigeria, the love of my life and that’s why I’ve been here for 14 years.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com