TigerWit Africa has shared insightful nuggets to get started into the world of forex trading and why platforms backed by blockchain technology are the difference makers in the forex market. The Head of Marketing, Tigerwit Africa, Mr. Kennedy Adetayo, said this during a virtual briefing with newsmen in Lagos State. He said, “When finding out about trading Forex, most of the information either makes it seem like a get-rich-quick scheme or too complicated to understand.” While acknowledging the issue of the safety of forex platforms, Adetayo highlighted some things beginners should look out for in forex trading. He, however, listed basic introduction to get beginners on the way to master trading. They include knowing your currency pairs: Forex trading, which is about the simultaneous purchase of one currency and sale of another and could be the difference between making a profit or a loss. Others are learning with demo accounts with about 10,000 dollars; find a reliable service provider; use free tools and guides; and do some independent analysis. “Trading platforms that use secure technology like blockchain are best to secure your funds. This is why we can say we are one of the safest platforms to trade forex in Nigeria,” he emphasised. The Forex expert hinted that knowing when to enter a trade is often based on how much information one has that others do not. He said, “Research like the experts’ read what they are reading. The TigerWit blog has brilliant analysis that would nudge you in the right direction.” Giving reasons TigerWit’s Blockchain Technology makes Forex trading better, Adetayo outlined low platform risk, saying, “This because blockchain transactions require the ownership of assets or funds by either party, there are hardly any credit or liquidity risks.” “One of Blockchain technology’s main strengths is cryptographic encryption. The technology offers encryptions that are almost impossible to crack with the existing technologies, making your trade safe every time,” he hinted.