Global Credit Ratings, one of the rating agencies in Africa, has assigned the Development Bank of Nigeria a “AAA” Long-Term National Scale rating. A statement titled ‘GCR assigns triple “AAA” long term rating to DBN’ said this on Thursday. The statement said the conferment, which was the highest rating for financial institutions, was in line with the risk-free rating of the Nigerian sovereign and attested to DBN’s strong fundamentals and credibility. The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Development Bank of Nigeria, Mr Tony Okpanachi, said, “We are pleased with this debut rating of “AAA”, with a stable outlook, from GCR, one of the foremost rating agencies in Africa. “We appreciate the rigorous and diligent assessment of GCR as it provides an additional layer of independent review of our governance and risk management practice, ESG principles, and broader management of the institution. “More importantly, the outcome of the rating exercise, as expressed in our “AAA” national scale rating, is a testament to our balance sheet capacity, quality of the risk asset portfolio, and sound risk management practice. ‘‘We would continue to adhere to global best practice in market interventions, as we remain committed to alleviating financing constraints faced by MSMEs and small corporates in Nigeria, through the provision of financing and partial credit guarantees to eligible financial intermediaries on a market-conforming and fully financially sustainable basis.” DBN’s Executive Director, Finance/Corporate Services, Mrs Ijeoma Ozulumba, said, “This credit rating reflects the strong credibility of the bank, as we continue to preserve our strong fundamentals.” Ozulumba said the bank would consolidate its lending activities while maintaining strong capitalisation, stable funding, and robust liquidity. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com