Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, has cautioned traditional rulers to desist from causing unnecessary trouble over appointment of chiefs in their domain. Akeredolu said the government would not hesitate to deal decisively with any traditional ruler caught indulging in act of lawlessness. He gave the warning on Saturday in Ikare Akoko, the headquarters of Akoko North East Local Government Area of the state on Saturday, at the occasion of official presentation of instrument of appointment and staff of office to Owa-Ale of Ikare-Akoko, Oba Adeleke Adegbite-Adedoyin The stool of Owa-Ale of Ikare-Akoko became vacant following the demise of Oba Samuel Adegbite-Adedoyin on September 1, 2020. The governor, who was represented by his Deputy, Lucky Aiyedatiwa, stated that any traditional ruler that was dissatisfied with any decision on chieftaincy matters should seek redress in the court of law instead of taking laws into their hands. He urged the newly installed monarch to exhibit high level of integrity in the discharge of his responsibility and should focus his attention on his area of jurisdiction in the ancient town. He said, “At this juncture, I wish to express my utmost displeasure over the recent mayhem that erupted in this community over the removal and subsequent appointment of the new Olokoja. “We are all aware of the current state of insecurity in this country, therefore, under no circumstance shall we tolerate another wave of killing of innocent citizens and wanton destruction of properties over any security issue in the community, much less of any minor chieftaincy matter.” Expressing assurance that security of all residents of the state was his priority, Akeredolu said, “We are making efforts to rid our communities of miscreants and criminals.” In his remarks, the newly installed Owa-Ale of Ikare Akoko, Oba Adeleke Adegbite-Adedoyin II, appreciated the governor for fatherly and leadership role he displayed in maintaining peace in Ikare land. Oba Adedoyin, who apologised to the governor on recent the crisis in the town, pledged to continue speaking with his people to be more peaceful and tolerant to avoid future occurrence. “Going memory lane, this is the 18th Owa-Ale in lkare sinee my progenitors migrated from lle-lfe, the ancestral home of the Yoruba people. Permit me to mention that Obaship assignment, like any other leadership role, is a call to selfless service. “Having accepted my unanimous selection to assume the throne of my forefathers and lead the good people of Ikare Land as the Owa-Ale Adimula, I promise, by God’s grace, not to disappoint you,” he said.