The coronavirus pandemic is still very much with us and there is still a lot of human suffering attendant to this particular infection in a great number of countries. There remains a serious situation in countries such as India, Brazil, Mexico, and Turkey. In some other countries in Europe, previously falling rates of infection have shown an upward trend of late. South Africa has also suffered greatly under the weight of its own home-grown strain. Yet, there is significant vaccine hesitancy among our own people for reasons based on an inadequate understanding of the science behind the manufacture and testing of drugs to the sinister views about various conspiracy theories surrounding the virus as part of their reasons for refusing to take the vaccine. Others maintain, unfortunately, that the vaccine development was rushed and the products, therefore, are unsafe for their use. In one viral video clip a reader sent to me, people who had taken the vaccine were shown to be able to attract magnets at their vaccination sites as a result of some magnetic microchips inserted at the injection point. As part of the mandate of this page, it was considered necessary to clear the air regarding how vaccines and drugs come into being. There are several stages of drug development or drug trial which reflect on how to test new methods of making a diagnosis of a health condition, treating it, and preventing it. The major goal is to determine whether the said drug is both safe and effective. Before a clinical trial is conducted, the researchers do what is known as pre-clinical trials using animal models. Laboratory mice are famous for this aspect of drug and vaccine investigation. Sometimes, guinea pigs are also made use of just as effectively as monkeys in some cases. In addition, human cell cultures can also be used at some point, in a laboratory, to determine whether these medications or medical combinations are toxic to such human or animal samples. This study will include the application of medical devices and the determination of new uses, if possible, for existing medications. This latter aspect of drug trials was very instructive in the important announcement made early this year that an old drug used in the treatment of filariasis had been found to be effective against COVID-19. This was an important milestone in the fight against the virus in poor countries. The different phases of clinical trials begin from zero in some cases and run through to phase 4. If you add the pre-clinical phase of the trials, such developments would have been through six different levels of serious work done to ensure that such medications are safe for human beings. With these steps, it can be appreciated that the development of the various vaccines may have seemed unduly hasty because new technologies were available for their production but that the processes were not side-stepped or short-circuited. Therefore, in Phase 0 of a clinical trial, a very small number of persons is recruited for the study. The number is often less than 15. A small dose of the medication or vaccine as the case may be is used on those people and evidence is diligently sought to ensure that it is not harmful. Once that is ensured, the dose can be progressively increased during the later phases of the trial. However, if some unexpected reaction occurs which is different from what is expected, the researchers involved in the study will return to the laboratory for some additional pre-clinical investigation after which they will decide whether the trial should go ahead or stop. In Phase 1, the team of researchers will be looking at the effects of this particular medication or vaccine on a larger group of people ranging from 20 to 80, over a number of months. During this period, it is important to determine the highest dose of the medication that each person can tolerate without serious side effects. As a result of this very important requirement, people who participate in this stage of the trial should be healthy individuals with no previous health condition that may make them unsuitable candidates for the study. These participants are very closely monitored during this phase to determine what sort of reactions they might have. In addition, the ideal dosage can then be reached and the best way to deliver the drug can then also be identified. It is at this stage it can be concluded whether a drug is to be administered by mouth, or by injection or under the tongue, or as a cream. And if it is an injection, it is useful to know how this can happen, and whether it is going to be intramuscular or intradermal or subcutaneous or intravenous. If all these indices are safely checked off, the trial can then proceed to Phase 2. More than two-thirds of all medical products go on to Phase 2. In Phase 2, therefore, the confidence level is boosted sufficiently to recruit a few hundred participants who already have the condition the new medication is tailored to treat. Therefore, their consent must be obtained and they are duly informed in the language they understand well of what this entails. They are then given the dose that was found to be safe in Phase 1, and they are then closely monitored over a period of several months or even years so as to see the effectiveness of the drug and determine any further side effects that may occur. Considering the huge population of the world, which is in the billions, the data collected from a few hundred people are still not considered as representative enough of the potential of any medication or vaccine. It is not considered to be sufficiently large to demonstrate the overall safety profile of a drug but the information it gives out is considered very crucial as it then helps to direct investigators to design the useful methods necessary to conduct Phase 3 of the trial. According to the United States Food and Drug Administration, about one-third of medications are able to move on to Phase 3. The aim of the Phase 3 trial is to determine how the new medication being evaluated compares to others already in use for treating the same condition. Therefore, it must be determined at this point whether this new medicine is as safe as, or even safer than the current medications in use. This aspect of the drug is reached by doing what is known as a randomized study in which some people are chosen in no particular order to receive the new medication while others are made to use any of the current ones in use. When no current drug or vaccine is in use, as we have seen in this pandemic, some participants receive the vaccine while others of similar age and general physical condition do not. During this phase, a double-blind trial is used which means that neither the investigator nor the participant knows what they have been given. When this is ensured, there can be no bias in the analysis of the results obtained. The number of participants in this phase is much larger than any of the previous ones, the duration of the study is also longer, and the appearance of the side effects which may be rare and long term are known at this stage. In the case of the coronavirus pandemic, the phase 3 trial has not been as long as it should be which is why a lot of the long-term side effects were not known as of the time several of them were approved for use. About one-quarter of all medications move on from here to Phase 4 trials. This phase involves the largest number of participants and 20,000 to 40,000 can be recruited into the pilot studies at this stage sometimes in different individual countries at the same time. This enables the rapid evaluation of the results obtained and a more representative notion of the behaviour of any medication or vaccine before it is considered safe enough for approval for the larger society. This is essentially what was done before the various vaccines were approved in different countries for the vaccination of their populations. Other than the exigencies created by time, due to mass suffering and death, no corners were cut. Dear doctor, God bless you sir for your medical solutions to enquiries. I am grateful for the advice you gave concerning my granddaughter’s inability to talk well. My daughter followed through and we are seeing some improvements.  My other concern now is in respect of my younger daughter who was jilted by her lover because of an operation she had for an ovarian cyst. The cyst was taken out of her, and I am asking if her womb was affected. The girl did not tell me anything; she is an introvert. Will she be able to have children if eventually, she gets another partner? Thanks, sir. 0811xxxxxxx Thank you very much for your kind words. While I do not remember the specific case you have mentioned, we on this page appreciate you very much for the feedback we get especially from readers like you. Continue following up on your granddaughter’s treatment and you will be proud at the end of what you have done. As for your daughter who had surgery, it is most unusual for the womb to be affected by an operation for an ovarian cyst. She will be able to have children as long as the other ovary is normal. Dear doctor, thank you for your great work; medical journalism. The Lord will continue to bless you. Amen. I am 67 years old, male, and five days ago, I discovered a swelling at the top right-hand side of my groin. The swelling has been on and off; without pains except when I lie down on my tummy. Also, I urinate effortlessly and my fasting blood sugar level last week was 88mg/dl. What is this and how serious is it? Kindly advise me on what to do. God bless you. 0705xxxxxxx Thank you very much, sir. You are very kind. At your age, you seem to be in very good health judging from your story. The swelling you have described at the top right-hand side of your groin is most likely to be a hernia. This is a fairly common problem for men in your age group and it often develops as the muscles in that area are slowly replaced by fat due to age. It is potentially dangerous if it is ignored because it can become impeded such that intestines become trapped inside it thereby turning it into an emergency problem. At this point, I would urge you to visit your regular doctor for an examination to confirm what this is and refer you as appropriate to the surgeon who will repair this hernia. Definitely, it has to be corrected through an operation. Dear doctor, I am 18 years old. Since when I was young, I have had big, big pimples on my face. I have heard people saying that it is a sign of maturity but I started experiencing it when I was eight years old. Please doctor, what drug can I use to cure it? Thanks.                   0904xxxxxxx Thank you very much for your question. You are still young and it is common to find this sort of problem among people of your age. However, you did not disclose your gender as this also has a bearing on how severe this issue is and what time you might have to attend to it. As a rule, girls will be more concerned about how their face looks and will be able to devote a lot more time than boys in caring for it. This is not really a problem for one drug to eliminate but one in which you will have to pay a lot of attention to the use of cleansing lotions, appropriate types of soap that can wash off the excess oils which block the pores on your face and a good moisturising cream. These will help you more than any drug I can recommend. Dear doctor, this is just to inform you that there is a Geriatric unit now in the University College Hospital, Ibadan, Oyo State. I am responding to your article of May 9. Keep up the good work of informing and educating the masses.                            0803xxxxxxx That is really wonderful news Prof. Thank you so very much for this bit of information, and your invaluable contribution. We appreciate you very much for this contribution. Enjoy your weekend. Dear doctor, you are good and God will bless and preserve you. I shall go to General Hospital Marina or the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Ikeja. I will be grateful if you would spare a minute to explain the concept of the apparatus located in the ear. Thank you and have a good weekend please. 0808xxxxxxx Thank you very much for your comments. The apparatus that is responsible for your ability to maintain your balance is called the vestibular system and it is located in the inner ear. The inner ear is not what you can see: it is made up of several structures and passages which are connected in a system known as a labyrinth. You know a labyrinth is essentially a maze, like a series of tunnels within a cave. This system is made up of a series of semi-circular canals because they are arranged at different angles and are half-cycles that contain receptors which send specific information through a dedicated nerve that is responsible for that purpose. When they work together, you can maintain your balance without effort and also have situational awareness such that you do not lose orientation. When something happens to any of the component parts, dizziness, blackouts, stumbling and falling and even vomiting can all occur. Dear doctor, I am a 54-year-old woman who was found to be having a high blood pressure of 178/100mmHg last week. I was feeling dizzy and could not stand so I called one of my church members who is a nurse. I also had a headache. She gave me three different tablets and the next day, the blood pressure became 171/110mmHg and the headache reduced but I still feel dizzy up till now. On Wednesday, my husband took me to a private hospital near our house and the doctor said I would do an X-Ray, MRI, and Echo scan. He also took my blood for many tests. He said the tests were necessary before I can get treatment but I don’t have money. MRI alone is #80,000. What should I do now doctor? My children are still small. I don’t want to die now please. 0803xxxxxxx Thank you very much for your question. What you have engaged in prior to getting a doctor to examine you is frankly dangerous. It is entirely possible that even the nurse you called is not a trained nurse otherwise she would have offered you better advice. In the meantime, while the various tests you listed above are important, they do not prevent you from being started on a medication that will bring down your blood pressure in a safe way while the blood tests are being conducted. If there is no money for now for the other investigations, they can frankly wait until later when the money can be sourced. At this time, and with a blood pressure like this, you should be admitted to the hospital for proper monitoring because you are at risk of suffering a stroke or a heart attack. Dear doctor, you wrote some time ago about a hole in the tooth and recommended various ways of dealing with it. I just discovered I have a hole in one of my teeth but there is no pain. I am still able to chew with that side but of late, when I eat something sugary, the sensation I get is unpleasant, like a combination of pain and itching. I also now have a mouth odour which only reduces when I am able to remove food particles lodged in the hole, especially meat. What should I do? 0802xxxxxxx The damage to your teeth occurs a little at a time over a period of years. This particular hole has taken some time to develop and the fact that you now experience all these things is an indication that the cavity is getting deeper. It is advised very strongly that you visit a dental surgeon as soon as possible for a proper examination which will include X-Rays. Treatment after such an examination will do you a lot of good. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com