THE Caretaker/ National Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressives Congress, is considering a 60-to-70-member strong convention planning committee The PUNCH has learnt. Our correspondent gathered in Abuja, on Sunday that while the Mai Mala Buni-led CNCPC has been putting finishing touches to the list of party officials to handle state congresses, it is also shopping for a chairman and members of its scheduled national convention. A top-ranking member of the party caucus who spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorised to speak to the media on the issue, said, “The committee is finishing touches to the list of members of the state congresses which we expect them to release within a week or two. “It is after this has been done that we expect the convention planning list to be made public. “However, because of the shortage of time, a few things may be twerked to speed up the process because considering the variables, we really don’t have time on our side.” In response to a question on the possible size of the convention committee, the source said, “We are looking at between 60 and 70, in order to accommodate as many of the tendencies within the party as possible. “Of course, as has been the tradition, serving and former governors, Senators, members of the House of Reps, serving and former as well as serving and former party leaders will be given the opportunity to serve. “Exemptions will be made for those who are interested in contesting for any of the positions to avoid a conflict of interest.” The source further said, “We are now very interested in how our congresses at the state level are held because it will determine a lot of things. Delates who will vote at the national convention will be elected from the Ward, Local Government and State levels. This is our procedure.” Another top-ranking member of the party who also spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the subject said, “We are aware the opposition, especially the Peoples Democratic Party, is waiting for us. “The truth is, whichever zone we pick our next National Chairman from will be a pointer to where our presidential candidate is likely to come from.” National Secretary of the CENCPC, Senator John Akpanudeoehe, declined comments on the time-table and schedule of activities. However, our correspondent gathered that the party’s national caretaker committee will be meeting this week to finalise arrangements. The committee is expected to present its proposal to the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari and the caucus before it is made public. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com