The Director-General, National Council for Arts and Culture, Otunba Olusegun Runsewe, has commended Leicester City duo, Kelechi Ihenacho, and Wilfred Ndidi, for their display of patriotism, adding that the NCAC plans to celebrate both Premier League stars. He said the footballers displayed patriotism and love for Nigeria during Leicester’s English FA Cup final match 1-0 win over Chelsea on Saturday. Runsewe, who also doubles as the President of World Crafts Council, in a statement on Wednesday, said, “A powerful and fascinating merger between culture and sports showcased itself immediately after the match. “Beneath the pomp, glitz and glamour of the English FA Cup final between Leicester City and Chelsea, a unique spectacular and outstanding show of patriotism was displayed. “It came in the manner that Kelechi and Ndidi soaked themselves in their love for Nigeria by wrapping themselves in the Nigerian green and white colours to celebrate their victory over Chelsea.” The NCAC DG added that there was the need to “document, institutionalise and legalise the legacy of Iheanacho and Ndidi as a show of extreme love and indivisibility of Nigeria their country.” He said he was prompted to put up a request for artistic impression of their actions on that day. According to him, with the collaboration of the Society of Nigerian Artists, Abuja, the NCAC will institute an arts competition that celebrates the intersection of sports and culture, “referencing Kelechi and Ndidi’s action with the Nigerian flag in the Leicester City victory over Chelsea.” Runsewe said the Arts competition, which would be in traditional 2D Art (Painting, Print Making and Drawing) would be done within one month and would be open to residents of the FCT. Runsewe added that there will be a reward system for the best three winning entries, which would be presented to the Minister of Information and culture, Lai Mohammed, and his counterpart in the Ministry of Youth and Sports Development, Sunday Dare. He said the reward may include a trip to London in the nearest future.