The House of Representatives has yet to consider a report on the amendments to the Electoral Act, almost three months after it was laid before it The House Committee on Electoral Matters had on February 23, 2021, presented the report on the Electoral Act 2010 (Amendment) Bill. The Chairman of the committee, Aishatu Dukku, had prayed the House to “receive the report of the Committee on Electoral Matters on a Bill for an Act to Repeal the Electoral Act, 2010 and Enact the Electoral Act, 2021 to Regulate the Conduct of Elections in Federal, States and Area Councils in the Federal Capital Territory; and for Related Matters.” A member of the Peoples Democratic Party in the House, however, alleged that the ruling APC does not want the Act amended before the 2023 general elections. The opposition lawmaker, who recalled how the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), refused to sign the various versions of electoral bills transmitted to him for assent before the 2019 election, accused the ruling party of frustrating the process in the House. Speaking on condition of anonymity, he said, “Did you know that this government does not want to amend the Electoral Act? What are you people (media) doing about it? Take it from me that this government does not want to amend the Electoral Act. You people are supposed to raise the red flag and start to ask questions from now. If not, there will be no elections that will happen in 2023. They don’t want anything done about the election. “Call the chairmen of the electoral committee in both chambers (Senate and House) and ask them, ‘What is happening to the Electoral Act.’ Call Aisha Dukku; call the one in the Senate.” The PDP lawmaker, however, denied knowledge of the report laid by the Dukku-led committee. Efforts to get Dukku to react to the delay proved abortive. She neither picked several calls made to her mobile line since April 28, 2021, nor replied to a text message seeking an update on the amendment process by the committee. Some of the calls were disconnected. Journalists had asked Chairman of the Committee on Media and Public Affairs, Benjamin Kalu, at a press conference a day after the report was laid, to explain why the report was being delayed. This was despite the fact that the Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, had repeatedly listed electoral reforms as one of the priority legislations of the lawmakers. Kalu had said the then ongoing nationwide registration and revalidation exercise by the ruling All Progressives Congress did not allow the House to consider the report. The House’s spokesman said the chamber would consider and pass the report on the Electoral Act Amendment Bill 2020 when members, who were in their constituencies to campaign for the APC membership, returned to legislative duties. He had also noted that the electoral bill is one of the priority legislations of the parliament. He had said, “We have promised Nigerians that the bill will be out before the middle of this year, which is June. We are certain that it will not go beyond the middle of this year. The determination of the House is to get it discharged even before the end of April. “As you all know, the report is ready; it was tabled for presentation yesterday (Tuesday). But due to the fact that most members wanted the report to come in and be considered the same day, and the House needed to be full to do that, it was stepped down. The Electoral Act is very important to what we do and you cannot consider it when we have a lot of constituencies not represented on the floor. “Be assured that in no distant time, it is going to come up for laying because they have finished the technical work on it. So let’s have a fuller house that will be able to ensure that all the clauses carry the intention of the house.” The APC registration exercise, which was extended three times, had ended since April 21, 2021. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com