There was a crisis on Thursday over the move by the House of Representatives to establish a Chartered Institute of Forensics and Certified Fraud Examiners of Nigeria, as different groups clashed at the public hearing held by the parliament. The Chartered Institute of Forensic and Investigative Professionals of Nigeria alleged that the bill being considered by the House was plagiarised, as the National Assembly had recently passed a similar bill it sponsored. The legislation for which the hearing was held is titled, ‘A Bill for an Act to Establish the Chartered Institute of Forensics and Certified Fraud Examiners of Nigeria to Provide for the Regulation and Control of Its Membership and Promote the Practice of Forensics and Fraud Examiners in Nigeria; and For Related Matters 2021.’ Earlier at the hearing, the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria and the Association of National Accountants of Nigeria had differed on the proposal in their separate presentations. While ICAN opposed the bill, ANAN supported it. The Pro-tem President, CIFIPN, Mrs Victoria Ayishetu, expressed opposition to the bill in her oral and written submissions. She noted that the CIFIPN had been in existence since 2009, recalling that the 8th National Assembly unanimously passed the bill to legalise the body. She said the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), did not assent to the bill before the dissolution of the last Assembly in June, 2019, and it was reintroduced in the current 9th Assembly. Ayishetu said, “Consequently, the Senate at its plenary sitting on Tuesday, 2nd March, 2021, passed the Chartered Institute of Forensic and Investigative Professionals of Nigeria Bill, 2021, after it was read for the third time.  And due to the bi-cameral nature of our legislature, the House of Representatives passed the bill on Wednesday, 19th May, 2021. “The accelerated response our bill received from the two chambers of the National Assembly is a testament to the fact that its intents and purports are of strategic importance to the fight against corruption and would boost all national efforts targeted at eradicating corruption, which has eaten deep into the fabric of our nation. “However, we were taken aback when we heard that a bill that seeks to establish the Chartered Institute of Forensic and Certified Fraud Examiners of Nigeria was introduced at the floor of the House of Representatives, immediately after the passage of our bill by the Senate on March 2nd 2021.” “On hearing this, we became curious and our curiosity led us to critically look at the provisions of the newly introduced bill alongside with ours, which has already been passed by the National Assembly, and we discovered that the provisions of the new bill merely duplicate the provisions of our bill.” The President/Chairman of Council, CIFFEN, Iliyasu Gashin-Baki, said there were concerns, even before the public hearing, as to whether this bill was encroaching on the functions of ICAN and ICAN. He said, “For the past 10 years, the institute has been promoted by ANAN, which is a sister-body of ICAN. There are only there accounting organisations in Nigeria – ICAN, ANAN and in addition to that is the Chartered Institute of Taxation. “For someone to claim that it (forensics) is part of accounting is misinformation and misrepresentation. Yes, there is forensic accounting but there is forensic medicine too, and all the various disciplines that forensics covers. “We understand that the House had worked on a bill in the 8th National Assembly. I want you to investigate and interrogate why that bill was declined by the President. On the issue of whether that bill is the same thing with our own, it is a complete and outright misrepresentation.” Earlier on Thursday, the Speaker of the House, Femi Gbajabiamila, while declaring the hearing open, decried that corruption was frustrating the country’s growth and development. “The different manifestations of corruption in our society have long militated against our national development. Until we have slayed this monster, we may not achieve the ambitions we have for our country. Therefore, we have an obligation to do what we must to strengthen the institutions of state responsible for leading the charge against this menace,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com