Analysts at PwC Nigeria have highlighted the need for the Petroleum Industry Bill to provide a clear plan for a gradual transition to renewable energy in the country. The analysts also said role of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation in accelerating the transition to renewable energy could not be over-emphasised. The International Energy Agency had, in its Pathway to Net-Zero Emissions by 2050 report, called for an end to upstream oil and gas investment. An associate director and a senior associate at PwC Nigeria, Temitope Yusuff and Jasmine Ejiofor, in an emailed response to questions from our correspondent, commented on the viability of exploring new basins and the effects of the IEA’s submission on the international oil market and NNPC’s profitability. According to its Annual Statistical Bulletins, the NNPC dug five exploration wells in 2016, 10 in 2017, 15 in 2018 and 2 in 2019. The NNPC said last year that exploration activities were ongoing in Lake Chad and the Bida/Sokoto Basins, reiterating its commitment to increase Nigeria’s oil reserves from 37 billion barrels to 40 billion barrels by 2023. The analysts noted that renewable energy, which had seen increased use since the 1990s, reached record highs in 2020, providing about 12 and 19.7 per cent of total US and EU energy consumption respectively. They said, “The infrastructural transition from fossil fuels will be gradual and will involve its challenges. This situation coupled with the projected increase in the global population will continue to create a demand for fossil fuels. “The current reserves estimates are not nearly enough to meet the world fossil fuel demand. This justifies continuous exploration, including in new basins. Furthermore, the oil and gas industry is accustomed to price volatility.” According to the analysts, the most significant growth in renewables will be in solar PV and offshore wind. They noted that the Renewable Energy Division of the NNPC, with a mission to profitably exploit renewable energy and reduce emissions for Nigeria, had planned gas utilisation projects to achieve the said goal. They said the much-awaited PIB, which was planned to address pertinent issues including the unbundling of the NNPC, oil and gas royalties and taxes, regulations guiding production sharing contracts, dispute resolution, however, missed something. The analysts said, “The draft bill however does not provide a clear plan for a gradual transition to renewable energy. While transitioning from fossil fuels may not be in the short term, this seems a missed opportunity, as the role of the national oil company in accelerating the transition to renewable energy cannot be over-emphasised.” “The NNPC should be positioning itself for the future and the government should create an enabling environment for the transition to be private sector-led,” they added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com