Shareholders of Berger Paints Nigeria Plc have endorsed the N116m dividend proposed by the board of the company for the 2020 financial year. The dividend translates to 40 kobo per share and an increase of 60 per cent over the 25 kobo paid in 2019. The company said in a statement that it had leveraged technology and innovative products to take advantage of opportunities presented by the current challenging operating environment. Addressing the shareholders at the company’s 61st Annual General Meeting held virtually, the Chairman, Mr Abi Ayida, said despite the  headwinds such as impacts of COVID-19 pandemic on corporate activities and macroeconomic vagaries, revenue was up by  7.1 per cent from N3.58bn in 2019 to N3.84bn in 2020. According to him, the proposed dividend of 40 kobo per share for the year demonstrates the company’s unflinching commitment to the promises to shareholders. Ayida said, “Our revenue was driven by volume growth despite the shutdown in economic activities, disruptions and environmental unrest and the loss of sales for about seven weeks in the year. Free cash flow remained strong at N529m, representing 34 per cent from the preceding year. “However, a proposed dividend of 40 kobo per the year demonstrates the company’s unflinching commitment to the promises to shareholders. We are very conversant with the strategic threats being faced by manufacturers in Nigeria but we are equally positioned to take advantage of the opportunities.” Ayida said as an indication of corporate foresight, the board had invested in technology
for optimum performance prior to the outbreak of the pandemic. He commended the directors that retired for their contributions to company’s growth and urged the new board members to sustain the trajectory of innovative advice to enhance the company’s global competitiveness. The Managing Director, Mr Anjan Sircar, said the company leveraged strategic focus on the sales of premium products and inclusion of new business partners to sustain its operations in the face of dwindling raw materials due to foreign exchange scarcity in the review period. He, however, assured the shareholders of better days ahead. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com