Unity Bank Plc has said it will provide additional funding to 120,000 smallholder maize farmers in Nigeria in the 2021 wet season farming. It said this in a statement titled ‘ABP scheme: Unity Bank set to extend additional funding to 120,000 smallholder maize farmers’. The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Unity Bank Plc, Mrs Tomi Somefun, disclosed this while delivering a goodwill message at the unveiling of the first national maize pyramids and flag-off of wet season farming programmes in Katsina, according to the statement. As a major stakeholder in the rollout of the CBN’s Anchor Borrowers Programme, Unity Bank said it was invited to participate in the events marking the unveiling by the Maize Association of Nigeria. Represented by the Head, Agribusiness, Unity Bank, Mrs Patricia Ahunanya, Somefun said the additional funding for 2021 wet season farming was in furtherance to the bank’s commitment towards supporting maize farmers in the country. She said the strategic partnership with the association commenced in 2019 with the financing of about 37,182 smallholder farmers, adding that the bank increased its financing tally to 70,604 smallholder farmers in 2020. Commenting on the maize pyramid, Somefun said, “The maize pyramid will go down in history as the first maize pyramid in Nigeria which demonstrates not only the resilience of our farmers but also the commendable vision of the Federal Government of Nigeria through the implementing partners. “This should be replicated in all states with a focus on the crops that have comparative advantage.” She noted that with agriculture contributing over 26 per cent to Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product and employing about 50 per cent of Nigeria’s working population in the rural areas, the bank would continue to make strategic investments into the sector in line with the Federal Government’s quest to attain food sufficiency, diversify the economy away from oil, create jobs for the youth and reduce poverty. “Unity Bank is fully committed to its partnership with MAAN, and this commitment will ensure the attainment of FGN/CBN target to meeting self-sufficiency in maize production through the association,” she added. Also speaking, the National President, MAAN, Dr Abubakar Bello, commended Unity Bank for its continued support of the farmers through its strategic role in providing the necessary financing to the maize farmers. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com