A renowned professor of virology and former Vice-Chancellor at the Redeemer’s UniversityNigeria, Ede, Osun State, Oyewale Tomori, says inconsistent government policies and personal interests are some of the reasons Nigeria is unable to produce human vaccines. Speaking with PUNCH HealthWise, Prof. Tomori noted that the obstacles placed in the way of doing business and getting approvals needed by potential partners are major challenges in the country. According to him, it is a shame that Nigeria is not presently ready for the production of human vaccines, noting, however, that if the country maintains the momentum as it is now, it should be able to produce human vaccines in a few years to come. Tomori noted that the challenges hindering the production of human vaccines in the country are many and multifaceted. “The challenges are many and multifaceted — from inconsistent government policies that make it impossible to set and meet long-term goals and objectives, to the overriding of national interests by personal interests by people who would rather that Nigeria continued to import vaccines through translucent [semi-transparent]procurement processes. “There are also the time bomb obstacles placed in the way of doing business in Nigeria, whereby getting approvals needed by potential partners becomes a forever obstacle and steeplechase race. “You often have to deal with people who you assume to have the same motive as you do, to see your country make progress. You’ll, however, discover later, as you interact with them, that while they loudly proclaim and carry the banner and flag of accountability and transparency, all they are gunning for is to milk the country dry and use you as the conduit pipe to drain national resources into their filthy and leaking pockets,” he said. On the way forward, Tomori urged individuals who love the country not to relent but continue the fight for the development of the country. “Those who truly love this country must not relent; they must continue the fight for the orderly development of our country, no matter how long it lasts, they must not compromise their standard, and most importantly, they must not keep quiet in telling Nigerians why we are not making deserved progress.” The virologist urge more Nigerians to come boldly with united voice against the ills of the society. “Nigeria has the talented people and the resources to be a great country that we can all be proud of. The major obstacle is that we do not have conducive and enabling environment to excel. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com