The Vice Chancellor, Anchor University,  Lagos, Prof. Joseph Afolayan, has advised the newly admitted students of the institution to be focused and steadfast in their academics. While speaking at the matriculation, Afolayan said the 163 new students were spread across the three faculties of the university, adding that there were 22 students at the Faculty of Humanities; 75 students in the Faculty of Science & Science Education, while the remaining 66 were in the Faculty of Social & Management Sciences. The VC added, “Be focused and immerse yourselves into your programmes, throughout your stay here; you will have the chance to rest tomorrow. If you have any doubt about the right identity you should adopt, just adopt the motto of the university. Build your character, become competent in your field of study and be courageous and you will be glad you did. “We will provide you the right choices you need to take to achieve true greatness, but beware of the alternatives in form of distractions and indulgence. It is good that you know early enough that your decisions and/or indecisions within the next three and a half years will be the blocks upon which your mental, academic, spiritual and corporate successes will be built.” He also told the students that Anchor University had zero tolerance for vices. “We frown at drug abuse, sexual assaults, examination malpractices, among others. Do not be caught in the web of any of these. The details of the rules and regulations you need to follow have been carefully documented in the university’s student handbook. Please ensure you read it carefully. Ignorance will not be excused,” he said Afolayan also advised parents to apply wisdom while relating with their children as they struggled to carve a new identity that would guide their adulthood. He said, “You need to pray for wisdom that you will not be locked out at this stage, but join us to give them a safe voyage into adulthood.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com