Inadequate storage and distribution infrastructure are limiting the efforts of Nigeria and other African nations to transition to cleaner energy sources, the African Refiners and Distributors Association has said. ARDA and other industry players said these limitations could hinder attempts by nations on the continent to meet the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals geared at mitigating deforestation in Africa. The experts and operators disclosed this during an online workshop organised by ARDA, which aimed at delivering strategies for coordinating storage and distribution investments to support the increase in the continent’s future petroleum products demand. Industry players in the African downstream sector, including Kenya Pipeline Company, Rainoil Limited (Nigeria), SENSTOCK (Senegal) and SONABHY (Burkina Faso), discussed oil and LPG terminal investments in Burkina Faso and Nigeria. They spoke on the digitalisation of storage tanks and loading trucks in Senegal, as well as KPC’s strategy for expanding its assets and operations across the Great Lakes area of Burundi, DRC, Kenya, Rwanda, South Sudan and Uganda, among other relevant topics. The Executive Secretary, ARDA, Anibor Kragha, said African leaders must develop a coordinated energy transition roadmap that would result in investments in critical infrastructure such as terminals, pipelines, rail and ports. He noted that these facilities were needed to deliver petroleum products across Africa over the next two decades. “It is imperative that key decision-makers across the continent develop a robust energy transition roadmap that fully incorporates storage and distribution requirements needed to support Africa’s projected increased demand for petroleum products,” Kragha said. He said the African Union Commission and ARDA recently assessed investments needed to upgrade African refineries to produce cleaner fuels. He said a similar study should be conducted to determine the corresponding storage and distribution investments needed to transport the cleaner fuels efficiently and safely across Africa. Experts at the event further discussed key considerations for regional and multi-country pipeline initiatives in West and Southern Africa for pipelines and the importance of reducing shipping costs and congestion at major African deepwater ports. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com