SINCE the Southern Governors’ Forum jointly advocated the restructuring of Nigeria along the lines of true federalism and imposed a ban on open cattle grazing, a cacophony of voices expressing opposition to the courageous decision has rent the national space. As expected, opposition to restructuring is coming primarily from members of the elite and groups in the North, including the Northern Governors’ Forum, which continually lobs insults at its proponents. A cabinet minister in the Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) regime has also added his inflammatory disapproval. True federalism might yet save Nigeria from doom, and the governors’ ideas resonate soundly with many Nigerians. So, they (the governors) should not give up. The naked resentment against the Southern governors’ call for devolution expressly reinforces an open secret: Nigeria is drifting apart further, more than at any other time in its turbulent history. The divergence on the way forward is sharp. Based on the discontentment of their citizens, the SGF, in what is now known as the Asaba Declaration, espoused restructuring as the robust path to progress. The governors banned open cattle grazing. But the core of the North responded with anger, apparently because it wants to maintain the political status quo that confers advantages on it, deepened misery and is rapidly tilting the union to the precipice. Among others, the Northern governors derided their Southern counterparts, arguing that they should not have totally banned open grazing or advocated restructuring beyond the discussions at the Nigeria Governors’ Forum. This is provocative. For years, the nexus between open grazing, farmland destruction and bloody violence in the South and the Middle Belt has been well established. The Global Terrorism Index identified nomadic Fulani herdsmen as the fourth deadliest terror group in the world since 2015. It is only logical that such an intrusive army would be banned from openly roaming around. Other derisive comments bordered on outright denial of the meaning of restructuring; others said the governors had no right to ban open grazing and should first reform the local governments under them before calling for true federalism. But the core reactions were captured by the Arewa Consultative Forum and the Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami. The ACF labelled the call for restructuring by the governors as an attempt to cause the disintegration of the country. That is pure mischief. And with an air of finality, Malami said, “As far as I am concerned, I do not understand what restructuring any political individual is talking about against the background of the fact that on the other hand, he is denying the existing constitutional structures to operate optimally.” With all the instability in the polity, this is a backward statement from a minister. It reflects the narrow thinking and resistance to restructuring by the Buhari regime, which it perhaps sees as just hot air from a few elements in the South. How misplaced that is. In the same vein, Malami carpeted the ban on open grazing, saying the constitution guarantees the right of Fulani herders to free movement in any part of the country. Bizarrely, he compared the ban on open grazing to the NGF banning “Igbo spare parts traders from the Northern part of the country.” These are lazy, self-serving, and incendiary arguments. Laced with arrogance, they reflect the sense of entitlement of the Northern elite and the provocative claim of Fulani pastoralists to all land anywhere in Nigeria. These arguments deny the modern dynamics of Nigeria: open grazing is outdated and has become a major source of animus. Conversely, the Fulani – like every other Nigerian – engage in trading in every part of the country without disturbance from any quarter, but cattle herding infringes on the rights of settled farming communities, a source of tension, division, and a pretext for violence, including rape and kidnapping. Apart from that, it is a threat to food security because farmers are fleeing their farmland. Why not replace it with sensible business models in the interest of the majority like the ranching suggested by the Southern governors? Besides, as lawyers have pointed out, the constitution guarantees the right of movement for persons, not for cattle. Still, federalism has proved to be a workable political arrangement in multi-ethnic and multi-religious societies. Belgium, Canada, the United States and Australia have adopted this system to compelling effects, but they are constantly tweaking it for the good of their countries. Britain, a unitary polity, has devolved powers to Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland. Known for its plurality, Nigeria cannot be different. At this point, it has a choice to make. It is either it restructures soon or descends into anarchy. In the early 1990s, the (defunct) Yugoslavia was adamant that there would be no true federalism. Eventually, its weak federal structure collapsed, and it broke up violently. After a bloody interval, it has splintered into Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Kosovo, Montenegro, North Macedonia, Serbia, and Slovenia. Nigeria’s disparate groups should avoid this at all costs, which is why restructuring is imperative. In turn, in the ‘Velvet Divorce,’ Czechoslovakia discussed and peacefully parted in January 1993, becoming two independent nations – the Czech Republic and Slovakia. This is a better, sensible option, which should be embraced. In recognition of the need to restructure, previous federal administrations held political conferences. The last one in 2014 made relevant recommendations that could enhance the practice of federalism. Crucially, it approved resource control and an increment in the derivation from the current 13 per cent to 17 per cent. From that conference, the Federal Government is to take 44 per cent, states 35 per cent and LGs 22.5 per cent. In addition, LGs will cease to be the third tier of government, but under state control. Buhari’s party, the All Progressives Congress, through the Nasir el-Rufai-led committee report officially supports restructuring. But Buhari kicked the can down the road. The Southern governors should embrace them and use them as the basis for their negotiations. They should campaign extensively for a return to the 1963 Republican Constitution model and deepen their resolve on open grazing by making region-wide laws and implementing them. Further delay in restructuring the country could prove fatal. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com