The outgoing President and Chairman of the Institute of Directors Nigeria, Chief Chris Okunowo, has said companies interested in creating and growing enterprise value must have an expert interplay of financial productivity, resilience and society. He disclosed this on Thursday in Lagos at the 2021 biennial lecture of the institute. Okunowo said in order to approach business challenges in the current realities, a new management concept had emerged, termed ‘value creation’. He said, “Value creation is a renewed approach to business management, resulting in the integration of shareholders’ value through the delivery of value to customers and business associates. “Businesses must adapt to avoid value disruption. Businesses must find a balance between three keys of enterprise value: financial productivity, resilience and society as they shift from time to time.” Okunowo noted that the COVID-19 pandemic had caused a need for deep reflection in sustaining value. “Shareholders’ perspective on value is becoming more long term and realistic. In recent months, it is expected that wide inequality highlighted by COVID-19 has further intensified the pressure on companies to deliver, measure and report on long-term value creation in the society,” he said. He said while the institute recognised the global effort to recover from the economic challenges of the pandemic, their insights highlighted emerging opportunities for harnessing a sustainable and resilient future of its business. According to him, there is a need for the 21st-century experts to upgrade capabilities. “The 21st-century business expert should upgrade physical capabilities in strategic direction setting, resource allocation and corporate governance. Enhancing these capabilities is important for leaders to remain resilient and more purposeful contributors to society,” Okunowo added. In his keynote address, the Chair Emeritus, International Integrated Reporting Council, Prof. Mervyn King, said, “We are now in the era of enterprise value creation, preservation and erosion and accepting that a company could have a business model which would result in account for all three aspects.” According to him, directors owe their duties to the company and not to  the shareholders, and the tragedy of the 20th century is that it has been characterised with the primacy of the shareholder. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com