Chief Press Secretary to the Edo State Deputy Governor, Ebomhiana Musa, has bemoaned the failure of the Federal Government to fulfil its financial pledge six weeks after the National Sports Festival ended, The PUNCH reports. The FG had pledged to assist Edo with finance for the hosting of the festival, after the state complained of paucity of funds to stage the biennial event. The festival, which was eventually held from April 2 to 14 in Benin City, after several postponements, was almost ended midway into the competition, with Edo State Government saying it could no longer bear the financial strain. However, after consultations, the Federal Government pledged to release funds, before Edo agreed to continue with the NSF. Six weeks after the festival, Musa, in a chat with The PUNCH, decried the FG’S poor treatment of the state. “As a state, we have put it behind us and decided to move on. If it pleases the almighty Federal Government and the almighty Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports Development to compensate us for the financial losses suffered during the sports festival, so be it,” Ebhomiana, who was the Project Manager, Media and Communications, Edo 2020, told The PUNCH. “It is just unfortunate that they decided to treat us like orphans, I don’t think they will treat an APC state the way they treated us. Personally, I see an element of politics in all the games they’ve been playing with us as regards the release of this money.” He added, “How long does it take for the Federal Government to release money to a state that has spent so much to bring Nigerians together under one roof in the name of sports, unity and oneness? This is one thing the nation needed so dearly at this time in our history. If Edo State decided to host the nation, I think we deserve praises and compensation. How many states can do that at this hard time, taking a look at the economy of the country?” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com