Investment-One Venture Capital Limited, one of Nigeria’s venture capital companies, has said it is ready to fund viable business proposals from them. In a statement titled ‘Firm moves to finance entrepreneurs with bespoke business plan’, it said this was to support entrepreneurs seeking financing for their early and mid-stage companies. The statement said, “It is the second time the company, a subsidiary of Investment-One Financial Services Limited, would make a bold move to finance Nigerian entrepreneurs who are in dire need of fund to either establish or grow their businesses. “The ongoing second edition of ‘Venture Quest’ launched by the firm is primarily aimed at financing companies proffering viable technology-enabled solutions/products.” The Head, Vencap, Mayowa Olugbade, described Venture Quest as the firm’s flagship call for investment proposals from entrepreneurs seeking financing for their early and mid-stage companies. She encouraged companies proffering viable technology-enabled solutions/products to send in their pitch decks and other information. According to her, the second edition exercise is not constrained to any specific sector or geography, and all prospective entrepreneurs are encouraged to apply. She said, “The ideal candidate will be a company that has been in existence for a minimum of one year, with a product or service that has scaled the ‘proof of concept’ stage and has an experienced/strong management team. “However, candidates who do not meet these requirements can still apply.” According to her, entrepreneurs who are willing to participate in the programme have a limited time schedule to indicate interest by submitting their proposals before the end of May. Investment-One Vencap is the SME-focused subsidiary of Investment One Financial Services Limited. “Vencap invests in SMEs and in addition, provides essential business support to our investee companies – from the date of investment until financial exit,” it stated. Olugbade said its typical investment horizon was three to five years and its preferred exit was to the founders or current management. According to her, the company is committed to ensuring the success of the companies it invests in. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com