The Federal Government has deployed men and resources to secure power plants across the country, particularly in states facing security challenges. It was gathered from the Federal Ministry of Power on Sunday that security operatives had been deployed to protect the multibillion naira Shiroro Hydropower Electricity Plant in Shiroro, Niger State, following reports that terrorists had captured part of the area. This came as the Transmission Company of Nigeria announced on Sunday that it was forced to shut down its 33kV feeders in its substations in Kaduna following intense pressure from members of the Nigerian Labour Congress in the state. TCN also stated that the NLC, which had embarked on industrial action in Kaduna, further forced the Kaduna Electricity Distribution Company to shut down its operations. Asked about the level of security at the multibillion naira Shiroro Hydropower Dam, the Special Assistant to the Minister of Power, Aaron Artimas, stated that officers had been deployed to protect the facility and others in various locations nationwide. He said, “Although I am not in the capacity to speak for security generally in Niger State, there seems to be general arrangement since the governor’s public outcry about the security threats. So there is security there.” He stated following the bombing of the recently restored power facility in Borno, the government had to intensify discussions on how to protect national power assets. Artimas said, “The major problem that we have in this country is the length and breadth of the country and stationing security in places where these national assets and infrastructure are situated, of course, can be a little bit difficult. “But generally, all those things are being discussed. They are part of the issues. Securing national assets is one of the issues they are discussing at the highest level of the presidency because we know that the assets are targets.” On power supply in Kaduna, the General Manager, Public Affairs, TCN, Ndidi Mbah, said the ongoing industrial action by the NLC resulted in the interruption of bulk electricity supply within the state early on Sunday morning. She said, “TCN had resisted intense pressure from the union yesterday (Saturday), demanding that all 33kV feeders radiating from our substations within Kaduna State be switched off. “Regrettably, the union functionaries returned today (Sunday) with similar demands amid palpable threats that could escalate and jeopardise national grid security. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com