The Delta State Police Command has arrested some suspects, who allegedly killed the son of a monarch in the state, Prince Eric Takerere, and his police escort in Warri. Eric was the son of the Ovie of the Urhumwhorum Kingdom in the Udu Local Government Area of the state, Ighowho Takerere. Parading the suspects alongside 80 others for various criminal offences, including kidnapping, armed robbery, murder, rape, stealing and cultism, on Tuesday at the command headquarters in Asaba, the Commissioner of Police, Mohammed Ali, encouraged the officers and men to maintain and sustain the tempo in the fight against criminals in the state. He said, “As a follow-up to the case of robbery and murder of one Eric Tekere, and his police escorts and the attempted murder of Franklin Tekere in Warri on April 3, 2021, based on intelligence gathered, concerted efforts from         the police and military led to the arrest of one Augustine Osiebe, 33; Ovie Makaji, 35; Wisdom Michael, 27; and Jonathan Tuoyo, 27. “The suspects were arrested last week in Warri and confessed to the crime and other crimes, which include robbery at the Udu Microfinance Bank. “Based on their confession, the police on Saturday arrested one Ogboru Glory, 29; Peremobower Omoni; and Imoniwvie Sunday, 21, behind the NTA, Asaba.” Ali said Ogboru was the gang leader, who procured and supplied arms to the gang. According to him, the gang leader led team of the SAKCCS operatives to Abraka, where the other suspects were apprehended. The monarch said, “My son drove in my car to a party with riot police escort; unfortunately, the hoodlums shot the two of them dead. “I was the one they wanted to kill, not knowing that my son was the one in the car.” In another development, the CP said 38-year-old Godspower Okpeshaga was arrested for defiling an eight-year-old girl. “One Evelyn Atabe alleged that she noticed that her daughter’s pants were wet and when confronted, the victim said a boy known to her as Jaga-Jaga had sex with her. The suspect, Godspower Okpeshaga, was arrested and the case is under investigation,” Ali added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com