The Primate of the African Church and Archbishop of the Arch Cathedral Council, Julius Abbe, has said a drastic step must be taken to avoid another civil war in Nigeria. The priest, who said Nigeria’s unity had been broken, asked political leaders to fix it and other issues by embracing federalism. A statement on Friday quoted Abbe as saying this at a news conference in Lagos to herald the church’s second biennial congress in the city. The congress with the theme, ‘A new beginning,’ commenced on Thursday and will end on Sunday (tomorrow). Abbe, who spoke on the state of the nation, noted with concern that the country appeared to be ungovernable, saying unless there was restructuring and restoration of Nigeria to federalism, the country might be moving towards a precipice. He said, “Before the creation of states, we were operating federalism. The military came and destroyed everything. There is no compulsion to remain part of Nigeria under the present circumstances. A drastic step has to be taken to save our country from another civil war. “We all know that unless we are deceiving ourselves, the unity of the country is in tatters, and if things continue the way they are going, there is no way a civil war will be averted. “The fact that some people are now calling for secession is a clear indication that something is wrong, and they (secessionists) cannot be blamed for making such declarations. In the first place, there is no law that compels us to be part of Nigeria under a repressive circumstance in which the laws of association are not respected or given any regard. “The best way to go is for us to return to federalism. I, therefore, charge all our leaders at all levels to embrace the return to true federalism. It is by so doing that we can have a new beginning, which will give birth to a greater and progressive Nigeria.” Abbe said every part of the country was blessed and so should be given the constitutional power to develop at its pace. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com