The Redeemed Christian Church of God has postponed plans to commemorate the 18th birthday of Leah Sharibu in absentia on Friday, May 14, three years after she was kidnapped by Boko Haram in Government Girls Science and Technical College, Dapchi, Yobe State. Sunday PUNCH gathered that the postponement was due to the recent death of Pastor Dare Adeboye, the 42-year-old son of the RCCG General Overseer, Pastor Enoch Adeboye. Dare died in his sleep on Tuesday at Eket, Akwa Ibom State, where he was a youth pastor. The younger brother of the deceased, Leke Adeboye, in a statement had stated that a special service would be held for Dare on Sunday (today) at the City of David Youth Church in Eket, Akwa Ibom. The statement added that thanksgiving songs and tribute would be held on Monday between 4pm and 6pm at the RCCG House of Favour, Redemption Camp, Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, which would be followed by a farewell service on Tuesday at the Youth Centre, RCCG Redemption Camp. The launch of the book titled ‘Leah: Hero of Jesus: The Real Life Story of Leah Sharibu’ by Dr Gloria Puldu and Rev Peter Fretheim, was scheduled for Leah’s 18th birthday until the postponement. The foreword was penned by Pastor Enoch Adeboye. Leah’s mother, Mrs Rebecca Sharibu, in an interview with Sunday PUNCH expressed her appreciation to the GO and his wife, Foluke, fondly referred to as Mummy GO, for their spiritual support in advocating her daughter’s release. She said, “We came here because a programme was planned to mark Leah’s 18th birthday with Mummy. We had engaged in advocacy through protests, conferences, calling on the international community, and raising prayers. “They wanted some people to give their views concerning her act of faith. When they got in touch with our spiritual father in RCCG, he invited us to see how the advocacy could be moved to the spiritual level. We took that advice wholeheartedly and came to the camp. “When we came, Mummy was excited and wanted to pray with us, Leah’s parents. RCCG was planning something big but everything was put on hold because of what just happened with the passing of Daddy and Mummy’s first son. The event has now been postponed in respect of the departed and our father and mother in the Lord.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com