Medical experts say the Federal and state governments should enact a law that will mandate hospitals to accept medical investigations done on patients in any accredited laboratory facility in the country. According to the experts, this will reduce unethical practices in the medical evaluation of patients and also cut out-of-pocket payments for healthcare. PUNCH HealthWise reports that when patients are referred to other hospitals from a health facility, the referral centres routinely reject the medical tests the patients bring from the first-contact hospitals, and generally make them to go through the same set of tests either at the referral facilities or at any other one the hospitals work with if they have no standard laboratories of their own. Patients who brought the issue to our correspondent’s notice complain that, apart from the concerns about repeated exposures to sometimes dangerous medical tests such as x-rays at close intervals, the attendant out-of-pocket payments are a disincentive for seeking medical care in the hospital. They suspect that hospitals that make patients repeat same tests when there is one they could work with, do so out of greed. Experts who spoke with PUNCH HealthWise on the issue note that it is unethical for a physician to ask a patient to do a test when it is completely unnecessary, stressing that a test should only be done when it is needed. Speaking with our correspondent on why some healthcare providers are reluctant to use same tests carried out on patients by another hospital, the National President,Guild of Private Medical Laboratory Directors of Nigeria, Dr. Elochukwu Adibo, said that an“ethically practising” physician should not request for a test from a patient for financial purposes. Adibo said medical investigations are called for based on clinical indications and considerations. “If there is need for a repeat test, it has to be done by the patient. But when it is intentionally done to shortchange the patient, it is evil and we don’t condone it. We speak against it. “This is  why we have accredited laboratories and they are registered with the state and guided by extant laws. If there is any concern about the result of a test done by an accredited lab, the physician should call the laboratory facility for clarification, instaed of telling the patient to repeat the same test. “There should be a law in Nigeria that will compel hospitals to accept investigations carried out by any standard facility. “If a patient has done a diagnostic procedure in any qualified, good and standard facility, it is expected that it should be acceptable at every other hospital, except where investigation done does not meet standard,” Adibo said. He said that if a hospital or physicians finds any issue, for isnatnce, if the test does not meet clinical expectations, the facility should be made to pay for it and there must be a proof that something is wrong with the investigation. “It is expected that every right-thinking physician, every physician with ethical conduct, well trained and who has respect for the  practice will, ordinarily, not request for investigations when they are not needed,”he added. To continue reading this story and more, click here Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com