PARENTS of the kidnapped students of the Federal College of Forestry Mechanization have dismissed claims that their children were sexually and homosexually molested during their 56 days captivity in bandits den. Recall that on March 11, 2021, bandits invaded the college located in Afaka along the Kaduna International Airport road and abducted 39 students. The parents said none of their children (students) were sexually molested by the bandits. The bandits demanded N500m as ransom had earlier released 10 victims. Debunking the claim, the parents of the now released students explained that the mere thought of molesting a student sexually resulted to the shooting of one of the bandits to death. This was contained in a statement titled, “Re: Revealed: 27 Afaka students were sexually, homosexually molested by bandits’, released by the Chairman of the Parents’ Forum, Malam Abdullahi Usman, in Kaduna on Sunday. The statement read, “We state in unequivocal terms that none of the 37 kidnapped (now freed) Afaka students was sexually or homosexually molested by the bandits. “To be sure, the students confessed that ‘he didn’t even actually attempt it; he was just saying it, and yet he was killed and we were asked to take his corpse and deposit it in a nearby bush because they said he was not worthy of a proper burial. “As parents of the released students, our primary focus now is the rehabilitation of our treasures whom God has brought back to us alive and miraculously unharmed. “Distraction such as occasioned by this false report, purportedly a revelation by an anonymous parent, is unfortunate and irresponsible and should be retracted as it does nothing but aggravate the trauma we and our released children are working hard to overcome.” However, 10 of the 39 students abducted students have been released by the abductors in two batches of five each before the final release of all the students. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com