The Kwara State Government has said it uncovered unlawful salary payment to 48 teachers disengaged from the State Universal Basic Education Board. The state Governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq, disclosed this in Ilorin on Sunday while receiving a report from a three-member committee set up by the government to investigate an alleged payment of March salary to some teachers disengaged from the service of the state Universal Basic Education Board by the government since December 2020. A statement signed by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Rafiu Ajakaye, quoted the governor as saying appropriate actions would be taken against anyone implicated by the committee in the alleged act. Ajakaye said the governor set up the committee to probe revelations that some of the teachers who were disengaged in December 2020 were paid in March, adding that the panel comprised Saka Razaq as Chairman; Murtala Sambo and Mrs Adenike Ojo as members. Speaking at the submission of the committee’s report, the governor insisted that the “integrity of the payroll of the state government is very important to us.” “A situation where people will upload names that are not supposed to be on the payroll will not be tolerated by the state government. That’s why we set up the committee to look into it, find the culprits and recommend solutions to it. “Let me appreciate your work. It is straight, fast and voluminous. Government will look into it and take appropriate action,” the governor added in the statement. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission had sometime in 2020 arrested some officials of SUBEB and the state branch of the Nigeria Union of Teachers for alleged fraud of over N400m in the payment of teachers’ salaries in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com