The House of Representatives has resolved to investigate recent incidents in the aviation sector, in which aircraft lost their engines due to bird strike during local flights. The House particularly mandated its Committee on Aviation to ‘investigate claims of engine failure and/or bird strikes by the two flights – Max Air and Aero Contractors – that sought to depart Kano and Port Harcourt airports to Abuja which nearly caused air accidents, viz-a-viz safety precautionary measures towards avoiding further loss of lives and destruction of properties attendant therein.” This resolution followed the unanimous adoption of a motion moved by a member from Kano State, Sani Bala, titled ‘Urgent Need to Investigate Claims of Engine Failure and/or Bird Strikes That Almost Caused the Fatal Crash of Aircraft Departing Kano and Port Harcourt Airports to Abuja, Respectively, Towards Safeguarding the Lives and Properties of Nigerians.’ Bala recalled that on Tuesday, “One hundred and forty air passengers, including the Emir of Kano and 90 others flying with both Max Air and Aero Contractors aircraft, respectively, escaped fatal accidents and possible deaths as they separately departed Kano and Port Harcourt airports for Abuja. “The Max Air plane with Registration Number VM1645, which was scheduled for takeoff by 1:30pm, had delayed for about 30 minutes before departing, only to escape air crash, just as Aero Contractors’ Boeing 737-500 with the Registration Number 5N-BKR encountered bird strike 10 minutes upon take-off and eventually returned to base. “The House is concerned that there are allegations of negligence on the part of the airliners in applying safety precautions leading to these accident threats. “According to a passenger, despite the echoing of a large strange sound at the point of take-off by the Max Air aircraft, the pilot and his crew dismissed any feeling of insecurity and took off.” The lawmaker noted that in view of several issues of contact between birds and aircraft, causing accidents and deaths, best practices ensure the use of Bird Strike Avoidance Radars to avoid such unfortunate situations. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com