Residents of Road 19 and Nnamdi Olebara Street, World Bank Housing Estate, Owerri, the Imo State capital, are still counting their losses following Saturday’s rainfall that destroyed properties and no fewer than six cars in the area. The downpour, which lasted several hours, flooded houses, destroyed household equipment and submerged cars. Other parts of Owerri were also submerged by the flood as the rain continued till Sunday morning. The destruction was attributed to the construction of a roundabout and the destruction of the manholes built by the first civilian governor of the state. A resident of Owerri, Ebube Mbah, said, “Governor Sam Mbakwe of blessed memory built underground tunnels from the World Bank area to Nwaorie, but when Governor Hope Uzodimma came on board, he changed the contractors handling the project awarded by Governor Emeka Ihedioha. “We spoke out against it and some people said we didn’t wish Imo well. Now, the ugly reality is here with Imo residents as the victims.” Mrs Nma Olebara, whose car was affected by the flood, called on the state government to come to the rescue of residents of the affected areas. The retired teacher said, “I was consoling Darlington Ibekwe, whose house was flooded, not knowing that my car had been sucked away. “I was about to go for Sunday Mass when this happened.” Ibekwe, whose compound, bedroom, sitting room, kitchen and visitor’s room were flooded, said he lost many valuables to the flood. “My house is flooded now! The last roundabout at the World Bank estate is an error. Flood can’t be controlled. My compound, bedroom, kitchen, sitting room, conveniences and visitor’s room are submerged and my properties and documents destroyed,” he lamented. But the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Print Media, Modestus Nwamkpa, said the problem was not caused by the Uzodimma administration. He stated that the administration inherited a very bad road network in the state, adding that the government was addressing the issue with the ongoing construction projects in the area. “The flooding is not the making of this administration. We inherited a very bad road network from the past administration, but the governor is not relenting as he is currently carrying out massive road construction projects in Owerri,” Nwamkpa said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com