The Sultan of Sokoto and the President General Nigeria Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs, Alhaji Sa’ad Abubakar III, has urged federal and states governments to address security challenges in the country. Abubakar in his Eid-el-Fitr message on Thursday also urged citizens to show love, support and relate with one another. He said, “We are calling on President Muhammadu Buhari and all our state governors to as a matter of urgency bring to end the issue of insecurity across the country.” Also, Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of Sokoto State, in his Sallah message, said peace “is the only panacea to the socioeconomic development of the country.” He appealed to Nigerians to shun anything that could further throw the country into chaos but work for the unity and unity of the country. Similarly Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State in a statement by his Special Assistant on Media, Kelvin Ebiri, called on all Nigerians to continue to draw from the lessons of piety, love, justice, fairness, equity, tolerance and honesty derived from the Ramadan period. “The governor reiterated that his administration will continue to promote religious tolerance and the right environment for the freedom of worship,” the statement added. Additionally, Governor Abdullahi Ganduje of Kano State in a statement by the Commissioner for Information, Malam Muhammad Garba, warned that the state would not be a safe haven for purveyors of violence. Ganduje also charged residents to keep their spirits up in spite of the COVID-19 in the country by cooperating with the government through adherence to guidelines for the COVID-19 containment. In the same vein, the Zamfara State Governor, Bello Matawalle urged the people of the state to embark on prayers against banditry. He added, “Although many states are considering reducing their workforce, it will not happen in Zamfara State during my administration.” Likewise, the Gombe State Governor,  Muhammadu  Yahaya, called on citizens to remain resolute and prayerful, adding the nation’s trying moments would soon be over. He condemned those calling for the balkanisation of the country, describing such agitations as self serving and orchestrated plan by some few Nigerians to cause unnecessary tension and division. In his Eid-el- Fitr message, the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Muhammad Bello, advised Muslims in the country to stand firm against divisive and unpatriotic elements who do not mean well for Nigeria. The minister said, “I urge you to continue to practise the lessons learnt during Ramadan in order to strengthen the bond of brotherhood and unity.” Additionally, the immediate past Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki, in a statement by his Special Adviser and head of his Media Office, Yusuph Olaniyonu, advised Nigerians to continue with their closeness to Almighty Allah and their prayers for His intervention in the affairs of the country. “The current situation in our country requires sincere change of mindset by all Nigerians. We should use this post-Ramadan period and the lessons we learnt from the fasting period to steer clear of any action which does not bode well for our country. “With the level of insecurity and economic crisis which have combined to worsen the rate of poverty in Nigeria, all Nigerians must unite and demonstrate patriotism that will help our country overcome the present challenges.” Also, the Peoples Democratic Party caucus in the House of Representatives urged Nigerians to pray against Nigeria’s leadership crisis and rudderless economy. Leader of the caucus, Kingsley Chinda, in a Sallah message issued on Thursday, also urged Nigerians, especially Islamic faithful, to pray against the security crises in the country. Chinda said, “This year’s celebration should further afford our Muslim brethren the opportunity to continue to pray for wisdom and for the spirit of justice to be bestowed on our leaders, and for the unity, peace and progress of our dear county, built on just, fair and egalitarian principles.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com