Two weeks ago, Nigeria launched the National Action Plan for the reduction and eventual elimination of mercury use in the artisanal and small-scale gold mining sector of the country – a monumental project undertaken by the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation in conjunction with the Ministries of Environment, Health, and Mines and Steel, with the support of the World Bank. This is significant, not only because of the fact that gold mining in Nigeria is majorly at the artisanal and small scale level, but also because our country is a signatory to the Minamata Convention. The Minamata Convention on Mercury is an international treaty designed to protect human health and the environment from anthropogenic (human-caused) emissions and releases of mercury and mercury compounds. The convention is symbolically named after the Japanese city of Minamata (in Kumamoto prefecture), because it went through a devastating incident of mercury poisoning in 1956. This mercury pact was as a result of three years of meeting and negotiating, after which the text of the agreement was approved by delegates representing about 140 countries on January 19, 2013 in Geneva, and adopted and signed later that year on October 10, 2013 at a diplomatic conference held in Kumamoto, Japan. It came into effect on August 16, 2017. Nigeria was one of the countries that signed the agreement on October 10, 2013; and then ratified it on February 1, 2018. It is expected that over the next few decades, this international pact will enhance the reduction of mercury pollution from the targeted activities responsible for the major release of mercury to the immediate environment. Therefore, the production of an Action Plan by every signatory to the Convention is an obligation. Mercury is a naturally occurring element which can be released to the environment from natural sources, such as weathering of mercury-containing rocks, forest fires, volcanic eruptions or geothermal activities. It is also released from human activities like industrial processes and extraction of gold from ore in artisanal and small-scale gold mining. It is contained in products such as electrical switches (including thermostats), relays, measuring and control equipment, energy-efficient fluorescent light bulbs, batteries and dental amalgam (for filling of teeth). It is also used in laboratories, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, including in vaccines as a preservative, paints, and jewelry. Mercury is also released unintentionally from some industrial processes, such as coal-fired power and heat generation, cement production, mining and other metallurgic activities such as non-ferrous metals production, as well as from incineration of many types of waste. However, the single largest source of human-made mercury emissions is the artisanal and small-scale gold mining sector, which is responsible for the release of as much as between 1,000 to 1,400 tonnes of mercury to the atmosphere every year. In this practice, mercury metal is used to extract gold from ore as a stable amalgam. The amalgam is then heated to evaporate the mercury and isolate the gold. The health effects on the miners are traumatic, with inhaled mercury leading to neurological damage and other health issues. The communities near these mines are also affected due to mercury contamination of water and soil and subsequent accumulation in food such as fish. There are also severe risks to children, with mercury emissions from the artisanal and small scale mining activities, because children are usually recruited in poverty-stricken mining communities. In order to understand the dire situation posed by mercury in artisanal mining, we could reflect on the disastrous incident in Japan more than 60 years ago, which made the world coin the word Minamata disease. Minamata disease is sometimes referred to as Chisso-Minamata, as the disease was caused by the release of methyl mercury in the industrial wastewater from a chemical factory owned by Chisso Corporation. The outbreak is a neurological disease caused by severe mercury poisoning. Signs and symptoms include ataxia, numbness in the hands and feet, general muscle weakness, loss of peripheral vision, and damage to hearing and speech. In extreme cases, insanity, paralysis, coma, and death follow within weeks of the onset of symptoms. A congenital form of the disease can also affect fetuses in the womb. This highly toxic chemical bioaccumulated and biomagnified in shellfish and fish in Minamata Bay and the Shiranui Sea, which, when eaten by the local population, resulted in mercury poisoning. The cat, dog, pig, and human deaths continued for 36 years. As of March 2001, 2,265, victims had been officially recognised as having Minamata disease (1,784 of whom had died) and over 10,000 had received financial compensation from the polluting company, Chisso. This is why the world is taking mercury reduction and eventual elimination very seriously. Mercury poisoning is a tremendous burden to human health, especially in the artisanal and small scale mining. Mercury gas, such as that involved in amalgam processing in ASGM, is easily absorbed in the lungs and then further transported to other organs. Elemental mercury is able to cross membranes including the blood-brain barrier and the blood-placenta barrier, posing a threat to neurological function and faetal development, respectively. Acute mercury exposure, like mercury vapour produced from heating mercury-gold amalgam, can lead to tremors, memory loss, respiratory distress, and even death. In their research work entitled, “The Mercury Problem in Artisanal and Small-Scale Gold Mining”, published in 2018, Louisa J. Esdaile and Justin M. Chalker, expatiated on the risks of utilising mercury for mining. Stating that chronic exposure to mercury gas may lead to renal failure, tremors, movement disorder and various psychosis and memory impairment. Inorganic mercury, formed through oxidation of mercury metal lost during such mining may contaminate water and also lead to kidney damage if consumed; the chemists emphasised that conversion of mercury pollution from ASGM into methyl mercury also poses tremendous risk as this highly toxic form of mercury accumulates in food supplies, such as fish, crustaceans and mollusks; which toxic form of mercury is harmful to the central nervous system, causing nerve and brain damage. There are many documented cases of miners in ASGM suffering the effects of prolonged exposure to mercury. Now that we have a National Action Plan, we must take advantage of the multi-disciplinary production platform: UNIDO and three relevant ministries – environment, health and mines and steel. It presents a higher chance of ensuring a crosscutting engagement. Artisanal and small scale gold mining is rife in poor communities which poses greater danger of a mercury outbreak. We can learn from the lead poisoning outbreaks in Zamfara and Niger states. It is imperative that these mining communities are helped in order to nip potential mercury poisoning outbreaks in the bud. Following up on the nation’s Minimata Initial Assessment, the NAP takes a wholistic overview of the gold mining sector in Nigeria, comprising the social, economic and environmental impacts; while providing a strategy to formalize the sector in order to attract investment and reduce the social vices that bedevil such ASGM environments. The document also encapsulates relevant data: the number of mining sites in the country, quantity of gold mined, revenue generated (and royalties accruable), ecosystem impacted, among others. Indeed, with UNIDO as the focal agency for drafting and producing the National Action Plan, there is a window for mainstreaming innovation and job creation in the process. This is why we need such a pragmatic and entrepreneurial outlook in order to make the mining industry embrace global best practices. In the past, we had missed such opportunities; but now that we need multi streams of revenue generation, we cannot afford to miss the window. Therefore, I suggest that the private sector should be mobilised and sensitised on this document, even after the government has sent it to Geneva. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com