Edo State Governor, Mr Godwin Obaseki, has said there is no record of Indian COVID-19 variant in Edo as being speculated on social media. Obaseki, in a press statement on Friday, said, “There is currently no update or report suggestive of any such occurrence or new case of COVID-19 reported within Edo in the past 96 hours.” Signed by the Permanent Secretary, Edo State Ministry of Health, Dr. Osamwonyi Irowa, the statement further hailed Edo people for their cooperation with various strategies put in place by the government to contain the pandemic. It said the Federal Government, as part of efforts to ensure the new variant of COVID-19 did not enter into the country, had on April 26, 2021, taken precautionary steps by restricting international travel from India, Brazil and Turkey, while strengthening surveillance at all entry points into the country. “As a government, we have reached out to the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, with regards to any Indian variant in Edo and the verified information reveals that the said sample was collected in January 2021,” Obaseki noted. He also said Edo has witnessed a 12.9 per cent drop in the number of infected persons comparatively. “There has also been a 23.5 per cent comparative increase in the number of older persons infected with Covid-19 in the two waves of COVID-19 in the state. “The prevalence of COVID-19 among young persons, especially schoolchildren in Edo is low, dropped by 18.5 per cent comparatively for first and second wave, most of which are asymptomatic in presentation but they pose risk for spread to older persons,” he said. The governor further called on citizens to make themselves available for the ongoing COVID-19 vaccination in the state, describing it as a major step in containing the pandemic. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com