Gunmen on Thursday killed two family members who were police special constabularies in Ejemekwuru community in the Oguta Local Government Area of Imo State. The two officers, Emeka Nwaoza (43) and Chijioke Nwaoza (35), were shot dead at Ejemekwuru-Akabo Junction in the early hours of Thursday. Our correspondent gathered that the victims, who were cousins, were killed on duty. PUNCH Metro, during a visit to their family compound in Umuagwu village, Ejemekwuru, around noon on Thursday, saw a large number of sympathisers. The wives of the slain cops, Ijeoma and Nkeiruka, were seen weeping profusely. Chijioke’s father, Chief Ikechukwu Nwaoza, was also inconsolable when our correspondent arrived at the compound. The distraught man said he was called around 2am that Chijioke, who was married with six kids, was shot at a security checkpoint where he was on duty. He disclosed that on arrival, he met Emeka already dead, while Chijioke was struggling for life. Ikechukwu said his son was rushed to a hospital in Ogbaku, where he gave up the ghost. “We went to the Izombe Police Station same time and the policemen suggested we deposit his body in a morgue. I am calling on the government to give me justice because his colleagues said security agents shot them. “Chijioke left a very young family. He got married in 2013 and had six children, including a set of twins who are just 10 months old. This is quite unfortunate. He was my first son,” he added. Emeka’s wife, Nkeiruka, said, “Who will take care of my children? I just put to bed. We have six children together. My world has crumbled. I was with him before he left for the night duty. I never knew I would not see him again.” Emeka’s younger brother, Adindu, told our correspondent that the family had evidence that security operatives were behind the killings. A spokesperson for the police in the state, Bala Elkana, told our correspondent that a manhunt for the killers had begun. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com