The rejection of Yoruba Nation by the leaders of the All Progressives Congress in the South-West has spurred mixed reactions from Nigerians on social media. The PUNCH had earlier reported that APC chieftain, Bola Tinubu; Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila; other leaders and governors in the South-West on Sunday rejected calls for separation of Nigeria, saying that the country needs religious and ethnic unity to progress. This is coming amid calls for the creation of a Yoruba Nation in the South-Western part of the country. The decision by the APC leaders has evoked reactions from Nigerians on social media; while some criticized them, others opposed their stand. A tweep, @Ebube_Dike1 said, “No political party supported the French revolution and it didn’t stop it from happening. It’s the government of the people, by the people and for the people; not for the governors and by the governors. Time will tell.” @DicksonNith tweeted, “A few people can’t decide for a whole nation. They should ask the federal government and lawmakers to pass the restructuring bill. Nigeria needs restructuring to be able to move forward.” “Everyone has a right to his own opinion. That’s their own (opinion) and a handful of people cannot decide for the whole masses. Don’t let these people use money and power to jeopardize our generation and future. We are saying ‘no’ to one Nigeria”, @Mustaph26859680 tweeted. @davidharts1 pointed out that a referendum should be conducted, “Fix a date for a referendum and let the majority carry the vote. Stop imposing your selfishness upon other people,” the user tweeted. Supporting the need for a referendum, @kelleudo_o tweeted, “Are they speaking for everyone or themselves? Everyone should have their own opinion. That’s why we need a referendum. That is democracy.” @yamoyankee1 tweeted, “Your opinions don’t validate the interest of the people, If indeed you are a true leader, you would have called for a referendum that will be independently executed.” “Why this is funny is because these acclaimed leaders are not more Yoruba than the so-called separatists. Few people can’t dictate for the majority. Whoever has the number is actually the leader in a case like this,” @itsnnanyereugo posited.