The Imo state police command on Friday said that it had arrested four suspects in connection with the razing of Okigwe South Area Police Command Headquarters. Our correspondent recalls that on April 26, some armed hoodlums invaded and attacked Okigwe South Police Area Command Headquarters where Five Policemen were gruesomely killed while others sustained injuries. The State Commissioner of Police, Abutu Yaro, told The PUNCH on Friday that When the armed hoodlums left the station, some “unscrupulous youths of the community stormed the Area command building and looted the station’s arms and ammunition and later set it ablaze.” He said that the breakthrough was part of his commitment to strengthening the security architecture of the state and to forestall further attacks on Police and other security agencies, Government and Private facilities in the state. Abutu disclosed that the Tactical unit in conjunction with the Quick Intervention Unit of the command arrested the suspects in the Ehime Mbano axis of the state. He said, “operatives of the command deployed in Orieagu, in Ehime Mbano LGA to fish out the perpetrators and their partners in crime have arrested four notorious suspects in connection with the dastardly act. All the suspects were identified by a suspect one Onyedikachi Onneme, arrested by the Police in connection with the act. “The suspects were responsible for the looting and setting ablaze the Area Command Headquarters located at Orieagu in Ehime Mbano LGA in of the state. “Recall that on 26th April 2021, some armed hoodlums invaded and attacked Okigwe South Police Area Command where Five Policemen were gruesomely killed while others sustained injuries. When the armed hoodlums left the station, some unscrupulous youths of the community stormed the Area command building and looted the station’s arms and ammunition, and later set it ablaze. “All the suspects are in Police custody undergoing discreet investigation with a view to arresting other members of their syndicate, so that they can be charged to court for prosecution, to serve as deterrence to others.”