Operatives of the Uyo zonal office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission have arrested one Stacy-Dan Ekpenyong, aka Daniel Ekpenyong, who is the Managing Director of Stewardship Rural Investment Limited, for allegedly obtaining the sum of N11.5m by false pretences. READ ALSO: Kwara ex-gov Ahmed faces EFCC interrogators on alleged N9bn scam According to a statement on Tuesday by the Head, Media and Publicity, Wilson Uwujaren, the suspect tricked his victim into investing in his company, but allegedly absconded after receiving payment, adding that petitioner was not his first victim. The statement read in part, “Ekpenyong was arrested at Keystone Bank, University of Uyo branch, Akwa Ibom State, following a petition by one Titilayo Malgwi, who alleged that the 36-year-old suspect tricked her into investing in his microfinance company. She claimed that she paid the sum of N11m into the suspect company’s account after he convinced her that she would get 10 per cent interest on any amount invested after a period of three months. “When it was time for her to start reaping from her investment, the complainant severed communication with her and efforts made to get her money back proved abortive.” “However, the commission had been on the trail of the suspect since December 18, 2020, when it first received a petition against him from one Amasi Ignatus, whom the suspect allegedly defrauded of the sum of N500,000 through the same scheme.” In a related development, operatives of the Enugu zonal office of the anti-graft agency, on Friday, arrested 10 suspected Internet fraudsters for various offences bordering on cybercrime in Enugu. The suspects include Ben-Ihedi Lucky, Akam Odinaka, Kanu Chinemerem, Ben-Ihedi Victor, Okechukwu Kelvin and Ben Victor. Others are Emenike Michael, Godswill Nkemjika, Emmanuel Samuel and Ethasor Emmanuel The statement by Uwujaren said, “Their arrest on Monarch Avenue, Maryland, Enugu, was sequel to actionable intelligence obtained by the commission on their alleged fraudulent activities. At the point of arrest, two Lexus RX 350 cars with number plates BDG736GX and BDG146GX were recovered from the suspects. Other incriminating materials recovered from them are various mobile phones and a laptop computer.” The agency said the suspects would be charged as soon as investigations were concluded. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com