The Ogun State Police Command has arrested a 52-year-old man, Kayode Adeniyi, for allegedly defiling his three daughters and the 10-year-old niece of his neighbour. The suspect, who lives at No. 12 Abere-Ifa Street, Ijoko, in the Ado-Odo/Ota Local Government Area of the state, was arrested after he was reported to the police by his neighbour. Adeniyi was alleged to have sexually abused his three underage daughters before he was arrested for defiling the 10-year-old girl. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this in a statement on Tuesday. Oyeyemi said Adeniyi was arrested following a report lodged at the Agbado Divisional Headquarters by the victim’s aunt. He said the aunt went to the station with the victim and reported that the incident happened when her niece went to the apartment of the suspect to ask if his daughter was the person, who mistakenly removed the clothes she spread outside. According to the PPRO, the suspect forcefully dragged her into the room, covered her mouth with a pillow and had sexual intercourse with her. Oyeyemi stated, “The victim explained that the suspect threatened to kill her with a knife if she made a noise. “On the strength of the report, the DPO, Agbado Division, CSP Kehinde Kuranga, detailed his detectives to the scene, where the suspect was promptly arrested. “On interrogation, the suspect confessed to forcefully having carnal knowledge of the victim; he also admitted that he threatened the victim with a knife and that was why she couldn’t make a noise until he had satisfied his sexual urge. “Further investigation into the past activities of the suspect revealed that he had being sexually abusing his three underage daughters before now, which he also did not deny. “The victim has been taken to the General Hospital for medical examination and treatment.” The PPRO added that the Commissioner of Police, Edward Ajogun, had ordered the Family Support Unit of the Sango Area Command to take over the case for in depth investigation and diligent prosecution.     ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com