That there is a crisis of governance in Nigeria today is no news: Boko Haram terrorist atrocities continuing unabated; “Fulani headers” (per Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State), marauding cattle rustlers casually wreaking havoc on livestock, property and people, rising tide of ransom kidnapping, wanton armed robberies, not to talk of political violence and even uneasiness in the ranks of the political elite about their own short-term survival, and that of the country they are purportedly serving. The flip side to this in the terrain of the economy is just as bewildering: rampant inflation and persistently high cost of living on much reduced household income, alarming rates of youth unemployment, dilapidated infrastructure, broken healthcare system, and collapsing education where higher institutions are basically graduating illiterates. Some say it all boils down to the need for “restructuring” Nigeria. Others opine that the crisis is emblematic of the rudderless nature of the ship of state, with the captain either unwilling or incapable of sailing it through choppy waters. So, it was with this background in mind that 17 governors from the Southern part of Nigeria, under the auspices of the Southern Governors’ Forum, met to “review the current security situation” in a haphazardly organised meeting held in Asaba, the Delta State capital, on May 11, 2021. Given that Governors’ Fora are alien to the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, and also given that issuing a regional edict on pressing security issues has already been frowned on, even dismissed as “illegal” by the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, the communique from the Southern Governors’ Forum meeting reeks of sabre-rattling on the surface. In the communique, the governors were quick to affirm their “commitment to the unity of Nigeria on the basis of justice, fairness, equity and oneness and peaceful coexistence between and among its peoples…”  The meeting further “resolved that open grazing of cattle be banned across Southern Nigeria”. There is a litany of demands for reform of almost every sector of the country’s life, including a call for devolution of coercive powers via state police in the communique. It is notable that barely a week before the summit, on May 4, 2021, the legal luminary, and colossus, Aare Afe Babalola, Founder/President of Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti, had made a clarion call for a ‘Summit of Hope’, to be held at his own expense, inside the university premises, that would encompass all shades of opinion in society at the top level. That was not a call for just another talking shop; it was a valiant attempt at nipping a looming cataclysm in the bud. And, coming from the person of Babalola, it would have penetrated the thoughts of the southern governors as they marched towards their own Summit at Asaba a few days later. The governors were thus poised to seize the moment not only by stealing Babalola’s thunder, but, more importantly, by lending a voice to the yearnings of the silent majority in the country at large. Two very significant points could be taken from the Summit. First, Nigeria’s ‘unity’, and second, ‘open grazing’. Whenever any group, especially an elite group, feels necessary to pledge their ‘commitment’ to the ‘unity’ of the country, it is a clear demonstration that they do not believe there is a united Nigeria as things stand. In many ways, this is simply stating the obvious. Differing groups believe in the unity of Nigeria not as a reality, but only as an ideal. The problem in only believing in the unity of Nigeria as an ideal is that it begs the question; what would an ideal united Nigeria look like? An ideal united Nigeria would pan out differently for different interest groups up and down the country. Opinions on such a loaded question would naturally need to be aggregated by way of a specially convened conference with representations from all sections of society. There is really nothing revolutionary about this, except that there is a powerful section of the country vehemently opposed to any revisiting of the status quo. There are core elements in Nigeria who take politics as a zero-sum game. Power is there to be seized, and the state is there to be captured and used to pursue parochial interests. This particular understanding of the public sphere cuts across the ethnic (and, for that matter, regional) divide. For these elements, sadly, conferences and summits are a waste of time. They trade in violence and bloodshed, and would only yield to such when pinned to the wall. They have access to the coercive apparatus of the state, as well as its legislative agenda. They are reactionaries, who have unwittingly birthed violent sectarian opposition to their rule. They make peaceful change impossible by condemning any organised opposition to their grip on power even where that happens to be by sitting governors. The saddest of all, is that, these shadowy, nefarious elements make common cause with those whose ultimate political ambition is to dismantle Nigeria as an entity. The other salient point in the communique is, of course, the ‘ban’ on open grazing ‘across the southern states’. Open grazing has been the lightning rod for the agitation for ‘restructuring’ for some time. The debate is enmeshed in politics as all other things are in Nigeria. This column has examined this in terms of negotiations for power and presidential politics, (see; “Politics of open grazing” The PUNCH March 2, 2021). What makes this interesting in terms of the communique from the Southern governors’ Forum is the announcement of a blanket ‘ban’ on open grazing, which the Chairman of the Forum, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, ought to know is a non-starter. He was the same person who presided over the ill-fated establishment of ‘Amotekun’ as a regional initiative in February 2020, under the auspices of the South-West Governors’ Forum. Remember, it was also an initiative in response to the unease about the security situation in the region. Malami had declared any such regional initiatives “illegal” unless processed through each state House of Assembly, individually and separately. Going by that logic, therefore, the announcement of a ‘ban’ on open grazing across the southern states would amount to grandstanding, would it not? It cannot be enforced as a regional initiative unless and until passed through each state House of Assembly. It was the opinion of this column back in 2020 that the South-West states should have contested Malami’s judgement right through the courts if for nothing but to establish a useful precedent. The chickens of Akeredolu and his colleagues’ timidity on that front have now come home to roost. That said, the call on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), by the southern governors to “address” the nation is germane, but it is also an indictment of Nigeria’s sclerotic political system. Under a Parliamentary system, an urgent question, or a motion would be tabled in parliament, which, if not carefully handled by the Prime Minister, could lead to a vote of no confidence in the government. No one would ever need to cajole, let alone beg the head of government to ‘address’ the nation.  A taciturn politician would never be elected leader under a parliamentary system. The weekly rumbustious parliamentary ‘Questions to the Prime Minister’ would not allow that. Still, the southern governors ought to be taken seriously irrespective of their constitutional or political allegiance. A vibrant, responsive democracy (to which the country aspires), could not dismiss the wishes of the combined force of 17 governors out of hand. Their communique represents a shot across the bow for the central administration, which the President ignores at his own peril. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com