The National Drug Law Enforcement Agency has nabbed ex-Lagos council boss and drug baron, Asekun Kehinde, recovering one kilogramme of cocaine and N145 million in the process. Asekun, a former vice-chairman of Lagos Island East Local Council Development Area, was nabbed by operatives of the NDLEA at Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Lagos last Friday while the suspect was trying to board a Virgin Atlantic airline flight to London. READ ALSO: $153 million, 80 houses recovered from Diezani —EFCC boss According to a statement on Wednesday by the NDLEA Director of Media and Publicity, Femi Babalola, Askeun has been on the wanted list of the Agency as some recent drug traffickers and recoveries were linked to him. “He has been on the wanted list of the MMIA Command of the Agency in connection to a case involving one Azeez Adeniyi Ibrahim who was arrested with 6.45kg of cocaine in December, 2020,” the statement partly read. When Asekun was arrested, a kilogram of cocaine concealed in five pairs of palm slippers was recovered inside his suitcase. “During preliminary investigation, it was gathered that the London based baron is a seasoned politician. “He was at different times between 2004 and 2014 the vice chairman of Lagos Island East LCDA. “He had also contested and lost elections for House of Representatives in 2007 and Lagos State House of Assembly in 2015,” the statement noted. The statement further said during tracking, a sum of N131 million was seized from his account and another N14 million also blocked in the account of one of his traffickers, Azeez Adeniyi Ibrahim, bringing the total sum recovered from him to N145 million. NDLEA Chairman, Buba Marwa reportedly commended the Agency operatives at MMIA for their success in arresting the drug baron. The Chairman also reportedly emphasised that the arrest should serve as a warning to barons and traffickers, stating that such criminals would be caught by the agency if they do not back out from their criminal activities.