The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, has urged Nigerians, especially Muslims, to use the period of Eid-el-Fitr and pray for the country to overcome its challenges. Gbajabiamila a statement on Tuesday by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, said after supplications, it is incumbent on Muslims to pray that Allah brings peace to the land. The Speaker said, “Nigeria faces challenges at the moment, this is why as citizens, we should pray to our creator for solutions even as leaders try their best to address the issues.” He also called on Muslims to ensure peaceful coexistence with their neighbours. Also, the Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom called for sustained prayers to end insecurity in the country. In his Eid Ul Firltri message  by his Chief Press Secretary, Terver Akase,  the governor  said he  believed that with prayers and commitment on the part of government and the people, the wave of killings, kidnappings, herdsmen attacks and banditry would be surmounted. The governor said, “The peace, security and unity of the country must be placed above personal and sectional interests, as keeping Nigeria safe and united is a task for all its citizens.” In the same vein, the Chairman, Ekiti State Council of Traditional Rulers, Oba Adebanji Alabi, on Tuesday congratulated Muslims in the state and country on the celebration of Eid-el Fitri. Alabi, who is the Alawe of Ilawe Ekiti, urged the Muslim faithful to sustain their prayers for peace and development of the country. The traditional ruler, in a statement by his media adviser, Chief Ajibade Olubunmi, said, “The current spate of banditry, kidnapping, unwarranted killings and terrorism in the country calls for incessant prayers from religious leaders. A celebration such as the Eid-el Fitri provides another great opportunity for prayers for peace in Nigeria.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com