ON the flimsy pretext of curbing smuggling activities, officers of the Nigeria Customs Service are killing Nigerians with reckless abandon. In a fresh incident, Customs officers brutally shot some people dead during the 2021 Sallah festivities in Oyo State. Disconcertingly, there has been a noticeable escalation in killings by Customs officers since Hameed Ali’s assumption of office as the NCS Comptroller-General in 2015. Under Ali, the NCS is victimising Nigerians. Iseyin, the fourth largest town in Oyo State, is the latest to bear the brunt of bloodletting by Customs personnel. As the Islamic faithful celebrated the end of Ramadan, some NCS officers stormed the town in pursuit of suspected rice smugglers. Claiming that the smugglers mobilised against them, they opened fire indiscriminately on the crowd. At the end of the shootings, they had killed five persons. This is completely unjustifiable. In a properly functioning country, the killing of five citizens by operatives of a security agency would have triggered a national outcry, resignations, sackings and prosecutions. In the United States, the killing of George Floyd in 2020 by a police officer by choking led to resignations, police reform and suspension of the officers associated with the incident. Eventually, Derek Chauvin, the main culprit, was convicted of murder. In Nigeria, the officers who murdered the five persons in cold blood are still not being held accountable, reflecting the country’s dysfunction. Blood is flowing in Nigeria, particularly in Oyo, Ogun, and Lagos states, from Customs operations in the hinterland. The year 2020 ended with the dastardly killing of a young man on December 31 by the NCS officers chasing car smugglers in Oke-Odan, Yewa South Local Government Area of Ogun State. A few days earlier in Ayetoro, Yewa, Customs officers had killed one man identified only as Sola, and injured four others in their bid to apprehend rice smugglers. In October 2020, a stray bullet from Customs officers snuffed the life out of Moses Atanda, 50, in his shop in the same area. He left behind four wives and 18 children. Ali and his officers give the impression that recovering smuggled rice and cars in the hinterland is more valuable than human life. In May 2016, six persons, including three children, were killed in Oke-Odan during an anti-smuggling operation. In February 2018, Abule-Egba, a densely populated suburb of Lagos, tasted the terror of Customs early in the morning. In a commando-like operation, officers chasing rice smugglers stormed the area, shooting sporadically. In the process, a bullet took the life of Toyeeb Olayiwola. Officers fired more rounds to disperse the crowd. In another major incident in October 2019, Customs officers gunned down three students in Ihunbo, Ipokia LGA, while attempting to impound contraband vehicles. The trail of atrocities is frightening as Nigerians continue to die in the hands of killer Customs officers acting with impunity. Accordingly, Francis Fadahunsi, a senator (Osun East) and former Assistant Comptroller-General of Customs, justifiably berated the Ali-led NCS for its murderous violations, including midnight raids on markets in Ibadan, capital of Oyo State, in search of rice. Fadahunsi based his accusations on the fact that the agency is permitted to operate “within 40 kilometres radius of the border.” In the case of the raids, he pointed out that the law does not permit the NCS to burgle shops, but could only seal suspected shops and invite the owners to come and negotiate what to do with the goods. Clearly, the agency’s operations brazenly breach these codes. Life is invaluable; and the responsibility of the state is to protect it. To end the unjustifiable killings, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), must undertake an urgent review of Customs operations under Ali. The primary task before the NCS is really at the borders and it is primitive to be slaughtering citizens on the streets in the guise of chasing smugglers. The importance of efficient Customs operations could be seen in a two-week joint border operation in March by the World Customs Organisation and the East African Customs and Revenue Authorities. By the end of the operation, the agencies had seized a total of 8.5 metric tonnes of chemical precursors, as well as 1.0 metric tonne of other toxic chemicals and dangerous goods at major entry and border-crossing points in Burundi, Kenya, Rwanda, Tanzania, and Uganda, along with 6.0 kg of heroin, 6.5 kg of cocaine and 1.0 metric tonne of cannabis. It is callous therefore for the NCS to allow its inefficiency at the borders to degenerate into raids and killings in the hinterland. The National Assembly should conduct a comprehensive oversight of the Customs, amending the laws where necessary to keep the NCS in check. The amendment should include the payment of compensation by the Customs to victims and their families. At this point, technology must take precedence over a human interface and manual operations. Government and the NCS should acquire high-definition scanners, drone technology, trackers, and HD cameras for operations. The NCS should prioritise stun guns and tear gas over assault weapons in the hinterland, no matter the provocation from smugglers and their cohorts. Helicopters should be in place to enhance the agency’s operational capabilities. The rules of engagement should preclude opening fire on fleeing suspects in crowded places like markets; it is preferable for a suspect to temporarily elude capture than to extrajudicially kill any Nigerian. Besides, the lack of prosecution of the reckless Customs officers is partly responsible for the incessant killings. That should stop. All killer Customs officers should face the law in the event of killings. They are likely to be more circumspect if a few officers were sentenced to death for their atrocities. The public is not totally helpless. Communities experiencing these killings should file class action suits against the NCS and its officers. Governors of the affected states should take up the issue of killings with the relevant authorities on behalf of the victimised communities. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com