When you do not know a place or an area someone is, what you say is that you do not know his or her whereabouts – not whereabout. This means that the word is one that normally bears an s. Unfortunately, a lot of us do not handle it accordingly. The mental picture such folks have about it is that the word ends with the t in ‘about’. They think that since someone can only be at a place at a particular time, we should just talk about his ‘whereabout’.  Indeed, it is the same mentality they have when they want to refer to headquarters. Many of us throw away the s that ends the word too, because we believe that an organisation can only have one ‘headquarter’. The fact is that certain words naturally come with the plural marker. No matter how singular they sound, they always command the s. Such is the status of whereabouts and headquarters.  The word (whereabouts) can function as a noun or an adverb. In either of the cases, the s is a compulsory feature: His whereabouts are not known. (Noun) Whereabouts is your office? (Adverb) Hope you notice the use of the plural verb in the first example. This is understandable as ‘whereabouts’ is plural. Yet, you the singular verb is also accepted with it: His whereabouts are unknown. His whereabouts is unknown. Here are some examples from Longman Dictionary to buttress the points: Despite numerous searches and enquiries, her whereabouts are unknown. Might there be some clue to her whereabouts in the church? She wondered. Perhaps Sir Philip knew his whereabouts. Updates on his whereabouts are broadcast on radio, on billboards and through an 800-number. The police received an anonymous tip about the suspect’s whereabouts. Whereabouts in Madrid do you live? Whereabouts is your office, then? The last two examples are from Cambridge Dictionary. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com