Master of ceremonies and author, Joyce Daniels, speaks about her passion for nationhood and why she left behind her anatomy background, in this interview with TOBI AWORINDE When and where were you born? I was born in Warri (Delta State), on January 31, 1982. It was then Bendel State. We lived in Warri, then we moved to Port Harcourt (Rivers State), where I lived for 25 years. I spent my elementary school and university years in Port Harcourt. I attended the Federal Government College Staff School; the Federal Government Girls Secondary School, Abuloma; and the University of Port Harcourt where I studied Human Anatomy. Don’t ask me what I’ve done with that degree (laughs). What kind of student were you? I was a talkative and a very active student. In primary and secondary schools, I was in the Debate Club and Press Club. I was a life-of-the-party kind of student. I never really received a prize for ‘best in anything.’ Half of the time, I would make a noise in class and there was no prize for the noisemaker or class clown, only punishments. A lot of teachers said to me that they felt I was not living up to what I could do. They kept telling me, ‘You’re a very intelligent girl. You’re very bright. You just don’t push yourself.’ And I agree; I didn’t push myself enough. I also wasn’t very interested in some of the things we were doing in school. I preferred practicals, but unfortunately, a lot of our education was theory, so I would get lost in my own thoughts sometimes, and instead of daydreaming, I would start chatting with someone else. In the university, I was active in student leadership. I was a course representative in my first year. At the start of my third year, I was vice- president of the departmental association, and I could have got involved in student union government leadership, but I got pregnant and had a baby, so that threw me off course. I wasn’t married; that was a scandal on its own. Thankfully, the boy is almost 19 now. I bet you are proud of him nonetheless… Yes, I am. From the moment I came to terms with the fact that I was going to keep the baby, I was already kind of proud. Is he in university now? He is experiencing his gap year after secondary school because I have always been of the opinion that university is not supposed to be a ticked box. University should support some greater desire; this is my personal opinion. Since he was as young as three, I began to sell the idea of a gap year after secondary school to him. And the gap year doesn’t have to be one academic year; it can be two, where you explore and find things that you really enjoy, test them out, try them out, rest, take a break, and then decide what you think you would like to do with your life for the next five to 10 years, if possible, because life is so dynamic. Things can change any day, but I feel all of education, if possible, but university especially, should be an enjoyable experience for something more than just ticking a box. So, he is experiencing his gap year after graduating from secondary school as valedictorian, which is best graduating student. Is any of your experiences as a student shaping the way you are raising him? Yes, a lot of my experiences as a child definitely shaped the way I raised him. Starting out, I realised that there were no differences between boys and girls, which I did not agree with as a child – and when I say ‘as a child,’ I mean from as young as age five. I didn’t understand why my brothers were not told to cook, but it was okay for me to wash the car. So, I had always said I would have no gender roles for my children. From very young, he (my son) did everything. He cleaned, washed, cooked, and went to the market. He does it all. If he was a girl, I would have raised him the same way because I just feel that there should be no gender roles. I also encouraged him to try and be more attentive in class because I found that since I wasn’t attentive in class it was always difficult to catch up with assignments. And I said to him that those people in my classes who I felt did extremely well in school were some of those who just listened and engaged the teachers. They asked questions and got it in class. So, when it was time to do assignments later, it was easier. I told him, ‘I think that’s the secret.’ He adopted it and he said that’s what works for him. So, he had what his other friends would call an electric brain. As the teacher is speaking, he’s asking questions, engaging in class and, guess what, he’s got it; he just needs to revise. So, that shaped the way I taught him because that was my experience. Something else that shaped the way I encouraged him was telling him to be more present and helpful to more students; to teach them whenever he sees gaps in the way he could teach them. I told him that whenever one teaches something, one reinforces one’s own learning and then one is actively helping somebody else to become better. So, from as earlier as Primary Four, I had approached the school and asked them to let my son teach other pupils some of the subjects once or twice a week, because he was doing really well. It helped his classmates and reinforced his learning. Those were some of the activities that I put to him because of my experience. In my second year, when I did teach a tutorial in what we call blood physiology, because we operated a roaster and I had to teach, I had to do some extra studying before teaching and I realised that that was one course that I did very well in because I put in the work. So, I realised that, really, if you take the time to study enough to teach someone else, you get better. What informed your decision to study Human Anatomy? The inspiration was the fallacy that science students are more serious than art students. So, I was somehow guided to be a science student ‘because a whole you, Joyce, can’t be an art student.’ That’s an untruth. In fact, it’s an outright lie. Anything you study that gives fan to flame your natural proclivities and interests is what you should focus on. But that was a fallacy and I have taught my son not to do what he doesn’t like. Rather, I told him, ‘Do what you like, build on it, and become the best in it.’ Enjoying what you do is very important and I taught him that all the way. From secondary school, I was okay in Chemistry. At least, I had As. The competition in my school was tough, so even if you had 75 per cent average at the end of the term, you were not anywhere close to the top 10, because there were people who had 94 per cent. And I was usually in that ‘70 per cent and above’ range. So, from JSS2 to JSS3, teachers had already started saying to me, ‘She’s a science student.’ So, I was, more or less, encouraged to go into science class because those were supposed to be the more intelligent people. And in science, of course, there were only a few considerations, Medicine being number one. They kept telling me, ‘You can study Medicine.’ And I bought it, hook, line and sinker, and I wanted to study Medicine. But by the time we got more serious in junior secondary school, I was more detached from some of the courses. In my first Senior School Certificate Examination, I had four As; I had 207 in the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination. But it was not enough to get me into Medicine in any school. It was just enough to get me into Anatomy. In fact, I had to write UTME and SSCE again. So, I struggled, so to speak. Back then, I didn’t know I was struggling. I just wanted to get into school. So, it was trying to study Medicine that made me end up in Anatomy, and I didn’t have the courage to say, ‘I think I really want to do something in the communication or Theatre Arts.’ Who are you going to tell that? The reaction would be, ‘Theatre Arts? Do you have an ambition in life?’ Did you end up doing any job relating to anatomy? (Laughs) I’m laughing at your question. Like what? I did not because there are really no jobs per se for that profession, except you want to own or run a morgue or work in a morgue, embalming dead bodies; or you want to study to go back and teach as a lecturer; or study to be a medical doctor; or you can do a Direct Entry programme and study something else in Dentistry. But on its own, there is no job in the Nigerian space for people with BSc Anatomy. Is that part of what contributed to your becoming a Master of Ceremonies? Yes, possibly. So, by the time I finished and served in the Anatomy Department of the University of Maiduguri in 2005, I got a job in a fire safety company immediately after my youth service. Six or seven months into the job, I realised that I was very restless. I was doing well but I wasn’t really enjoying what I was doing, and enjoyment was important to me. So, I quit the job without knowing what next to do, and I said, ‘Whatever it is, I’ll find it. It’s within me.’ And I had the options of acting, singing, dancing or speaking at events. I had been speaking on stage since I was a teenager. I had emceed all sorts of events, but as a hobby. Unofficially, it would be 21 years since the first time I held the microphone as an MC at age 10. That was in 1992 at the First Lady’s Children’s Concert organised by (the late Mrs) Maryam Babangida in Abuja. But on November 11, 2007, where I emceed an event here in Lagos, the commendation was just so good. Three women came up to the stage to say, ‘Well done!’ One of them was Genevieve Nnaji and she said, ‘You did so well. I have a programme coming up in May next year. I think you will be my MC.’ Adesuwa Onyenekwe was the second person and she said, ‘I have a programme in February; you have to be there and do something for me.’ The third person was TY Bello. She came up and said, ‘You’re so graced for this.’ I just decided there that ‘these women don’t know me from Adam; I’m not a superstar that they are famzing.’ They were just being sincere and this sincerity meant something. I held onto it and I said to myself, ‘Going forward, this is what you will do. You already do it well, anyway, and you enjoy it, and people are paying, so why not?’ And that’s how I chose it, among other considerations. What were those considerations? Number one, my name would be known. I had the opportunity to make my name known, which was something I wanted. I wanted some level of fame or popularity. I’m not going to lie about that. So, being an MC on stage and having the opportunity to introduce myself would give me that opportunity. It was a job that did not require rent or inventory. So, I didn’t need to open a store and buy and sell anything. All I needed to do was show up. It was a job that was going to get me into the corridors of what we call ‘high net worth individuals/people with power and authority’ because they are the people that will hire your services and, somehow, become friendly with you. I liked the prospect of that. I don’t want to be on stage and not be known, and get lost in the crowd. As a matter of fact, when you stand alone, you own the stage, at least most of the time. And even if you are co-emceeing with one or two other people, you don’t get lost in the crowd. So, those were appealing to me. They fit my personality. I’m that person who always was noticed when I stepped into a place and I have no qualms at all being noticed. You are mostly in green outfits; is this because of your love for Nigeria? It is, 100 per cent. When did you start wearing green? I decided to start wearing green and white to work in 2016. This was nine years into my journey as an MC because I decided to remind myself why I do what I do, which is for personal satisfaction and the benefit of my country. But because the flag has more green than white, I wear more green than white. Also, white is a little more difficult to maintain, so I shy away from it a little bit. I’ve never looked back. Initially, I wore green and white only to work, but now I wear it all the time. That’s all I have for everything. On two occasions since 2018, I have worn other colours because clients paid for me to wear their brand colours, which I also didn’t mind. I did try to convince them somewhat to let me stick to my green, but they said, ‘We would prefer you wear our brand.’ And professionalism demands that I either comply or walk away, so I said fine, it was not like it was going to kill me. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com