The Federal Government needs to replace the oil price benchmark in its annual budget with a price index of key exportable goods in a bid to broaden its revenue base, the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry has said. The President, LCCI, Mrs Toki Mabogunje, said this on Monday during a visit by a delegation of the Senior Executive Course 43, 2021 of the Nigerian Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies to the chamber. She noted that since independence, Nigeria had been involved in the creation of National Development Plans to align government actions and programmes with specific national outcomes. She said, “One of the major shortcomings of leadership in both public and private sectors is the quality of strategy and programme implementation. This has significant implications for policy and strategy outcomes. “Most often, strategies and programmes are excellent on paper but translating such programmes into concrete outcomes are often very big issues. We are generally not short of programme strategies and excellent policy documents, but implementation has always been the bane.” According to Mabogunje, the pre-eminent policy and legislative instruments for implementing the national development plans are the yearly Appropriation Acts, commonly referred to as the annual national budgets. “The specifications on government revenue sources, institutional and regulatory frameworks sustained by government’s spending, and the projects set out in the yearly budgets indicate the commitment of the government to financing subsisting national development plans,” she said. She said the budget provided for investments that would improve the role of the private sector and international financiers in financing the national development plans. “Fiscal policy remains fixated on oil, contradicting government’s often-repeated goal of broadening its revenue base. As a solution, the government needs to replace the oil price benchmark with a weighted average price, or a composite price index, of key exportable primary, semi-finished and finished goods,” Mabogunje said. She said this would serve as a robust indicator that would be more resilient to external shocks, than just crude oil price, while broadening the focus of economic policy and ensuring sectoral development. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com