The Head of the European Union delegation to Nigeria and the Economic Community of West African States, Ambassador Ketil Karlsen, has pledged the commitment of EU countries to collaborate with Nigerian businesses and the government as trusted partners to bring about greater development. This was made known in a press release by EuroCham. Karlsen who gave the assurance during the celebration of European Day by the European Business Chamber Nigeria said: “the European Union is a trusted partner not only in Nigeria but across the African continent and they are committed to end security threats across Nigeria and the regions to consolidate democracy gains”. He added that the EU as the largest trading partner with Nigeria is committed to promoting environmental and security conditions. EuroCham Nigeria, formerly known as European Business Organisation Nigeria, was founded by 18 European companies in October 2018. It seeks to further promote trade, investments and exchanges between markets outside the EU and European businesses, as well as advocating European quality standards, best practices and corporate social responsibility in over 45 key markets that serve European multinationals. Minister of Industry, Trade & Investment, Otunba Richard Adebayo CON, was reported to have lauded EuroCham Nigeria for maintaining cordial relationships with Nigerian businesses and reiterated the commitment of the federal government to invest in initiatives that will promote and foster social investment. The Chairman, Anap Business Jets Limited, Mr. Atedo Peterside CON was said to have called for a level playing field to avoid the prevalence of multiple exchange rates that have deterred foreign direct and portfolio investments. “It is becoming increasingly difficult and impossible to justify making a major investment in Nigeria as the investor is forced to compete with a few persons whose cost profile is lower on account of their privileged access to cheaper forex”. Peterside called on the investing public to embrace and apply environmental, social and governance factors as part of their investment analysis to identify material risks and the odd genuine growth opportunities as some of the socio-economic problems are man-made and can disappear as quickly as they appeared. President of EuroCham Nigeria, Mr. Adefolu Majekodunmi, who unveiled the new brand identity from European Business Organisation to European Business Chamber Nigeria, said it would establish the profile of the organisation in order to improve collaboration between European and Nigeria key business stakeholders. “The EuroCham Nigeria identity will put the organisation at a vantage position in nurturing the existing healthy business collaborations to ensure a constant link between the EU delegation to Nigeria and ECOWAS and the European business community in Nigeria, as well as to help local investors to have access to the global market opportunities,” Majekodunmi said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com