Drug distributors and importers have expressed concerns over the rising number of COVID-19 cases in India, which has inevitably led to a massive death toll and temporary closure of factories. Among other things, they warned that patients, especially those with chronic ailments such as cancer, tuberculosis, human immunodeficiency virus, and diabetes, were at risk due to an impending drug scarcity. This is just as physicians in the country called for understanding, adding that the situation could be managed without being panicky. As of Friday, India’s coronavirus infection had hit 30 million cases, with around 4,000 deaths daily. Worried by the development, the Pharmaceutical Wholesalers and Distributors Association of Nigeria on Thursday raised the alarm that Nigeria risked running out of its current stock of pharmaceutical and medical supply. The association premised its warning on the rising cases of COVID-19 in India, which is arguably Nigeria’s biggest drug importing hub. The President of the Nigerian Association of Pharmacists and Pharmaceutical Scientists in the Americas, Dr Anthony Ikeme, had also last year emphatically stated that the country expended an estimated $600m (about N276bn) annually on imported drugs from China and India. Ikeme warned that unless the Federal Government developed and executed a blueprint for the economic development of the pharmaceutical industry, the country might pay heavily for its over-reliance on the South Asian country for most medical and pharmaceutical supplies. Speaking with Sunday PUNCH, PWDAN Chairman, Dr Ernest Okafor, expressed concerns that with the temporary closure of some factories, shipping drugs from India was becoming a daunting task. He said, “Now that COVID-19 is seriously ravaging the country, we cannot even call our Indian partners for products. They won’t answer you because they are not operating right now. “The truth is, once you miss your source for water, that channel dries up. We are the feeder end, not the source. Among the world powers, it is said that when America sneezes, Africa catches a cold. The same thing is playing out. I am not a prophet of doom but I fear more is coming. “I say that because we have more of Indian representation than Chinese in the products portfolio that we are importing into the country.” According to the pharmacist, the pandemic has resulted in massive disruptions in global supply chains, adding that Nigeria, in particular, is vulnerable as over 70 per cent of its drugs supply is imported from India and China. He said, “I may not have the proper statistics but, give or take, about 60 per cent of imported products being circulated in the country are from India. Just as we have PWDAN, Indian representatives also have their own association here in the country. “That is why I said whatever affects that region will definitely affect Nigeria, not to talk of the scarcity of active pharmaceutical ingredients. Instead of giving incentives to manufacturers, what the government should do is put resources together to build a petrochemical industry. “If the Federal Government can take care of electricity and the petrochemical industry, they will rev up the economy and create employment,” he said. Another drug distributor, Ogheneochuko Omaruaye, also confirmed the development. Omaruaye, who doubles as PWDAN Vice Chairman, said drugs like paracetamol or branded essential medicines were gradually leaving pharmacy shelves. He said, “The generic drugs are becoming scarce as a result of the pandemic ravaging the Indian population. It is naturally expected that things like this might happen. “However, when the drugs become available again, our responsibility in PWDAN is to make them available in the same way and manner that they have been manufactured to retailers with patients as the end-users. We are hoping to properly address this matter.” A pharmacist and the National Chairman, Association of Pharmaceutical Importers of Nigeria, Nnamdi Obi, also said most factories in India were functioning below optimal level because of the situation in the Asian country. “Once we exhaust the stock we have presently in the market space and the situation in India doesn’t improve, the reality will dawn on Nigeria,” he said. Another pharmacist, Olabanji Obideyi, said certain drugs had already been out of stock due to the situation in India. “For HIV, TB and diabetes patients, they are going to be badly hit, because there is no drug security. Some drugs have been scarce in recent times. There is no way the situation in India won’t affect us. Most of the drugs we consume in Nigeria are from India,” he said. Doctors allay fear, eye China, Europe However, some doctors have allayed the fears of Nigerians over how the situation in India affects the importation of drugs into Nigeria. The doctors said the drugs usually imported from India could also be purchased at European countries and China, though at higher prices. A consultant clinical oncologist at the Federal Medical Centre, Abeokuta, Dr Alabi Babatunde, said the drug importers who would be affected were those procuring their drugs from pharmaceutical representatives and hospital pharmacies. He said, “They procure their drugs from pharmaceutical representatives and hospital pharmacies. It is likely they will be affected, especially when the products are coming from India. As it were, I know that Indian drugs are usually cheaper than those from European nations. “What it means is that most patients would be left with no choice but to buy the expensive ones available. I understand that India’s human capital is seriously affected by the pandemic. When that happens, a nation will have no choice but to close shops.” Also, a clinical oncologist at the College of Medicine, University of Lagos, Prof Francis Durosinmi-Etti, said there was no cause for alarm. He said the probability of the country running out of cancer drugs, for instance, was low. His optimism was equally shared by the Director of the Federal Medical Centre, Ebute Metta, Dr Adedamola Dada. “It’s true a large volume of pharmaceutical products comes from India, and the ongoing pandemic would affect drug supply and prices all over the world. But we are coping, and we will continue to cope. I am convinced Nigerians would continue to get all necessary drugs,” he stated. LASG converts COVID-19 wards to TB, HIV sections Meanwhile, the Lagos State Government has officially decommissioned the remaining volunteer health workers managing COVID-19 patients at the Infectious Disease Hospital in Yaba. The decommissioning became necessary after the isolation facility discharged the last set of COVID-19 patients, according to the state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Gbenga Omotoso. Omotoso also confirmed that many of the previous ICUs that accommodated infected persons had been converted to admission wards for TB and HIV patients. The commissioner told our correspondent that he did not see anything strange in readmitting TB and HIV patients in the former isolation wards because the facilities were originally established to accommodate infectious disease patients. The development at the isolation facilities had taken a twist last week when some of the decommissioned volunteers, in separate interviews, accused the state of subtly throwing them out of the facilities without paying their three-month remunerations. “How fair is it to decommission people who had worked from January to March, taking care of COVID-19 patients, without paying them?” one of them identified only as Bimpe had queried. When our correspondent visited the facility to verify the claim, it was gathered that only a few volunteers recruited from the private sector were paid two of their three-month remunerations. One of the workers who spoke on condition of anonymity disclosed that IDH started admitting HIV and TB patients on April 30, which was their last day at the facility. “They have wards A, B and C. The TB and HIV patients were admitted at wards A and B while Ward C was reserved for suspected and confirmed COVID-19 cases. As of the time we left, they no longer had COVID-19 patients again. They were only taking care of HIV and TB patients,” the worker said. Mortality rate for ‘very’ sick COVID-19 patients in Africa higher than normal –Study Meanwhile, a new groundbreaking study on COVID-19 by Africa-based professors has indicated that adult mortality from 30 days of the coronavirus, after being admitted to critical care with suspected or confirmed infection, appeared considerably high in Africa. A critical factor in these excess deaths may be a lack of intensive care resources and underuse of it, the researchers noted in the study, published on Friday in the British medical journal, The Lancet. The News Agency of Nigeria reported that the study focused on 64 hospitals in 10 countries – Egypt, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Libya, Malawi, Mozambique, Niger, Nigeria, and South Africa. Prof Akinyinka Omigbodun of the University College Hospital, Ibadan, Oyo State, and Prof Adesoji Ademuyiwa of the Lagos University Teaching Hospital were the leads in the Nigerian study. The researchers said the challenges faced by critically ill Nigerian COVID-19 patients could be partly mitigated by ensuring the availability of the human and material resources needed for their care. “It can be demoralising for health personnel to watch helplessly as patients succumb to the shortage of oxygen needed to keep them alive till the body can tackle the virus,” they said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com