The altercation between Iyabo Jimoh, a food vendor on Banana Island Road, Ikoyi, Lagos, and some officials of Kick Against Indiscipline was alien to the upscale neighbourhood. The commotion grew more intense as the 37-year-old trader fought tooth and nail to prevent about five officials from destroying a table she used in displaying bread and beans. It was 2pm on Tuesday and the enforcement team was on a routine patrol in the highbrow community to sack street traders and remove illegal makeshift structures defacing the plush ambience.  The faceoff left Jimoh embittered as she scurried around to pick up loaves of bread thrown on the ground by one of the officials in the ensuing wrangling. “Why are you making life difficult for us? Task force men came yesterday (Monday) and packed everything,” she blustered, standing toe to toe with the official. “If the rich say they don’t want to see us around, who among them will help us to pay our children’s school fees or give us money to rent a shop?” she said, scowling at the team. It took the intervention of a police officer and some artisans at a nearby workshop to prevail on the men from impounding her wares. “I have been selling food here for over 20 years,” Jimoh told our correspondent after the team left. “I used to be inside that compound before the owner told me and other traders to leave,” she said pointing at an enclosed parcel of land close to her stand. Except on Sundays, Jimoh resumes at the spot every day from Bariga — about 20 kilometres away — to sell food to domestic workers, labourers and artisans in the area. “This is the only means I have to take care of my children,” the vendor said, trying to wash plates scattered on the floor. “I have five children and all of them are in school. Two of them are in secondary school while the three others are in primary school.” She added, “The suffering is too much. If I had the means, I would rent a shop. The labourers working on building projects buy on credit from us till the end of the week when they will be paid. Some KAI officials would come and collect money from me. Earlier today, a team had collected N500 from me. This team would have also demanded money if not for their boss who followed them. Whenever they seize our wares, we pay N5,000 to N10,000 to recover them.” Overlooked by Lagos lagoon, Victoria Island offers a classy comfort zone to wealthy individuals and corporate establishments seeking some sanity away from the bustling city.  From terraced buildings to high-rise mansions knitted by well-pruned flowers and beautiful trees dotting its landscape, VI houses many magnificent estates including Banana Island and Parkview Estate. Many who reside in the alluring hood do so in the hope of escaping from the buzz of city life which is now creeping into their enclave. Apart from Jimoh and other food vendors trading by the roadside, noisy drinking and smoking joints, premier lotto stands, roadside mechanic ‘workshop,’ and makeshift barber shops have become common sights in the community. Smokers taking charge During a visit to the area, our correspondent saw about three joints along Banana Island Road. At a lawn some metres away from a T-junction of the road, a shabbily dressed man lying on the grass was seen puffing on a wrap of substance suspected to be Indian hemp. Close to the Banana Island gate, a dark-complexioned young man clad in blue jeans and a blue top was seen sauntering around bare-footed with a smoke smoldering in-between his left fingers “We don’t have anything to say,” a tough-looking young man who’s a member of a clique in one of the joints said when approached by Saturday PUNCH. “You can talk to other people on the street,” he added dismissively before gulping a sachet of gin. A roadside mechanic, who identified himself simply as Olaniyi, told our correspondent that the joints used to be many until recent raids by law enforcement agents. He said, “I do not really blame KAI people for carrying out raids here. Some bad boys smoking Indian hemp and people selling drugs and gin constitute nuisance in the area. We see them smoking and walking on the road. We are not saying they (KAI officials) should not do their work; we are only appealing to them to have mercy on those of us who are struggling to make ends meet. I come from Iyana Oworo to work here. We were initially using a parcel of land that belongs to a church as a workshop but we were sent packing this week because of a fight last Sunday among the boys. We don’t have any other place to go.” Trading zone From Parkview Estate along Turnbull Road to Banana Island, street trading holds sway. Some of the traders who spoke to Saturday PUNCH insisted that they render essential services and not causing environmental nuisance as alleged. A drink and food seller at an open space along Banana Island Road said domestic workers patronise her shop “because their boss won’t give them food.” “Some bosses would give their domestic staff even a meal a day. Those people (home helps) cannot afford to buy food at eateries so they prefer to come here,” the trader, who gave her name only as Mama Esther, added. One of the barbers on Turnbull Road, Kunle Babajide, said people working for the rich prefer to cut their hair in his stand because they couldn’t pay the amount charged at well-furnished barber shops in the area. He said, “It (haircut) is just N300 here. They don’t bother to go to salons within the community because it is too expensive. So, we are useful to them. “Some people are claiming that Ikoyi has been invaded by riff-raffs but that is not true. Early in the morning, a lot of people come to work at building sites. Some of them come from far places and don’t return home until the weekend because of transport fares.” Babajide added that despite his stand being raided by KAI officials many times with his working tools seized, he refused to leave the spot because he did not have the means to rent a shop. He stated, “I feed my family and pay my children school fees with this work. Where can I get N500,000 to rent a shop around Obalende? I have no other means of livelihood and I can’t abandon this one. KAI officials have seized my working tools many times. I am not happy to be here but I cannot help it. I have to hustle to cater to my family.” An itinerant tailor, Ibrahim Audu, said that guards working in houses in the neighbourhood were his customers. “I collect N100 to N200 from them to help them mend their torn clothes,” Audu said in Pidgin English. “This is what I have been doing for over two years I came here,” he added, sitting on a pavement to have some rest. “I sleep somewhere around there,” he responded leisurely, pointing at a building site, when asked where he passes the night. A lotto operator, who declined to give her name, admitted that street trading was wrong, noting however that it was the only option currently available to her.   “I don’t really have a problem with them,” she said referring to the KAI officials carrying out enforcement operations in the area. She added, “They are doing their job. Government empowers them to carry out the raids. Truly, we are not supposed to be trading by the roadside. We were ejected from the place we normally used and my boss doesn’t have the means to get another shop yet.” A resident of Parkview Estate, Tolulope Akinola, said that street trading was unavoidable in the community, adding that thugs and drug peddlers must be flushed out. He said, “The rich cannot be without the poor. If they (the rich) send all the food vendors away, what will their security men and housekeepers eat? They should create space for them. However, some traders like those selling clothes, gins, and drugs should be evicted.” Akinola added that the sundry construction works into the estate on a daily basis contributed to the rowdiness of the community, claiming that some of the workers spend a week at sites most times. He noted, “Those labourers roam the streets and many of them don’t go home until weekend. There are also some boys who always smoke around. That is the kind of people they should get of this place.” “Abandoned houses harbour criminals” The Chief Security Officer, Parkview Estate, Mr Muyiwa Safari, said that some buildings in the vicinity had been abandoned for years and become hideouts for criminals. He urged the authorities to provide a place for the street traders to restore sanity to the community. Safari stated, “The majority of traders on the streets are those looking for daily bread. If alternatives are not provided for them, it will remain like that. It is difficult to send them away without providing an alternative for them. “The problem is most of the abandoned houses here have become hideouts for criminals. The only solution is that the abandoned buildings in Ikoyi should be taken over by the government. Government needs to do something.” Messages sent on Wednesday to the emails of the Banana Island Property Owners and Residents Association, Lagos and Parkview Residents Association on the development in the community have yet to be replied to as of press time. Govt to seal unoccupied buildings, remove shanties The Lagos State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotoso, said the government would soon remove illegal structures in the area as part of the ongoing regeneration scheme in the state. He said, “There are many shanties in Ikoyi that will be taken out any moment from now. They (illegal occupants) will get notices to quit. If you are occupying a place legally, the government is obliged to provide an alternative. Lagos has a good history of paying compensation to those who deserve it. But if you are occupying a place illegally, I am afraid there is nothing the government can do about it. “As for the abandoned buildings, there is going to be a warning that anybody who has left his property unoccupied or left it for anybody to occupy and do whatever they like, such property, especially ones seen to have become haven for people of shady character, will be sealed off and the law will take its course” Also, the state Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development in a statement last Friday by the Commissioner, Mr Idris Salako, said the government would no longer allow abandoned buildings “for security and safety reasons.” The ministry stated that owners or developers of uncompleted buildings should always ensure safety and cleanliness of the property, adding that construction workers would no longer be allowed to pass the night at sites. The statement added, “Hence, owners/developers who fail to comply with above conditions within 30 days would have their buildings sealed off and further actions will be taken where necessary.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com