On the eve of the 2003/2004 conference, I was ambushed by the press and chartered accountants who were mostly partners of small and medium sized firms. First, they alleged that President Olusegun Obasanjo had been making more serious accusations against chartered accountants along with disparaging remarks about our role in the management (or mismanagement)of the Nigerian economy.  Hence, we should be ready for hellfire and brimstone when he would deliver his address to about 5,000 Chartered Accountants at the International Conference Centre. What was of even greater concern to the small firms was that they were very angry that KPMG along with the other “Big 4” accountancy firms were about to launch a programme tagged, “Graduate Training”, ostensibly to train staff of small firms for six months and expose them to a different environment as well as skills set and international work experience.  They were alarmed that it was all a ruse – at best a Trojan horse and at worst a Greek gift.  They saw it as a ploy to poach their staff. I was truly taken aback by the gravity of their animosity and intense resentment of the “Big 4” firms – of which KPMG was the largest at that time. Clearly, there was a massive trust deficit.  They really had me on the defensive when they alleged that KPMG was conspiring with the others to totally dominate the accountancy profession and drive the smaller firms (who were struggling to survive) out of the market and collapse their business.  I became even more alarmed when their leader reminded me that the doctrine/dictum of Sir Ronald Leach was the touchstone not only for KPMG but all chartered accountants – whether big or small firms.  However, they cannot buy into it on empty stomachs and business failure.  As for being hunters or herdsmen (whether armed with AK-47 or not), that has to be a matter for serious interrogation.  However, we had to first deal with the threat of “genocide” which had thrown the small firms into disarray, distress and panic. I took pains to carefully explain to them (and this lasted until the early hours of the morning) that their fears were entirely unfounded. Contrary to their allegations, what KPMG and the other “Big Four” firms were committed to doing was to restore faith and confidence in the quality of audited financial statements by Nigerian firms whether or not they belong to the major firms.  Hence, instead of the “Big 4”, the number of firms was raised to the “Big 8” which allowed four “indigenous” firms to join. In addition, we would support Joint Audits (one big firm and a small firm) and thereby galvanise knowledge sharing. Also, whenever our international partners and experts organised seminars and conferences either in Nigeria or abroad, we would extend invitation to smaller firms. Additionally, we gave an undertaking that we would refrain from poaching the staff or clients of the smaller firms. Additionally, in order to discourage clients from “shopping around”, we would apply the integrity test rigorously before accepting any new Clients. I was also able to provide them of numerous instances where we had turned down being appointed as auditors and had recommended the clients to smaller firms in whom we had confidence – particularly firms set up by our former staff as a gesture of goodwill. Perhaps, I should add that even before I left Lagos for Abuja, the irrepressible Dr. “De Gaulle” Lawal (an old boy of King’s College, Lagos) who graduated in medicine from the University of Ibadan had held me virtually hostage in my own house when in his characteristically  blunt and uncompromising manner confronted me with an amazing accusation – that as President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria; and Chairman & Chief Executive of KPMG I was part of the elite conspiracy to foist unrealistic expectations on Nigerian (especially the poor and underprivileged).  How could we not know that the nation was heading for doom and disaster ? It was to no avail that I pleaded with him that we, chartered accountants, are not part of the political architecture.  Hence, the issues he was raising belonged elsewhere.  He would not budge. Before he departed, he revealed that he had just delivered the same message to then Brigadier (later Major General) Olaseinde Ishola-Williams who was his classmate at King’s College and that between the two of them, there was not much difference when it came to the issue of systemic corruption and institutionalised incompetence. His final warning was:  “Take my word for it – Nigeria will end up at the bottom of the pile in terms of development but at the top of the ladder in terms of poverty, ignorance and corruption.  Instead of farmers who are entitled to a bountiful harvest, the nation will be held to ransom by wayfarers, bandits and herdsmen.” Sadly, “De Gaulle” Lawal had since passed on.  Thankfully, Ishola-Williams is still alive and well.  He remains a formidable anti-corruption crusader.  He deserves commendation for the vigour with which he has pursued his ideals and the consistency as well as robustness of his convictions. The accountancy profession has given us an excellent opportunity to contribute our own quota to the development of our nation and the ring-fencing of the treasury.  If our nation is saddled with abandoned projects, we need to re-check whether somewhere along the line we have veered from the established dictates, ethos, ethics and canons of our chosen profession.  Nobody conscripted us into the accountancy profession.  We chose to join and belong. At the end of the day, we are (to quote from “Lord Of The Rings” by J. R. R. Tolkien) as Tom Bombadil says to Frodo: “Who are you, alone, yourself and nameless?” Bashorun Randle, a former President of the Institute of the Chartered Accountants of Nigeria and former Chairman of KPMG Nigeria and Africa Region,  is now Chairman, JK Randle Professional Services. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com