The Ignatius Ajuru University of Education, Port Harcourt, said six of its students have been expelled for various offences, including the gang rape of a female colleague in one of the institution’s hostels. Vice-Chancellor of the institution, Prof. Ndimele Ozo-Mekuri, disclosed this in a statement in Port Harcourt on Wednesday made available to journalists in Port Harcourt. In the statement titled ‘Expulsion from the university,’ Prof. Ozo-Mekuri said of the six students, three were expelled after they were found culpable of rape allegations and the case referred to the school disciplinary committee. The statement read, “The Senate of Ignatius Ajuru University of Education has expelled the following students from the University for various offences: “Mr. Bekwele Ogbondah Godspower – UE/ACCT/B.ED4/0100 – Accounting Department, who defrauded fellow students of their school fees and issued them fake online University receipts. “The majority of the victims in Level 100 in the 2019/2020 session lost their admission. “Mr. Linus Hans – UE/2018/BSc.Ed4/0525 – Accounting Department, for sealing a fellow student’s phone. Mr. Nnamdi Destiny – UE/2018/POL.SC/BSc4/0062 – Political Science – involved in a gang rape of a female student in the hostel. “Mr. Samuel Valentine – UE/2017/POL.SC/BSc4/2059 – Political Science – involved in a gang rape of a female student in the hostel. Mr. Chukwuemeka Amajuoyi – UE/THA/BA4/0019 – Theatre and Film Studies –involved in gang rape of a female student in the hostel. Mr. Ovunwo Henry Junior- (Level 100, not yet issued Mat. No as at the time of the incident.” Reacting to the expulsion, a right group, the Centre for Basic Rights Protection and Accountability Campaign lauded the senate of the university for the action. The group’s head, Women Mobilization, Uzoma Kelechi in a statement said the university authority has proven that issues of sexual violence do not have a place in the school. Kelechi who said the body has been following the matter since it occurred in October last year said the institution has restored public confidence by ensuring that appropriate sanction was meted out to perpetrators of crime, especially in the case of rape. She added, “This action by the institution is a bold statement and it would serve as a deterrent to others. We also commend the VC for keeping to his words of ensuring justice for the rape victim.”