EBONYI State Governor, David Umahi, on Sunday ordered an investigation into the attack and kidnap of his former aide, Amos Ogbonnaya. Ogbonnaya, the Coordinator of Anuagata Development Centre, in Ohaozara Local Government of the state, was said to have been kidnapped and tortured, last Thursday by hoodlums suspected to be political thugs and was freed on Friday. The Peoples Democratic Party has equally urged the Inspector General of Police, Usman Alkali, to investigate the abduction. The main opposition party in the state said it no longer had confidence in the Commissioner of Police in the state, CP Aliyu Garba, saying the police boss was maintaining a partial stance in the handling of the matter. The PDP stated this in a statement signed by its Publicity Secretary, Silas Onu, on Sunday night. Part of the statement read, “We are calling on the IGP, even as our leaders take necessary steps in that direction, to personally open an investigation into this high crime. Immunity does not last forever. “The call for a full scale investigation into the matter has become necessary because “how can one government issue conflicting positions on one incident if they are not covering up something? “The Commissioner for Information had rushed to adopt a spineless post made by one of their urchins wherein they exposed themselves by attempting to throw mud around instead of behaving like a government and show concern for someone they abducted. “The Commissioner of Police, Ebonyi State, has also demonstrated an attitude that does not allow any right thinking person to trust in his capacity to conduct a genuine investigation into this crime. We are calling on the IGP, even as our leaders take necessary steps in that direction to personally open an investigation into this high crime.” The PDP and the All Progressives Congress had accused each other of having a hand in the mastermind of the former governor’s aide kidnap and torture. But Umahi, who condemned the kidnap, ordered investigation into the incident, saying the situation did not augur well for the nation’s collective and nascent democracy. Umahi stated this in a statement by his Special Assistant on Media, Francis Nwaze, on Sunday. “Having followed the trend of events, including accusations and counter-accusations in some quarters, the Governor of Ebonyi State, David Umahi, condemns the unsavoury situation in strong terms, knowing that such is unhealthy for collective democratic existence. “The governor has directed the police and other security agencies to swing into action by unearthing all perpetrators of the dastardly act to enable them to face justice. He wishes Mr. Ogbonna a quick recovery,” the statement read. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com