THE anti-corruption war of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), is facing a credibility crisis. No thanks to a disturbing trend where probes are conducted controversially and clandestinely, while the reports of such investigations are never made public and those found wanting are never charged. It happened again last year when erstwhile acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Ibrahim Magu, who had been involved in a public feud with the Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, was probed by the Ayo Salami-led panel for alleged corruption for five months, while Magu was placed on indefinite suspension. Malami, who was invited by the panel to respond to allegations, ignored the summons. Along the line, a new EFCC chairman was subsequently appointed, although the report of the panel was not made public, while no one has been charged for malfeasance arising from the probe since the report was submitted over six months ago. Similarly, in 2017, over $43 million found in an apartment in Ikoyi, Lagos, was traced to the National Intelligence Agency and became a subject of a probe headed by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. The report was not made public, and no one has been brought to book. In 2018, the Federal Government similarly set up a panel to probe the Executive Secretary of the National Health Insurance Scheme, Usman Yusuf. After months of sitting, the report was never made public although a recommendation that he be sacked for financial impropriety was implemented. Till date, Yusuf has not been prosecuted. The latest episode involves the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, and the Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority, Hadiza Bala-Usman. As usual, a panel has been set up by the regime to investigate the accounts of the NPA, while Bala-Usman has been asked to step aside pending the conclusion of the probe. The probe reportedly centres on the alleged non-remittance of N165 billion to the Consolidated Revenue Fund. The Director of Finance and Administration, Mohammed Koko, was appointed as the acting MD, while the Director of Maritime Services, Suleiman Auwalu, was named the chairman of the investigative committee. Indeed, the refusal of government agencies to remit funds into the Federation Account should not be taken lightly. In 2020, the Fiscal Responsibility Commission said 122 Federal Government agencies failed to remit N1.2 trillion to the CRF in blatant violation of statutory financial obligations by government agencies. To date, no one has been brought to book, while the government continues to incur humongous debts to fund its budget. Any investigation that centres on the failure of any government agency to remit funds is therefore welcome. Defeating corruption remains a sine qua non for Nigeria’s development, but this can only be achieved when persons who have mismanaged funds are brought to book. There must also be sincerity in the fight against corruption if it is to succeed. In the past week, official memos have been leaked to the media amid allegations that the entire NPA probe is a ruse by vested interests to settle scores over lucrative contracts running into billions of dollars. In discharging its work, the panel must therefore proceed cautiously and be shielded from coercion or manipulation. Buhari must prove to Nigerians that the much-trumpeted anti-corruption crusade is not a charade by ensuring that the panel’s full report is made public. Earlier in the year, Transparency International ranked Nigeria a woeful 149 out of 180 countries, scoring 25 out of 100 points. This corresponds with the fact that corruption in Nigeria has remained a permanent stain despite Buhari’s constant posturing. Corruption is primarily driven by the structure of the country’s political system and the role that Nigeria’s political leadership plays in governance. Therefore, several revenue-generating agencies have continued to operate in an opaque manner to the benefit of the ruling class, which uses such money to fund elections and enrich themselves. For decades, Nigerian ports have failed to actualise their potential despite the concessions granted to several private firms to operate terminals. The corruption, dilapidated infrastructure, weak enforcement of existing laws within the ports and a clear lack of political will have continued to undermine reforms and contributed to the delay in clearing goods, especially in the Lagos area, which handles 75 per cent of the nation’s cargo. A 2019 study by the Organised Private Sector noted that the economy was losing N6 trillion annually to intractable congestion. Unsurprisingly, in its 2019 assessment of ports infrastructure, the World Economic Forum ranked Nigeria 122 out of 139 countries with an abysmal score of 2.5 over seven, while countries like Zimbabwe, Zambia, Uganda and Burkina Faso, Angola and neighbouring Cameroon ranked higher than Nigeria. Ironically, a PwC analysis shows that a 25 per cent improvement in ports performance could increase GDP by 2.0 per cent. That translates to a whopping $8.9 billion. PwC warns that unless corruption is tackled comprehensively, it could cost Nigeria up to 37 per cent of GDP by 2030. How can this be averted? Studies have shown that where the generality of the people either distrust the government or are willing to tolerate graft, it is an uphill task for any anti-corruption crusade to succeed. Currently, Nigerians neither trust the government and its institutions nor demonstrate strong aversion to graft and its perpetrators. With barely two years left to the end of his regime, Buhari must revive the failing anti-corruption war by ensuring it is prosecuted transparently. The current NPA probe opens another window of opportunity for him to redeem himself. The report should be made public to regain the support of Nigerians. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com