Winners have emerged in Wema Bank Plc’s Hackaholics 2.0 bootcamp organised for startups to help them to gain entrance into the market. The bank disclosed this on Tuesday in a statement titled ‘Wema Bank unveils Hackaholic 2.0 bootcamp winners…Doles out over N8m seed fund to all winning start-ups’. The bank said the winners were unveiled at its corporate head office in Lagos. It said the programme had the theme ‘Connecting Worlds’, and was a two-day virtual pitch for 20 participants across five industry pillars, which were fintech, agritech, edutech, gaming, and healthtech. According to the statement, the winners qualified from a pool of over 100 entries received. The bank said it presented four startups, comprising two people each, with N2.19m startup fund. The winners emerged across each industry after a four-week bootcamp under the supervision of a best-in-class acceleration curriculum delivered by seasoned faculty and tech specialists from GreenHouse Capital, official partners of the event, it stated. The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Wema Bank, Ademola Adebise, said, “We are happy to see the winners emerge and are positive that you guys will be the unicorns of tech solutions in the next couple of years. The statement said the winner for the fintech category was Oladayo Awotukunbo of Plumpter, a fintech brand that created a marketplace for secure payments to foreign parties and quick banking; while the gaming/betting category winner were Ernest Akinlola and Obayemi Okubajo of My Lotto Hub, a digital startup pioneering the aggregation of lottery operators and enabling lottery punters to manage all their operations in a single platform. It added that the winner for agritech category were Aderinola Amole and Olamide Oyinlola of FarmSquare, a brand that focused on using the e-commerce model to simplify the demand and supply of agricultural inputs in Nigeria; while the healthtech category winners were Uche Udekwe and Joy Chioma of Natal Cares, a startup with a product that optimised the healthcare value chain to reduce the high mortality rate for pregnant women and children. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com