The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on April 22, 2021 announced the appointment of 18 additional justices for the Court of Appeal in line with his powers under Section 238 of the 1999. What should have been a seamless appointment process is, however, now mired in controversy. Traditionally, the inauguration of the newly appointed justices is done by the Chief Justice of Nigeria. However, the CJN in a statement issued a directive postponing the inauguration of the justices indefinitely ostensibly because of the ongoing strike by the Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria. The statement went further to give another reason, which was that the newly appointed judges were expected to “clear their desks” in their various offices at the high courts before assuming office in their new position as Court of Appeal justices. The latter part of the reason for the postponement is suspect as it calls into question the real motive behind the postponement, as well as the constitutionality of such directives. It is to be taken for granted that the directive by the CJN that the new justices “clear their desks” means nothing than that the erstwhile judges of the high courts should conclude ongoing cases which have reached advanced stages at their respective high courts before their inauguration as justices of the Court of Appeal.  What is most worrying about the directive is its apparent illegality in the face of constitutional provisions and judicial authorities on appointments and functions of judges. By virtue of Section 238 of the constitution, the appointment of a justice of the Court of Appeal takes effect from the date of appointment, and not the date of their inauguration prescribed by Section 290 of the constitution (as amended). The effect of this is that from the date of appointment of a person as a justice of the Court of Appeal from the high court, such a person ceases to be a judge of the high court and becomes a justice of the appeal court, the lack of inauguration notwithstanding. The necessary legal implication flowing from this is that any further judicial act that is carried out by such a person sitting as a judge of the high court from the date of appointment to the Court of Appeal is devoid of legality, without jurisdiction, and is null and void. This was the precedent laid down by the Supreme Court in the case of Ogbuyinya v. Okudo 1979 (Vol. 12) NSCC PG. 77. The judge in the case, Nnaemeka-Agu, had concluded trial and adjourned the case for judgment to June 17, 1977. However, two days prior to the date scheduled for delivery of the judgment, the learned jurist was elevated and appointed on June 15, 1977 as a justice of the Court of Appeal from the High Court of Onitsha. The judge, however, went ahead to deliver the judgment on June 17, 1977 as scheduled. In the appeal filed challenging the legality of the judge’s action, it was argued on behalf of the appellant at the Supreme Court that the judge ceased to be a judge of the Onitsha High Court from the date of his elevation to the Court of Appeal on June 15, 1977, and therefore lacked the power and jurisdiction to deliver the judgment as he did on June 17, 1977. This argument was upheld by the Supreme Court, which came to the conclusion that the inauguration of judges is a mere formality that signifies the resumption of their duties as justices, but that their status as a judge commenced from the date of appointment. The decision of the Supreme Court in Ogbuyinya’s case was upheld in the subsequent case of Our Line Limited v. S.C.C. Nigeria Limited (2009) 17 NWLR (PT. 1170) PG. 382 and recently in the controversial case of Ude Jones Udeogu v FRN & Ors (Orji Kalu’s Case) determined by the Supreme Court on May 8, 2020. It is instructive to point out that in Kalu’s case, there is an express provision of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act – Section 396(7) which purports to empower a judge of the high court who has been appointed to the Court of Appeal to continue to hear part-heard criminal cases. The then trial judge, Mohammed Idris, in Kalu’s case, took advantage of this provision and was issued a fiat by the President of the Court of Appeal to continue with the trial at the Federal High Court notwithstanding his elevation to the Court of Appeal. The Supreme Court, however, did not agree with this novel introduction in the ACJA. In striking down Section 396(7), the Supreme Court concluded that the provisions of the ACJA cannot purport to override the 1999 Constitution. Relying on the authorities from Ogbuyinya’s case up to the recent decision in Kalu’s case, the inevitable and irresistible conclusion to come to is that the CJN lacks the power to direct the High Court Justices elevated to the Court of Appeal to continue to function as trial justices in their respective courts. By extension, the justices lack the legal authority to comply with the directives of the CJN as any purported proceedings or act carried out by the elevated justices as High Court judges from the date of their appointment as Court of Appeal justices would be without jurisdiction, unconstitutional and of no legal effect. It is therefore imperative that the newly appointed justices be sworn in as soon as practicable after the end of the industrial action embarked upon by JUSUN. Aileru is a legal practitioner based in Lagos and writes via aileruyinka@yahoo.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com