CHIMA AZUBUIKE captures the glamour and spectacle of this year’s durbar in Gombe State Horses, coloured attire, ear-soothing music and a large crowd set the tone for the 2021 colourful Durbar in Gombe State. The ceremony is traceable to a pre-colonial act of martial display with riders wielding sticks as well as warriors on the land. The atmosphere is usually characterised with sounds from dane guns which is usually shot into the air, with smell of locally-made gunpowder laced with nylon to make the sound travel far. The procession comes alive with the traditional ruler seated on a well-decorated horse usually white which signifies royalty and peace. He is always accompanied by titled holders in the emirate and his royal guards. Durbar usually presents the unique opportunity to see traditional rulers whom are usually dressed in splendour to the admiration of the public. The earliest Durbar was held in Kano in 1911, 1924, 1925, 1948, 1960 and 1972. Since then, the event has become a regular festival in Gombe created from the old Bauchi in 1996. The colourful festival Some of the horse riders clad in royal apparels regaled in the energy of the festival. They add charm to the durbar with their adroitness on horses. One of the riders, Abdullahi Mustapha, said he looked forward to the durbar to relieve stress and feel good. Mustapha said, “It is usually an opportunity to showcase the rich culture and tradition in the states of northern Nigeria as it affords our people to not only see but to interact with their leaders. As you can see I’m doing this with so much excitement and I can’t wait for the next one to take place to enjoy the occasion.” Another horse rider, Shehu Bolari’s joy in partaking in this year’s durbar was clearly glaring in his joyful looks. He noted that it was always a delight participating in the event. He stated, “Horses represent royalty and we are royals. A beggar can’t be seen mounting a horse or participating in such a royal event. It usually affords us the opportunity to pay homage to our Emir. It is rare to sight our traditional rulers anywhere and anyhow but this creates the unusual opportunity to see them in public.” During the event, traditional title holders usually pay homage to the Emir in this case His Royal Highness, Emir of Gombe, Alhaji Abubakar Abubakar III, alongside his households was honoured. The warriors clans always gallop at high speed, chant and stop in front of the traditional ruler who gladly receives their homage. For Yakubu Sambo, he looks forward to the event which he says is rich in cultural displays. Sambo said, “As you must have observed not everyone partakes in homage-paying not because they don’t want to embark on this adventure but maybe because they are not qualified to. A commoner does not pay tribute to the traditional ruler but a man of skill and a son of the soil would do that.  Durbar is an essential part of our emirate. Gombe emirate as you know is a mix of Hausa/Fulani. It goes beyond our way of entertaining the crowd; it is also a way of life.” On the day the event was held, a first-time visitor to Gombe Emir’s palace would be surprised at the human and vehicular traffic from the palace, through Bubayero Primary to Cross and all the way to Sabon line areas of the state depending on the point of entry. The visitor would have to seek an alternative route if the durbar arena is not the preferred location. But to a resident, the spectacle would be welcoming after attending prayer at the various Eid grounds to enjoy the appeal of durbar. Another rider, Haruna Yelma, seen relishing the moment with his beautifully decorated Horse, said from the Eid-ground he pictured the beauty of the festival. Yelma noted that the occasion often offers riders the opportunity to savour the moment among themselves. He stated, “From the central Eid-ground where I prayed, I was hoping that we would have the chance to climb immediately. I love to ride my horse but the durbar is an unusual experience where one climbs alongside the emir. The moment I love most is when we gallop fast to proclaim loyalty and respect to the emir of Gombe. It is indeed a delight.” Danjuma Kalla is another skilful rider. He told our correspondent that he had been involved in the event for a long time and was wary of mistakes. Kalla added that he always intentionally exhibited his horse-riding skills to the delight of the audience. He said, “Many were afraid that I may fall but it is difficult for me to fall or get injured just like that. I started this act long ago and I have been participating in durbar for a long time. It is always a delight and I haven’t seen a better Eid-el-fitr without durbar. The festival adds colour to the celebration. It makes the moment a pleasurable delight. I started riding at age 10 and now I’m in my mid 50s.’’ Also, another experienced horse-rider, Garuba Lawan, told our correspondent how he fell off a horse five years ago and was rushed to an orthopaedic hospital for treatment. Lawan said his love for the festival couldn’t be waned by the experience. He added, “I have chosen to celebrate and to join in this year’s occasion. It feels good to be back. I have missed durbar. I only watched the event while I was recuperating but at the moment I have the clean bill of health. I was in fact certified healthy since the last two years but last year’s COVID-19 made it impossible for me to enjoy the moment. Last two years, I only watched as other riders exhibited their skills. In a nutshell, I have learnt to be careful.” The economic angle The festival allows the traders to make brisk business by displaying wares and selling to the attendees. Around the festival venue, many people were seen displaying various wares such as toys and games after parting with the approved fee. Each of the games ranges from N10 to N50, with kids paying to participate. A game shop owner, Danjuma Garba, offered participants a game requiring any player to play three rubber tyres for N20 and win a prize. In the game, the player is required to fling the tyre above some items to win a prize. Garba added, “Not many people get to win by flinging the tyres above any of the items. We usually collect three rubber tyres for N20 and the player can win items worth N1, 000. It is just for fun and we keep the kids busy while their parents enjoy the activities of Durbar.” A hotel manager around the state metropolis, Bitrus Galilus, said they usually don’t have guests occupy the rooms in the hotel, stating that the durbar and other festivals usually present an opportunity for incomparable patronage. He said, “We rarely have our rooms filled but during festive periods like the durbar many of our rooms are occupied. However, we occasionally have to refer intending lodgers to other places. “The demands are usually high and sometimes, we can’t fully measure up but we are not doing badly. The more the clients, the greater the services charge for staff and management. It is an opportunity we always look forward to because of the likely gains. Last year, due to coronavirus lockdown, the durbar did not happen and business was greatly affected. ‘Not everyone owns a horse’ Dogari Saleh is involved in horse rental and sales. He is also a trainer and participates in the festival. Saleh stated that the search for horses usually increased during festive periods, adding that many of the horses on display were mostly on rental basis. He said, “Owning a horse is not an easy ride, so most of the riders rent them for a fee. The rental fee for a horse is based on type, shape, size and sometimes weight. The rich have a farm where horses are kept and we take care of them for a fee. However, the not too wealthy ones also have their horses but for those who cannot afford to own horses, they depend on us to rent for use. The palace has horses but it is for people to have their own horses. Rearing cattle is not the same thing as training horses. It’s demanding and expensive. All that is usually put into consideration in the amount we charge for the rent. We also take cognisance of the health of the horses. If anything happens to the horses while on rent, it’s a big problem. But it is usually unlikely for anything to happen to them because they are well-taken care of.” He described 2020 as a hard one for the business because COVID-19 prevented the festival from holding, adding that they recorded a low patronage that year. Saleh noted that he did some good to augment the amount spent on training, sales and care for the horses, adding that he preferred renting them out for activities than to selling them. He said, “Renting on a daily basis ranges between N10, 000 and N20, 000. It may be more depending on the species. Anyone can thus imagine what we lose financially whenever durbar doesn’t hold. We spend an average of between N5,000 and N8,000 to feed each horse. There are different types. There are those from Argentina and other places. “We also have clothing materials dependent on who is renting a horse. The person may be rich enough to request the same colour with his material. However, many also want us to help them train them as well as rent coverings for their horses. This is a special arrangement because horse training is not cheap. It requires countless lessons and we must have started well enough before the day for the displays. We don’t give clothes for free. The rent is between N500 and N2,000 depending on the quality.” Speaking about the festival, Ambassador Haruna Garba, who holds the Magayaki Gombe title (Magayaki literally means an individual who foresees war and advises the emir), said the Durbar in Gombe had experienced growth since it started. Garba added that the festival was usually a sight to behold. He said, “Durbar is a cultural dress and horse craftsmanship displayed by emirs and chiefs during festive or other important occasions. This occasion was modernised during the reign of the late emir, Alhaji Shehu Abubakar, with the support of the then governor, Alhaji Mohammed Goje; Sarkin Yakin Gombe.” “Recall that recently His Royal Highness, the current emir, Alhaji Abubakar Shehu III, in Kaduna became 1st. He has since then been improving on the style, colour and size of the cultural event and portraying Gombe to be such a culturally rich place on the world map.” Many of the respondents who spoke to Sunday PUNCH bemoaned the negative impact of coronavirus on the event last year. Our correspondent observed that aside the dignitaries including the governor and the emir who wore face masks, crowds of participants disregarded COVID-19 safety protocols such as social distancing and wearing of face masks among others. After the first and second wave across some countries, the World Health Organisation and some health agencies approved the use of some vaccines discovered for the pandemic. Some of the vaccines include Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, Oxford-AstraZeneca among others. But at a time many were about to heave a sigh of relief from the virulent virus, some countries particularly India records a variant and increasing cases. As Nigeria has reportedly recorded the India variant, the Presidential Steering Committee on COVID-19 issued fresh guidelines to curtail spread of the strains into the country. The committee on Monday restricted gatherings at places of worship centres and banned nightclubs. Part of the safety measures outlined by the WHO are hand washing, use of face mask and social distancing. In an interview with our correspondent, the state Commissioner for Information and Tourism, Julius Ishaya, said that the government stood to gain a lot from durbar. He said, “Durbar is a cultural exhibition of the Hausa/ Fulani. Mostly, the custodian is the emir and it is usually celebrated on important occasions like the end of Ramadan, after Sallah or if there’s a special guest to hold a special reception for. It will be exhibited to honour the person. It is part of our cultural heritage especially the Hausa/Fulani. The Emir or the traditional head controls it. It is cherished, colourful and an expression of whom the people are. Government has noted with keen interest the unification that resonates from the colourful display.” Receiving homage from kingmakers and royal households, the Emir, Alhaji Abubakar Shehu, advised the audience to end herders, farmers’ clashes. Abubakar stated that a lot would be lost if the clash persisted in the state or anywhere in the country. He said, “The raining season is here and there is a need for early planting. As you know there is the need to emphasise on the perennial farmers, herders’ conflict. There is a need for us not to take laws into our hands but to respect each other’s differences. We must also pray for our leaders across every divide. There should be peaceful co-existence among every resident of Gombe State.” Abubakar further said that no meaningful progress would occur when there was conflict. However, the governor, Muhammadu Yahaya, called on residents to make use of the lessons learnt during fasting. Yahaya said, “Eid el-fitr connotes sacrifice, selflessness, love and obedience to the tenets of Islam. I therefore enjoin us to draw enduring lessons from Ramadan and show love to one another as well as promote harmony and peaceful coexistence among our diverse people. “The same way we all remembered the less privileged and those afflicted by poverty and disease during Ramadan, I implore us to carry over these attributes beyond Ramadan.” Lamenting the security challenges in Nigeria and the calls for the country’s restructuring, Yahaya commended the relationship between Christians and Muslims, stressing that it must be protected by everyone. The governor stated, “If Nigeria doesn’t stay together in peace that would mean that the whole of Africa may not be in peace because of our number. In West Africa, one out of every three West Africans is a Nigerian; that means Nigeria is one type of West Africa and it constitutes a significant part of the African continent. “Imagine what it means to live peacefully, harmoniously and to cherish and live together to ensure that we sustain the peace and tranquillity in the country. “I seize this opportunity to urge that we maintain the essence or the spirit of Ramadan. One cannot imagine that a time would come in the history of Nigeria that someone would come over night and cover one’s face, tie one’s hands and take one somewhere to demand ransom. It was not in our culture.’’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com