Pelican Stars and Abia Angels both survived relegation, while Ibom Angels and Dreamstar Ladies went down as the 2020/21 Nigeria Women Football League play-offs came to an end at the University of Benin Sports Complex, Benin City on Tuesday. Former champions Pelican Stars, Abia Angels, Ibom Angels and DreamStar Ladies were the four teams involved in the play-offs, which were played on a round-robin basis from May 7 to 11. Heading into the final game, Calabar-based Pelican Stars needed a draw against Ibom Angels to ensure topflight safety, having drawn 1-1 with Abia Angels, before beating Dreamstar 4-2 in their first and second fixtures respectively. Pelican Stars finished tops with five points after the 0-0 stalemate against Ibom Angels in their last play-off game Tuesday. With four points from their previous two matches, a draw against Ibom Angels took them to unassailable five points which was good enough to guaranty their survival for another season. Abia Angels finished second with four points and zero goal difference to also escape relegation and remain in the NWFL Premiership, despite their 3-2 defeat to Dreamstar Ladies. Abia Angels, had same points with Dreamstar Ladies, but avoided the drop from the Premiership on goals difference. Ann Chiejine’s side opened a two-goal lead in the first half, only for Dreamstar to score three goals in an amazing second half performance to win 3-2. Dreamstar and Ibom Angels were relegated from the NWFL Premiership. Despite both sides picking up a point each in their opening games, Dreamstar Ladies’ 4-2 defeat to Pelican Stars in their second fixture of the play-offs and Ibom Angels’ 1-0 defeat to Abia Angels meant they both needed wins in their last game. While Ibom Angels failed to get the win and could only muster a point, Dreamstar’s 3-2 victory over Abia Angels was not enough to help them survive relegation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com