There was unrest in Kabusa, a community in Lokogoma area of the Federal Capital Territory, on Tuesday when some residents and policemen clashed. According to some residents, the clash occurred as a result of the death of a suspect in police custody. The residents told our correspondent that the family of the suspect had gone to visit the suspect but was told he died on Monday. Our correspondent gathered that the suspect was arrested after he alleged caused an accident on Monday. The news of his death, it was learnt, spread to the community and later resulted into a clash between the residents and policemen. Our correspondent also learnt that the policemen, while trying to disperse some of the residents, shot sporadically into the air and used tear gas canisters. Two pupils of a government-owned school in the area were said to have been killed by stray bullets while many residents were injured. A commercial motorcyclistm,who did not mention his name said, “The family of the person came to visit and discovered  he died in their custody last night. “That was where the problem started and every where was chaotic. “I saw eight police vans, they called the command for reinforcement. I cant put a figure to the number of people that died but i know two pupils of the school died. The police arrested some residents. A woman who operates a canteen in the area who simply gave her name as Grace said, “The clash was between the police and residents. They arrested somebody without the family being aware. The family latter got to know he was in police custody and had died.” One of the non-teaching staff of the school who spoke in confidence confirmed to our correspondent that two pupils died from stray bullets But the police spokesperson,  Yusuf Mariam, in a statement on Tuesday said the suspect had been beaten to a pulp by the angry mob before police rushed hin to the hospital for treatment where the doctor certified him dead. She said, “The Police Command of the Federal Capital Territory on Tuesday, 18th May, 2021 restored calm at Kabusa axis following a violent protest by some residents of the area who were agitating over a suspect who was earlier rescued from an angry mob for knocking down two (2) passengers on Monday, May 17, 2021 leaving them with fatal injuries. “The suspect who had been beaten to pulp by the angry mob as result fell ill and was rushed to the hospital for treatment were the doctor certified him dead. “Some residents of Kabusa during the violent protest attempted to overrun the Divisional Headquarters but  were resisted by a Joint Team of  Police Operatives . “Regrettably, in the bid to restore calm one young resident sustained serious injuries and is currently receiving medical attention. “ The Commissioner of Police, CP Bala Ciroma sympathises with the families of the victims and has ordered a discrete investigation into the incident. “The command implores residents to remain calm, law-abiding while reaffirming its unwavering commitment to the protection of lives and property within the FCT.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com