Coscharis Motors Plc, and its sister company, Coscharis Mobility Limited, have introduced a scheme to enable people acquire cars with a convenient payment structure. The two organisations, members of the Coscharis group, made this known at a media parley organised to unveil the new vehicle finance scheme. Speaking at the event, the Managing Director of Coscharis Mobility Limited, Christian Chigbundu, and the General Manager, Marketing and Corporate Communications, Coscharis Group, Abiona Babarinde, said that they were officially unveiling their latest offering for easy acquisition of cars. They said, “Our latest offering is to once again delight both our numerous loyal customers and potential new converts. “You will agree with us that scarcity of cash flow with both individuals and corporate entities has been a challenge towards the purchase of some necessities and needs. “Such needs clearly include the purchase of automobiles which is the solution we are offering Nigerians today with our fantastic offer of ‘pick any vehicle brand of your choice from any Coscharis Motors showrooms nationwide and leverage on installment payments courtesy of Coscharis Mobility’. “This collaboration between two sister companies within the Coscharis Group is definitely going to be a watershed within the auto sector in Nigeria going by the strong pedigree the two entities have as industry leaders in auto sales, aftersales and logistics amongst others.” They further said that Coscharis Motors had a remarkable profile as the exclusive representative of globally respected auto brands in Nigeria like the Rolls-Royce, BMW, Mini, Jaguar LandRover, Ford, Renault, and Morris Garages. They said Coscharis Mobility had the exclusive franchise representing the renowned brand, Sixt, in Nigeria. “The new offering provides that buyers identify the choice of vehicle at any of our Coscharis Motors showroom nationwide, make an initial deposit ranging from 10 per cent to 30 per cent, and then acquire the vehicle after which instalment payments begin,” they added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com