Super Falcons head coach, Randy Waldrum, overlooked striker Desire Oparanozie for the upcoming Summer Series tour of the United States of America scheduled to hold from June 10 to 16. The 27-year-old Oparanozie, who has four goals for French side Dijon, last played for the Falcons at the 2019 women World Cup in France and has been excluded from the national side after a fallout with officials over players allowances. But American Waldrum named 10 Nigeria Women’s Professional Football League players in the provisional list of 25 players for the tournament. According to the coach, two players would be dropped from the provisional squad before the team depart for the US. BBVA Stadium in Houston and newly built Q2 Stadium in Austin, owned by the newest club in the Major League Soccer, Austin FC, are the venues for the tournament. Both cities are in Texas and the clash between the Super Falcons and the US Women A team will be the first-ever football match at the state-of-the-art Q2. Falcons, who are nine-time African champions, will play four-time world champions USA, Portugal and Jamaica. In a statement released by the media department of the Nigeria Football Federation on Friday, captain Asisat Oshoala, who recently became the first African player to win the UEFA Women’s Champions League, tops the list of the invited players, with veteran defender Onome Ebi, goalkeeper Chiamaka Nnadozie, midfielder Halimatu Ayinde and forward Rasheedat Ajibade also called up for the toruney. Waldrum’s team will begin the series with a clash against Jamaica in Houston on June 10, before taking on Portugal three days later at the same venue. Their last match is against the USA squad, four-time winners of the FIFA World Cup and four-time winners of the Olympic football gold, at the Q2 Stadium on June 16. The US are the only side of the four teams in the Summer Series that will compete in the 2021 Tokyo Olympics. The match against Nigeria will mark the first time the US ever faced the Falcons outside of a world championship and it will be just the third-ever friendly against an African country, with the previous two coming against South Africa. Meanwhile, Waldrum is wary of the threat posed by the world champions. The teams last met at the Women’s World Cup in Canada in 2015, with the Americans winning 1-0. The USWNT have won all five clashes between them, with a 17-2 goals difference. “There are a lot of threats within the US team,” Waldrum told ESPN. “I could go down their roster and talk to you about each of the individual players and how important they are and the problems they can cause us. “But I think that the biggest thing is the fact that the US team are together, training together on a regular basis. They have access to their players probably more than any other country in the world, and they’ve been preparing for a long time now for the Olympics, so we are going to find a very in-form team. “That probably concerns me as much as any of the individual players. I think all of their players are capable of creating problems for your team. “But I think the most important thing is how well we can play against a team that has been sharp and organised and very focused in their training for the last six or seven months. “So, certainly this is only going to help us in our growth as a programme and I really want to thank NFF president Amaju Pinnick for making this happen. He’s been great in terms of allowing us competition after a long layoff and I’m extremely appreciative of that.” THE FULL LIST Goalkeepers: Tochukwu Oluehi (CD Pozoalbense); Chiamaka Nnadozie (Paris FC); Inyene Etim (Abia Angels FC) Defenders: Onome Ebi (Minsk FC); Gloria Ogbonna (Edo Queens FC); Osinachi Ohale (Madrid CFF); Oluwatosin Dimehin (Sunshine Queens FC); Chidinma Okeke (Madrid CFF); Abidemi Ibe (Bayelsa Queens FC); Patricia George (Sands FC); Esther Ogbonna (Sunshine Queens FC) Midfielders: Rita Chikwelu (Madrid CFF); Ngozi Okobi-Okeoghene (Eskilstuna FC); Celine Ottah (Bayelsa Queens FC); Halimatu Ayinde (Eskilstuna FC); Oyedupe Payne (Sevilla FC); Amanda Mbadi (Bayelsa Queens FC) Forwards: Asisat Oshoala (FC Barcelona); Vivian Ikechukwu (Rivers Angels FC); Uchenna Kanu (Linkopings FC); Rasheedat Ajibade (Atletico Madrid FC); Francisca Ordega (Levante FC); Gift Monday (FC Robo Queens); Joy Bokiri (Bayelsa Queens FC); Charity Adule (SD Eibars FC) Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com