As interesting as reality shows appear to be, a former Big Brother Naija contestant, Dorathy Bachor, has said that she was always conscious of herself while in the house. Bachor, who was the first runner-up in the 2020 edition of the reality show also stated that two months after she got out of the competition, she did not spend a dime of her money because she was bombarded with daily gifts. In an interview with media personality, Toke Makinwa, Bachor said, “For two months after the show, I did not use my money to buy anything. I was constantly getting gifts and I still do not understand it. I felt that because people watched me every day and there is something about me they can relate to, they wanted to show me love and give me gifts.” The social media influencer also admitted that when she first got into the reality show, she felt self-conscious. She added, “I was conscious of myself while I was in the house. I was always particular about my angles. It was not about me not being myself. It was about me being on camera for the first time, so I had to check in on every part of myself. For the first few weeks, I was really conscious but at some point, It just felt like living my life. “I am someone who always wants to be behind the scene. I was scared of public opinions and how people would see me. I visited blogs sometimes and I saw how ‘crazy’ people could be and how they always had opinions about other people, and I didn’t want that for myself. I was just that girl hustling and trying to make ends meet but it wasn’t working. I could not maintain one job and I remember that I was running two jobs. However, I got fired from one and had to leave the second one too. I also got frustrated but I knew that business was what I really wanted to do. I wanted a platform where people could see me and know what I do. That was why I went into the show (BBN).” Advising potential BBN housemates about fans wars, she said, “Firstly, they should always have an open mind. Don’t get too involved with it (fan war) because it is always going to be messy. Always try to find a balance between the fans and what you want to do. Just be smart. The people who really care about you would stick with you.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com