An unidentified youth lost his life on Monday when youths in Gauraka community of Niger State protested against incessant attacks by bandits and kidnappers in the area. The protest, which saw the irate youths blocking the Abuja-Kaduna Expressway, was reportedly caused by an early morning attack on the community during which no fewer than 15 persons were abducted. Gunmen were said to have attacked the community twice in May before Monday’s attack. The protesters made bonfires and blocked both human and vehicular movements on the expressway. Eyewitnesses told our correspondent that while trying to disperse the protesters, a policeman shot one of them. The unidentified victim was said to have died at the hospital. This, it was learnt, further angered the protesters, who razed the police station in the area. The Chairman of the Wazobia area in Gaurak , Emmauel Obanla, said, “The abduction that led to the protest happened in my area. They came around 1am, shot non-stop into the air and took away 15 persons. “I would have been kidnapped too. This is our way of saying enough is enough. “Last week, they demanded N40m for four persons. We are begging the government to come to our rescue. “ A protester, Muhammed Hahudu, said, “We have been sleeping with one eye closed in this area. We have been helpless in this community. If we are to count, about 30 people have been abducted so far in the community. They kidnapped a four-year-old girl.” A spokesperson for the Niger State Police Command, Wasiu Abiodun, said the gunmen abducted six persons, adding that policemen had been mobilised to rescue the victims. “Also, some miscreants blocked both sides of the Abuja-Kaduna Expressway, protesting the recent cases of kidnapping in the community. The miscreants later extended the protest to the Gauraka police outpost, vandalised and set it ablaze. “The protesters were dispersed through the combined efforts of the police and the military.” In a related development, two suspected kidnappers have been burnt to death at Madallah. According to sources, they were first beaten to a pulp before they were set on fire. Our correspondent gathered that another suspected kidnaper ran to the police. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com