An immigration consulting firm, Navigate to Canada, has been launched to aid Nigerians with their immigration goals. The President, Navigate Group, Mr Apostle Bible-Davids, said at the launch that Nigerians when planning to migrate to Canada, preferred to apply by themselves or use quack agents. According to him, these methods make Nigerians miss some details which could go a long way to impact the outcome of their applications. Bible-Davids said a lot people were unaware of the intricacies of Canadian immigration. “There are over 80 pathways to migrating to Canada and becoming a permanent resident but so many people would prefer to put themselves in two boxes,” he said. He said it was the duty of well-meaning immigration agencies in Nigeria to inform their clients of each pathway and advise on the best immigration options available to them. Bible-Davids, who shared insights on why he decided to set up an immigration consulting firm in Nigeria, hinted that the volatile and unpredictable situation in the country might be the reason foreign organisations were not keen on investing in the Nigerian economy. The Vice President, Rebecca Bible-Davids, stated that Navigate to Canada was set up ‘to provide a seamless immigration experience and to create a personalised immigration approach to fulfill the needs of each client’. According to her, the immigration consulting firm has a distinguished panel of immigration consultants who are registered with the Immigration Consultants of Canada Regulatory Council. She added that the firm provided free assessment forms to determine eligibility to immigrate to Canada under various immigration pathways for interested applicants. “We do this so that people wouldn’t have to invest if they do not qualify,” she noted. She also said once clients’ applications were approved, they were given the option of receiving further integration services such as where to live in Canada, through the Navigate Real Estate, a subsidiary of the Navigate Group, to help them get settled in the country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com