The Chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, Prof Mahmood Yakubu, warned that a disruption to the electoral process would undermine Nigerian democracy and destabilise the country. Yakubu gave the warning at an emergency meeting with security agencies, under the auspices of the Inter-Agency Consultative Committee on Election Security, in Abuja, on Thursday. He spoke against the backdrop of a series of attacks on INEC facilities, especially in southern Nigeria. In his welcome address during the meeting, Yakubu described the last few weeks as challenging as a result of the attacks. He said, “In the last two years, the commission has recorded a total of 41 incidents involving deliberate attacks on the commission’s facilities. “Nine of these incidents happened in 2019 and 21 cases in 2020. In the last four weeks, 11 offices of the commission were either set ablaze or vandalised. Two of these incidents were caused by Boko Haram and bandit attacks, while 10 resulted from thuggery during election and post-election violence. “However, the majority of the attacks – 29 out of 41 – were unrelated to election or electoral activities. In fact, 18 of them occurred during the #EndSARS protests in October last year, while 11 attacks were organised by ‘unknown gunmen’ and ‘hoodlums.” On material losses recorded during these incidents, he explained that a preliminary assessment revealed that, so far, ‘1,105 ballot boxes, 694 voting cubicles, 429 electric generating sets and 13 utility vehicles – Toyota Hilux pick-up vans – were lost.’’ Also speaking during the occasion, the National Security Adviser, Maj. Gen. Babagana Monguno (retd.), who promised decisive action against perpetrators of the attacks and their sponsors, described the attacks as an attempt to scuttle democracy. Monguno said, “The Office of the NSA has always remained steadfast, resolute and unrelenting in supporting the activities of INEC and all agents of government who are compelled not only by statutory means to deal with any threat that would disrupt what was started in 1999. “And we are at hand to make sure that the peoples’ will is sustained regardless of whatever happens and regardless of any individual inclination.” Those at the meeting included the service chiefs and heads of other security agencies and the Inspector-General of Police. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com