Nigerian stars were in action across Europe over the weekend. KELVIN EKERETE writes about their performances ENGLAND Kelechi Iheanacho was on target for Leicester City in their shock 4-2 defeat to Newcastle United at the King Power Stadium in the English Premier League on Friday. The 24-year-old’s 87th minute strike only proved to be a consolation for the Foxes, who had gone four goals down in 73 minutes. Iheanacho, who was shown a yellow card in the 72nd minute, has 11 goals in 22 appearances for the UEFA Champions League qualification chasers. His compatriot, Wilfred Ndidi, came off for Ayoze Perez in the 63rd minute. Super Eagles target, Eberechi Eze, scored and provided an assist in Crystal Palace’s 2-0 win over relegated Sheffield United in the EPL on Saturday. Eze set up Christian Benteke for the opening goal in the second minute, before grabbing a goal for himself with a solo effort in the 88th minute. Isaac Success scored his first goal of the season for Watford in their 2-0 win over Swansea in the English Championship on Saturday. The Nigerian netted his side’s second goal in the 87th minute to seal the win. The 25-year-old’s strike was his first since scoring the Hornets’ third goal in their 3-0 thrashing of Huddersfield Town in a Premier League game back in October 2018. ITALY Victor Osimhen scored a brace and provided an assist in Napoli’s 4-1 victory over Spezia in the Italian Serie A on Saturday. The brace is Osimhen’s first with Napoli, taking his season’s tally to 10 goals in 21 league games. The forward has scored in four consecutive matches for Gennaro Gattuso’s side and has seven goals, with two assists, since the beginning of April. FRANCE In-form striker, Terem Moffi, fired blanks in Lorient’s 4-1 loss at Lyon in the French Ligue 1. The loss threw Lorient into the deep of the relegation dogfight. Moffi, who has14 goals and three assists in 30 league games, was replaced by Ierre-Yves Hamel in the 72nd minute. Moses Simon provided an assist in Nantes’ 3-0 humbling of Samuel kalu’s Bordeaux as they kept their hopes of remaining in the topflight alive. Nantes are 18th on the log, just one point behind 17th and 16th-placed Lorient and Strasbourg and two points off 15th-place Bordeaux. Simon came off for Marcus Regis Coco in the 81st minute of the thrilling tie. His compatriot, Kalu, was not listed for the game. GERMANY Defender Kevin Akpoguma scored his first goal of the season for Hoffenheim in their 4-2 comeback win over Schalke 04 in the German Bundesliga on Saturday. Akpoguma scored the equaliser in the 52nd minute before Christoph Baumgartner and Ihlas Bebou’s goals gave them a deserved win. It is Akpoguma’s first game since returning from an injury, which kept him out of action in Hoffenheim’s last three games. NETHERLANDS Maduka Okay kept his ninth league clean sheet of the season in Sparta Rotterdam’s 3-0 spanking of Vitesse Arnhem in the Dutch Eredivisie on Friday. The Nigerian made one important save in the game to help his side claim another clean sheet. Tyrone Ebuehi also played all 90 minutes in FC Twente’s 1-1 draw against Heracles in the Eredivisie on Saturday. TURKEY Forward Anthony Nwakaeme scored his first goal in 13 league games in Trabzonspor’s 2-1 win over Antalyaspor in the Turkish Super Lig on Saturday. The one-cap Nigeria international has largely struggled for form and consistency this season, scoring just seven goals with seven assists in 32 appearances, his lowest tally since joining the club in 2018. Henry Onyekuru was in action for 63 minutes and received a yellow card in Galatasaray’s 3-1 win over Besiktas on Saturday. The Nigerian has five goals and two assists in 13 league matches for the Turkish giants. RUSSIA Tricky winger, Chidera Ejuke, was on target in CSKA Moscow’s 3-1 win over FC Krasnodar in the Russian topflight on Saturday. The Nigerian scored the hosts’ equaliser in the 32nd minute after Viktor Claesson had given the visitors the lead in the 26th minute. The goal is Ejuke’s fourth in 24 league games for the Russian giants. He was replaced by Arnor Sigurdsson in the 86th minute. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com