The Yaba College of Technology in Lagos State has described as laudable, winning of 100,000 USD Ford Foundation grant by three of its researchers/staff members. A Deputy Registrar of the college, Mr Joe Ejiofor, told the News Agency of Nigeria on Wednesday in Lagos that the fund would further support efforts to develop the institution. Ejiofor listed the three researchers who jointly wrote a proposal that won the grant to include Dr Adeleke Abiodun of the Department of Chemical Science and Dr Funmilayo Doherty of the Department of Biological Science. The other researcher is Dr Odun Orimolade of the Department of Fine Arts, according to Ejiofor. “The researchers have done well; we are proud of them for not only bringing honour to YABATECH but also for achieving something that will be of great support. “This year’s funding will support further development, art exhibition and presentations that relate to issues of advocacy for youth development, sexual harassment and gender-based violence, in addition to other planned activities,” Ejiofor said. According to the deputy registrar, who is also the institution’s Public Relations Officer, the research team also won a similar grant two years ago. “The first grant they won in 2019 was used to develop an institutional policy on sexual harassment and gender-based policy, as well as set up a museum for the college. “We have proposed to use this second grant for the Yaba Art Museum. “The Yaba Art Museum has been recognised and listed as one of the Lagos State Tourism Sites,” he said. Ejiofor said that the museum would host an archive presentation of “Living Blue” on the life and work of Chief Nike Okundaye, who was committed to youth development and gender advocacy. “It will also accommodate Yaba Cartoon Nation which will present archives of cartooning as a tool for social justice advocacy in Yaba alumni pursuits. “We sincerely thank Ford Foundation for finding our institution worthy of the grant. “It is a thing of honour to our reputable college, and we are happy to be associated with the foundation,” Ejiofor said. (NAN)