The ruling All Progressives Congress has said the meeting held by the governors on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party in Ibadan on Monday was a waste of time. The governors were led by Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal, who is the chairman of the PDP Governors’ Forum. A communique issued after the meeting asked the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to begin the process that will lead to state police. The governors also backed the resolution that banned open grazing in the South which was reached by governors of the region as a measure to curb insecurity. A part of the communique read, “To this end, the meeting called on the incompetent and rudderless APC Government to take bold and deliberate steps to de-escalate and lower tensions in our country, and concentrate on projects and policies that will enhance and promote national unity and cohesion.” Reacting, the APC in a statement signed by the National Secretary, Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, John James Akpanudoedehe, said the meeting was a political jamboree with no substance. The statement read, “Going by the communique issued by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Governors’ Forum, at the end of its meeting on Monday, it is unfortunate that the PDP governors chose to engage in misplaced name calling and abuses instead of seizing a golden opportunity provided by the meeting to offer meaningful and patriotic contributions on the review of the state of the Nation. “It is disappointing that the supposed PDP Governor’s consultative meeting turned out to be a political jamboree and its outcomes a waste of time, with no substance. “The efforts and records of the President Muhammadu Buhari government on revamping the economy, devolution of powers, upgrading the country’s security architecture, governance and electoral reforms, addressing perennial farmers/herders clashes, public sector reforms is visible and unmatched. “Nigerians will recall that President Buhari on 20th May 2020 signed an executive order on implementation of financial autonomy of state legislature and state Judiciary which the same PDP governors have rejected. “This government will continue to identify and partner with patiotic and well-meaning individuals and interests in our determined efforts to make the country better and address our challenges.”