The Vice-Chancellor of Mountain Top University, Ogun State, Prof. Elijah Ayolabi, has urged the Nigerian government to pay attention to the development and funding of  entrepreneurial studies in tertiary institutions. Ayolabi who was speaking during the 6th matriculation ceremony of 410 students of the university said that the school had over 20 vocational skills which the students could choose any skill of their choice and learn from before graduation. The matriculating students were also given a tablet each to ease their study. “Since inception, we have been giving them tablets it is not a new thing to them. We have entrepreneurial unit since getting a job is becoming difficult in Nigeria and  it is an area the government needs to look at critically. You cannot be churning out graduates without jobs. Government must provide job good environment, conducive platform for job opportunities and businesses to thrive. We have innovation entrepreneur skill and vocational skill centres. We have programme where every student must learn a musical instrument before they graduate.” He encouraged the matriculating students to be committed and dedicated to their studies, adding that they should also develop an entrepreneurial mindset. Vice-Chancellor of Landmark University, Omu-Aran, Kwara State,  Prof. Adeniyi Olayanju, who was a guest at the ceremony said, “We signed an MoU with MTU and it is more of research in agriculture because Landmark university is the only private university of agriculture. We thank the management for this unique opportunity because  the university of today is the one who can collaborate for quality education and partnership. “ He encouraged the students to build competence and  acquire skills needed for greatness. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com