Universal Insurance Plc says it has launched a personal accident cover, called ‘Keke Pass’, to provide protection for motorcylce riders. The company said this in a statement on Sunday titled ‘Universal Insurance gives hope to Keke riders with pocket-friendly insurance products’. It said the plan was designed to provide cover for personal accident to the insured rider. It said the policy also would be sold as an individual policy and as a group scheme to the riders. “The plan is a compensation plan for riders in case of an accident. The premium amount to pay depends on the type of plan you choose,” the statement said. Commenting on the product, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Mr Benedict Ujoatuonu, said, “Usually in motor insurance policies, we have centered only on taking care of the loss of the insured motor insurance vehicle on third-party liabilities. “But our Keke Pass is an innovative product that looks at the rider himself in making sure that adequate insurance is provided for the benefit of the rider in case he sustains an injury that requires medical attention while he is riding temporarily, or permanent disability as a result of the accident or in the unfortunate event of the death of the rider.” According to him, whatever happens while he is riding is fully taken care of by the cover. Ujoatuonu urged riders to embrace the product, “which is meant to help them and encourage them in ensuring that they continue to ride and generate revenue and take care of the family”. The managing director gave assurance that if anything happened, Universal Insurance would be there to ensure they got the required support. He also called on the various groups of motorists to embrace the new products so they could create benefits for their members, saying this would in turn sustain their business. With an asset base of over N11bn, authorised share capital of 16 billion units and N8bn paid-up capital, Universal Insurance is a registered organisation licensed to underwrite general insurance business. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com