The Senate has summoned the Minister of Special Duties, Senator George Akume, over the alleged failure of lottery operators to remit appropriate revenues to the coffers of the Federal Government. The Chairman, Senate Committee on Sports, Senator Obinna Ogba, said this on Monday after his panel’s engagement with the lottery operators and the regulatory agencies handling their affairs. The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, had last month asked the panel to conduct an investigation to the alleged loss of hundreds of billions of naira it should be generating from lottery proceeds annually. The directive followed an exhaustive debate on a motion moved at plenary by Senator Peter Nwaoboshi, who also called on the Senate to probe the non-execution of terms of settlement between the Nigerian Lottery Regulatory Commission and one of the lottery firms, Ghana Games in Nigeria. There was however, a mild drama at the panel sitting on Monday when the representatives of Western Lotto and those of Premier Lotto clashed at the event. Western Lotto, which said it has the franchise to run the Ghana Games in Nigeria, was established by the late Senator Buruji Kashamu while the Premier Lotto, which is challenging its claim, is believed to be owned by Chief Kessington Adebutu, popularly known as Baba Ijebu. Trouble started when the Managing Director of Western Lotto Company, Mr Olumide Adedeji, told the Senate panel and the management of the regulatory agencies that his firm had relevant franchise documents from the Ghana Lottery Commission as its main representative in Nigeria. He said the NLRC had failed to implement the terms of agreement to set up the Ghana Games Lottery Commission in Nigeria so that his firm would be earning its due commission. The Managing Director, Premier Lotto, Mr Ajibola Adebutu, asked the Senate to disregard the claims of the rival lottery agency. Adebutu said granting such request would make Western Lotto be both an operator and a regulator. Attempts by Adedeji to explain that the NLRC would be the main regulator of the proposed Ghana Games Commission was resisted by Adebutu and the situation led to a stalemate, which forced the panel to meet behind closed doors. Speaking with journalists after the session, Ogba, the Chairman of the Senate panel, said the meeting was inconclusive, adding that the committee have decided to summon the minister and the NLRC board members to resolve the contentious issue next Monday. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com