Hundreds of protesters of the Ijaw Youths Council Worldwide stormed the corporate headquarters of the Niger Delta Development Commission on Thursday with cooking pots to indicate that they would remain there until their demands were met. The youth in their hundreds arrived at the agency about 5am on Thursday following the 30-days expiration given by the IYC President, Peter Igbifa, for the Federal Government to inaugurate a substantive board for the NDDC or risk shut down of the region. Hours into the protest, which brought activities at the commission to a halt, they brought a life goat, which they slaughtered and roasted, while some started cooking yam and goat meat peppered soup as security operatives watched from a distance. The youth, who mounted two canopies at the main entrance of the commission, refused any human or vehicular movement into the building which was recently inaugurated by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd). The Assistant Secretary, IYC, Eastern Zone, Ibiso Harry, said the action was directed by the IYC President following the expiration of the deadline. “We believe that instead of an Interim Management Committee (IMC) or Sole Administrator, a properly constituted board will be better placed to address the underdevelopment in the Niger Delta region,” Harry said. On his part, the Information Officer, IYC, Eastern Zone, Jim Samson, lamented that the NDDC comprised nine states, but only Akwa Ibom was controlling its affairs. He said, “We heard that the International Oil Companies are about to pay some good money into the commission and that is why they are playing politics not to allow the states to enjoy it, but to one coffers. “The IYC is saying no to that and we are enjoining the Niger Delta people to be in our boat; let us fight this peaceful cause together.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com