The suspended managing director of Nigerian Ports Authority, Ms Hadiza Bala-Usman, has described the allegations leveled against her by a former senator, Ms Binta Garba, as spurious and unproven. Garba had accused the embattled NPA’s boss of masterminding her removal from the board of the authority. In a statement obtained by our correspondent on Monday, Bala-Usman stated that Binta had lent herself as an agent of destabilisation rather than contributing to the development of NPA. She said, “All said and done, while I concede to Senator Binta Garba’s right to whatever opinion she desires concerning our relationship when she was a board member, I remind her that those who allow themselves to be used to malign innocent people have their own days of reckoning waiting for them.” She added, “As I say with all emphasis that her allegations of resistance to inquiries on the finances of the NPA are false, I make bold to say that the authority has since 2016, openly exhibited its readiness to be held to public scrutiny by taking the following steps: “Signing of a Memorandum of Understanding with BudgIT Open Budget System Platform and Implementation of a Public Data Dissemination programme; “Publishing the tariff regime of the authority on the website for the whole world to see in line with the vision of transparency and accountability; “Conducting the statutory audit of the backlog of authority’s financial statements for 2013-2016 and presenting same for approval and submission to the appropriate quarters.” Bala-Usman also stated that as the NPA’s boss, she did engage international renowned auditing firms for the audit of NPA’s financial statements up until 2019 with full compliance with all Nigerian laws and the International Financial Reporting Standards.” She added that the 2020 financial statement was currently being audited. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com