Dear Ma, How can I get myself out of this pain? My partner broke up with me just because I say no to sex outside marriage. I love him so much I don’t want to lose him but he said he can’t continue with me any longer. Please what can I do to forget him? I’m dying in pain and crying as I’m texting you. Please help me! Grace Moses, 25 My dearest Grace, You want to choose an ordinary human being over God? Who even says he’s God’s choice for you? If I were you, I’d let him get lost if he wants and then let God appear! DO YOU KNOW WHAT YOU CARRY AS A 25-YEAR-OLD VIRGIN???  Only a man who pays your dowry should have access to your body and your spirituality! Haaa…He certainly doesn’t deserve you and he’s not worth your tears my dear- after all the pain, denial, hardship and temptation you’ve endured over time??? If I hear “peem” again on this matter…Hmm…Don’t let me spank you my darling! (Smiles). If only you knew how elated God is that you chose Him over the stupid, bad, devil and what you stand to gain from Him especially with the pain you have to endure and your tears you would have just told your so-called boyfriend- “Get thee behind me devil!” Too many women and even men all over the world have lost the supernal power of God and what should announce them in the world through ungodly sex! A lot have lost everlasting grace and glory, many have missed divinely-ordained spouses who should assist in their life’s journey and help them become what no one in their generation is. A lot have become rags spiritually because they have been fragmented and distributed their lives/destiny/soul all over the place as a result of sexual intercourse with multiple partners. It would interest you to know that a lot of your mother’s mates who were created as financial pillars and spiritual power houses are begging to feed and even looking for men to sleep with because they flung their virtues away on the altar of sex in their heyday! It may also interest you to know too that many all over the world are suffering from strange battles which made life unpleasant for them because their parents invited trouble into their lives through sex outside marriage. Many children from single parents may never be able to fulfill their glorious destinies because of inadequate minding- physically and spiritually- unless God intervenes! Too many lives have been boxed into “hell on earth” by the devil because they gave it the reins of their lives by defiling God’s temple and turning God against them! You better fall on your knees and start thanking God for the presence of the Holy Spirit in your life which won’t let you defile the temple of God! I plead with you to start making gargantuan demands from God! Tell God to open your eyes to see the wonderful wonders ahead of you. Perhaps you’d discover God just saved you from ending up with thrash (I don’t mean to be abusive) so you can have the gold He’s prepared for you! In case you don’t know because your pastor doesn’t discuss this in your church- you are a spiritual power house- God’s power house- a power generator! You are an authority in motion! You are a walking wonder, a container of virtues, a mobile altar- the light in your family, office and everywhere you go! Everything you lay your hands upon has to prosper because you carry the presence of God! May I announce to you and from experience too that you don’t have to decree a thing before it is established- you can just imagine a thing and have it come to pass! Believe me, there’s nothing you can’t acquire because you practically have the world at your feet! Let no man steal this from you! Refuse to share your life and your superb greatness with anyone but your husband! For every virgin or secondary virgin experiencing this- write today’s date down, because you choose God over the devil, unless you don’t see this- between now and the month of August, God will send you a man 10 times better than the one who won’t wait till your wedding night and  you’ll marry this year in Jesus name! I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @ Okeowo Temilolu. Are you still engaging in pre-marital sex? Each act devalues you! Your wonders are waiting to start. God is waiting for you to become a secondary virgin! You are most welcome on board the chastity campaign train and Girls Club is open for all girls and ladies. Please text your name, age, school or occupation and state of domicile to 07086620576. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com