THE Nigerian Army on Monday said troops, in the first phase of Operation Tsare Mutane in the Maradun Local Government Area of Zamfara State killed no fewer than 48 bandits. It said the leader of the bandits in the area identified as Jummo sustained gunshot wound in his leg. The Director of Public Relations, Mohammed Yerima, disclosed these in a statement titled, ‘Troops make gains in the North-West, decimated bandits’ leaders and dismantled several camps’ made available to journalists in Abuja. He added that 18 kidnap victims were rescued from the bandits’ hideout during the operation which began on March 23 and terminated on April 2. According to the statement, eight AK-47 rifles, one G3 rifle, one PKT and a Machine Gun were recovered from the bandits in the same operation. Yerima added that troops had successfully cleared many bandits’ camps in Jaya, Kadaya and Bayan Ruwa amongst several others. He also said troops, in the second phase of the operation, sacked several other bandits’ camps around Gabiya, Bozaya and Mereri and the adjoining forests in Maru LGA of Zamfara State. Yerima added that key bandits’ leaders, including Yellow Mai-Bille, Sani Meli, Dan-Katsina and Sama’ila Bakajin Bari, were also killed while the main leader known as Nasanda escaped with fatal injuries in the operation between April 19 and May 3, 2021. Equally neutralised in the operation was one Isan Heshi who was said to be an ally of a notorious bandit known as Nagala. According to Yerima, Isan Heshi was the second-in-command to Heshi before he joined Nagala following Heshi’s death in an earlier operation. The Army spokesperson said the troops recovered 4,600 rounds of ammunition, two AK-103 rifles, eight AK-47 magazines, 1,628 rounds of AK-47 ammunition, 54 rounds of PKM as well as one motorcycle and five Techno mobile phones in the second phase of the operation. Yerima said, “The troops successfully neutralised 48 bandits while the bandits’ leader in the area, Jummo, sustained gunshot wound to his leg. “The troops rescued 18 kidnap victims from the bandits’ enclave. Moreover, eight AK-47 rifles and one G3 rifle, as well as one PKT and a Machine Gun were recovered from the bandits.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com