Some workers of Federal University, Oye Ekiti on Friday protested last month’s sacking of the registrar of the institution, alleging that the action is the handiwork of the Vice-Chancellor, Prof Abayomi Fasina, which must be reversed. The placards-carrying workers, under the aegis of Concerned New Staff, who alleged that Fasina sacked Olatunbosun Odusanya as a vendetta, called on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), the National Assembly, Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu and all relevant individuals and bodies to reinstate the registrar. Among inscriptions on the placards are “The registrar must return,” “This injustice must stop: Enough is enough,” “The new sheriff must go or bow to regulations,” “Fashina must go or bow to regulation” and “Why will the registrar be sacked because he employed unemployed citizens?” A spokesperson for the protesting workers, who identified himself as Adebayo, said, “The unceremonial sack of the registrar to settle personal scores must not be allowed to stay so that many more workers will not be sacked that way. “The bursar is on the verge of being sacked as well. What have these principal officers (registrar and bursar) done to the VC to warrant the sack? We are worried as anybody can be next. The appropriate authorities must come in, investigate the matter and reinstate the registrar. “The VC cannot sack registrar like that for an offence he did not commit. The registrar said due process was followed in the employment of workers, yet he was sacked. We will not condone that in this university. The VC must go or abide by laid down rules and regulations. “President Buhari promised Nigerians 200,000 jobs, but the registrar was sacked for employing unemployed Nigerians. It is disheartening. Who knows the next person that he will sack. This case must stop in this university,” Adebayo said. FUOYE Governing Council, which on April 20 suspended Odusanya on allegation of misconduct and irregularities in the appointment of workers, sacked the embattled principal officer on April 27 following report of the Council Disciplinary Committee. Although the VC had exonerated himself of responsibility in the sack which he said was carried out by the Council, the registrar, in a petition to the Senate titled, ‘Petition against the university Governing council and the VC for wrongful termination of appointment without due process for offence not committed,’ insisted that Abayomi was behind his predicament. Odusanya had accused the VC of “using Governing Council to wrongfully terminate the appointment of the registrar without due process for the offence not committed at the emergency council meeting held on Tuesday, April 27.” He said he (registrar) did not breach any guideline in the appointment of workers.