Former Super Eagles winger Tijani Babangida has alleged that Clemens Westerhof dropped him from the 1994 Africa Cup of Nations and US ‘94 World Cup after he rejected the Dutchman’s offer to manage him, The PUNCH reports. Babangida, who was capped 40 times by Nigeria, added that he was in rich vein of form for his club Roda JC and shouldn’t have been left out of the squad, insisting that his pace and trickery would have helped the Eagles at their first mundial. The 47-year-old was the highest scoring winger in Europe prior to 1994 with11 goals in 29 Eredivisie games for Roda. “I was too good to be left out of the squads to the 1994 Africa Cup of Nations and the World Cup in the US,” Babangida said during a media parley. “I had issues with the coach (Westerhof), who wanted to manage me and I disagreed. “With my pace then I would have helped the Eagles. It was very painful to be left out of the team to those tournaments in 1994 because I knew I deserved to be in that team. “When Emmanuel Amuneke and Daniel Amokachi were injured against Italy, my pace would have been helpful to the team if I was included.” But Babangida’s teammates Austin Okocha and Emmanuel Amuneke joked that the former Ajax winger was not good enough to make the star-studded 1994 squads. “We quite knew his (Babangida) position at that time but some of us like me and Sunday (Oliseh) who had no godfathers knew we had to play extremely well to make the final squad,” Okocha said. “Obviously, he had the talent to play in the team then but that’s my opinion not the coach’s.” Amuneke said,” Who would have been dropped for you TJ? I feel any player who was in that team deserved his place but that never meant you didn’t earn a place by virtue of your talent.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com