Super Eagles head coach, Gernot Rohr, says he expects to see a different Cameroonian squad from the side that lost to Nigeria during the 2018 World Cup qualifiers, when both continental arch-rivals clash in Austria for an international friendly at the Weiner Neustadt Stadium in Vienna, Austria on June 4. Since taking over the Eagles’ job in 2016, the Franco-German had never lost to the five-time African champions on three occasions: two wins and one draw. Rohr led Eagles to a 4-0 victory in Uyo before a scoreless draw in Yaounde during the Russia 2018 qualifiers, before masterminding the Eagles to a 3-2 victory over the Indomitable Lions in the Round of 16 at the 2019 AFCON in Alexandria, Egypt. Speaking ahead of the clash, Rohr said he hoped to see a different side to the one that the Eagles defeated at the AFCON. “This friendly against Cameroon is an interesting game because we are going to have some of the new players, since some of our regular players will not be available due to injuries, and it is not easy to have everybody at this period because it is also the offseason period,” Rohr told CAFOnline.com. “It is a big test game and an opportunity to test the new players. “Of course, we are not going to play for the result against Cameroon in Austria, but it’s an opportunity to see our boys and see something different with our systems against a very good team that will host the next AFCON. “It is true that we beat them in the Russia 2018 World Cup qualifiers and at the last AFCON in a very interesting game of the Round of 16, but this friendly is going to be different. I’ve seen that they have a list of 28 players, but I’m hopeful all our players listed would be able to come for the match. I hope we are going to have a good weather in Vienna for this match,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com