AXA Mansard says it has launched a ‘Malaria insurance plan’ in line with its purpose to care for human progress by protecting what matters to people’s health. A statement on Saturday said the plan was launched on World Malaria Day, a day that highlighted the global efforts to control malaria and celebrate the gains that had been made. The statement said, “Since 2000, the world has made historic progress against malaria, saving millions of lives. However, half of the world still lives at risk from this preventable, treatable disease, which costs a child’s life every two minutes. “In response to the urgent need of a zero malaria world, AXA Mansard, a socially responsible organisation, has designed an affordable product that provides the following covers: Malaria treatment, outpatient care, general and specialist consultation, health tips on how to recover and more with as low as N450 only.” Speaking at the product launch, the Chief Operating Officer of the company, AXA Mansard Health, Dr Chidi Onyedika, said, “One of the lessons 2020 left us with is that healthcare will always be the topmost priority to every individual, irrespective of the age, colour or gender. “We must therefore constantly strive to create sustainable and innovative solutions to cater for people’s health care needs at every point in time. Therefore, we launched this plan as part of our contribution to controlling the effect of malaria in the country.” He said through its USSD code, people could conveniently enroll for affordable and robust health insurance plans from AXA Mansard, with access to over 1,000 hospitals nationwide for quality healthcare services. He added that the fight against malaria was not for individuals alone, adding that everyone must join forces to achieve a malaria-free world. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com