The kidnap of Amos Ogbonnaya, of a former Coordinator of Anuagata Development Centre, in the Ohaozara Local Government Area of Ebonyi State by hoodlums, on Thursday evening, has continued to generate mixed reactions from various segments of the state. The PUNCH reports that the development has degenerated into some sort of accusations and counter-accusations from the Peoples Democratic Party, the All Progressives Congress and and other politicians. The victim, a key leader of the G64 group, had appeared on television programme last week and kicked against the policies of Governor Dave Umahi. He was said to have been abducted on his way back from a Parents Teachers Association meeting, that took place at Government College, Okposi, in Ohaozara council area of the state. The PDP, in a statement, accused the State Government and the Commissioner of Police in the state, CP Aliyu Garba, of complicity in the matter. “If Amos is not released, then we all know that the need for self-defence has become eminent and the Commissioner of Police is incapable of protecting lives and properties of Ebonyi people. Only his removal can restore confidence in the police as he has become a politician,” the PDP said. But in a reaction, the Commissioner for Information, Orji Uchenna Orji, described the kidnap saga as the opposition party’s “Grand design by his syndicate of political howlers to cause tension in the state and incite public hatred on a government they hold in a very high esteem”. According to the commissioner, “We have it on good authority that millions of naira have been voted to these conscienceless fellows to hatch and execute unprintable atrocities and to keep social media and other media platforms busy with unthinkable fabrications against the State Government, with a view to attacking the hard earned reputation of our dear Governor and the testimonials of his great accomplishments. “We therefore dissociate and distance ourselves as Government from the thoughts and claims of these PDP officials, who for pecuniary and political reasons have covenanted with the opposition forces to unleash falsehood on the State Government.” When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, Loveth Odah, called on the family of the victim to make useful information available to the Police, concerning the abduction. “The Police have always been accused and we are not worried about that; the most important thing is for the family of the victim to do needful by providing useful information to the police, for possible rescuing of the victim and apprehension of the perpetrators,” Odah said.