The Federal Government has shut down bars, night clubs and recreational centres in a bid to curb the spread of coronavirus in the country. The government also reintroduced COVID-19 restrictions across all 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory. The Head of Technical Secretariat of the Presidential Steering Committee on COVID-19, Dr Mukhtar Mohammed, said the new directive takes effect by midnight of Tuesday. He said the bars and nightclubs should remain closed until further notice. While stating that there was no limitation to intra-state travel, he advised that only essential international travels should be embarked upon with all existing protocols strictly adhered to. Mohammed said, “Further to these recommendations and effective from 0001hours of Tuesday, May 11, 2021, this Phase IV of the phased restriction of movement shall come into effect. “We shall maintain restrictions on mass gatherings outside work settings with a maximum number of 50 people in an enclosed space. “Approved gatherings must be held with physical distancing measures and other non-pharmaceutical interventions in place. Enforcement of a mandatory requirement of a seven-day quarantine for all international passengers arriving from foreign destinations while institutional quarantine for international passengers arriving from the three countries of India, Brazil and Turkey. “Enforced temperature checks and no mask, no entry policy in all public settings; workplace buildings, businesses and places of worship etc. Access to Government and commercial premises should be denied to persons without facemasks. “The nationwide curfew will be imposed tonight at midnight and it will run through till 4am. No formal restrictions on movement within the country even as citizens are encouraged to refrain from non-essential movements and comply with all non-pharmaceutical interventions and guidelines. “People who are above 60 and or with comorbidities are encouraged to stay at home. Only essential international travels are encouraged.”