The Theatre Arts and Motion Pictures Practitioners Association of Nigeria, TAMPAN, has suspended actors ― Nkechi Blessing Sunday and Kehinde Adams aka Lege ― for fighting dirty on social media. In the last few weeks, both actors have been at each other’s throats over the recent arrest of their colleague, Baba Ijesha, who was accused of sexually assaulting a minor. In a statement signed by actor, Damola Olatunji, which was posted via the Association’s Instagram page, TAMPAN asked film directors who are members of its association to desist from working with both actors with immediate effect until their suspension is lifted. The statement read in part, “The attention of the National Body of TAMPAN (Theatre Arts and Motion Pictures Practitioners Association of Nigeria) has been drawn to the unruly acts, exchange of detrimental verbal utterances, and other acts that are causing disrespect to the image of the association and our noble profession in general. “All Guilds under TAMPAN have been directed to henceforth desist from having professional dealings with Sunday Nkechi Blessing and Mr Adams Kehinde (Lege) until further notice. In accordance with the directive from our parent body, Theatre Arts and Motion Picture Practitioners Association of Nigeria, concerning the show of shame currently ongoing between the two practitioners, Sunday Nkechi Blessing and Mr Adams Kehinde on social media, creating a bad image for our noble profession, punitive order becomes imperative to redeem our battered image.” TAMPAN further warned that any filmmaker that went contrary to the directive would also be punished for breaking the law. “In light of the above, it has been decreed that no director from this guild (TAMPAN Guild of Directors) should engage the services of the two actors in whatever guise. To go contrary to this directive is tantamount to running afoul of the law of the parent body, subject to further punitive measures against the lawbreaker! Hope this directive will be wholesomely enforced to the letter,” the statement added.