How did you start as a footballer? I thank God for my great career, I started football on the streets, before joining Golden Boot Soccer Academy. From there I was loaned to JUTH FC, and then to VVV Venlo, to CSKA Moscow, to Leicester City and then back to CSKA Moscow, then Leicester again. From Leicester to Saudi Arabia(Al Nassr), now, I am in Kano Pillars. I really enjoyed my career from day one. With the kind of career that has seen you play in Saudi Arabia and countries like Russia and The Netherlands, what are the cultural and language challenges you faced abroad? My first time in Europe was to Holland, when I was 18. I signed when I was 17 but couldn’t travel. But the first challenge I faced when I got there was the weather, but there was nothing I could do, I had to endure until I adapted to it. Do you remember how many sweaters you wore to sleep then? I had to wear between four to five sweaters to sleep, it was not that easy. What about the food? Definitely, you had spaghetti and rice, but the only thing difficult was just the weather. Whenever you got back to Nigeria, what was the local food you always loved to eat? Whenever I go back, for one week I don’t eat rice or spaghetti, I only eat pounded yam and semovita. What was the motivation behind coming back to play for Kano Pillars? The day I announced I was signing for Kano Pillars till the end of the season, I saw a lot of comments from people saying my career was over, while others said it was a good step to promote the league. But I am the one with the final say and I don’t have to wait for people who say I am too young to come back to Nigeria, I started here in Nigeria, why is it that I can’t come back here to play? It is not anything about money, I thank God for what I have, but it was because of football and definitely, I have to give back to my country what I have achieved back there in Europe. Is there any impact your signing has had on the Nigerian league? Definitely, a lot of people now go to the app to watch me play for Kano Pillars, so that’s what I am planning to bring back to our league. I had to think twice before coming back, because I knew a lot of people would come back to watch football in Nigeria with me playing. So that made me think coming back to Nigeria was a very big moment for me. Is your plan to play only this season with Pillars or will you come back again to Pillars when you are done playing in Europe? Shehu Abdullahi and I have this plan that whenever we want to stop football, we would come back to Nigeria and play one season, because we have to give back to the fans. We love football a lot in Nigeria, but nowadays, what you see people talk about is Chelsea, Barcelona and Real Madrid. So, we want that love for African and Nigerian football, for the fans to be speaking about Enyimba, Kano Pillars, Akwa United, Kwara United and other teams. For me, I would love it. Even when I was in Europe, I would always go to the Nigerian league and check it out every week. From the 2009/10 season when you emerged the highest goal scorer in the Nigerian league, many other strikers have also won the Golden Boot, but those players don’t get to play in the big leagues and are usually one season wonders. What did you do differently? The only thing I will say is that we need to continue to be disciplined. We know that footballers like enjoyment, but when it comes to the job, you have to respect it. When it’s time for enjoyment, you do that and when it comes to your job, you do the same. But when you combine both, you won’t be able to give yourself enough rest after the game to keep on doing what you know how to do. It’s your 11th year as a Super Eagles player. Do you have plans to have a documentary of your footballing career? I will definitely do that to let a lot of Nigerians know about me even though I didn’t start with the Super Eagles directly. I went to the U-20 when I was in Holland. I had to come back and play for the U-20 and U-23 after making my Eagles debut. So, I have paid my dues for the country and there is a time I will stop playing with the Eagles. We have a lot of boys now and they are doing great week-in-week-out in Europe, so definitely, I will stop playing not too long from now. Are you eyeing the 101 appearances of Joseph Yobo and Vincent Enyeama? Yes, I have that target and I definitely want to achieve it by God’s grace. I think Enyeama has 101 caps, the same as Yobo. Now, I have made 96 appearances for the Super Eagles and we have a couple of games coming up. I think by God’s grace, without injuries, I am going to achieve that record and even break it. You have a good track of injury records. What has been the magic? I give myself a lot of rest whenever because we train a lot and travel a lot. And when we come back from games we hardly rest; it’s going to tell on your body. You have to get a perfect rest, eat good food. Last year was very tough for me in Saudi Arabia because that was my second injury in my career where I spent about two and half months on the sidelines. Of my football career so far that was the longest injury that I ever had. Who influenced your football career? I was with Kano Pillars when I started with the Super Eagles and then there were some big boys in the national team. The number one thing they saw in me was my speed. I remembered during training in Calabar, I heard Taye Taiwo and Danny Shittu saying, ‘Oh boy, this guy dey run o’ (Oh boy, this guy can run). They inspired me a lot and they gave me the confidence that I could do it. They both said I was going to be someone in the near future and whenever we had a game Enyeama, Obafemi Martins and Yobo always give me confidence. I was Yobo’s roommate in Portugal before the 2013 Nations Cup, which we won in South Africa and he told me that one day I was going to be the captain of the Super Eagles. I told him I wasn’t sure if I could be the captain. During our first friendly game in Austria (ahead of the 2018 World Cup), I reminded him of what he said about becoming the captain of the team and I had to appreciate him very well because he had been a big motivation for me and also helped me in my career. The 2022 World Cup qualifiers are coming up. What are your thoughts on these games? During our last two AFCON qualifiers against Lesotho and Benin Republic, I spoke with the boys and said we needed to set our target. What do we want to achieve at the tournament? Is it just to qualify and go there or we want to go and win? We went to Benin and we won, which was very good for us and after the game against Lesotho I said we had qualified and our target now was the Nations Cup. At the last tournament in Egypt, we finished third and now we have a lot of experience in the team, we are going to Cameroon and I believe we will do something big and not just to go there, but to bring the trophy back home. Why do they call you The Governor? That name came from Wilfred Ndidi before the World Cup in Russia, when he saw some pictures of me sharing foodstuffs. He asked if I was a politician. I said it was something that we should do. Since then he started calling me The Governor and now everybody calls me the name.