The police in Ekiti State have arrested a security guard, Abbar Wasiri, and another man, Timileyin Aribisala, for allegedly burgling about three houses, including where Wasiri was employed to guard in the Adebayo area of Ado Ekiti. The suspects, who were alleged to have broken into the houses on Saturday, May 8, 2021, were said to have stolen N210,000 and other valuables. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Sunday Abutu, said the suspects were trailed and arrested by operatives of the Rapid Response Squad following a report by a lawyer, Ayo Oguntuase, on Sunday that his office was burgled. Abutu, in a statement titled: ‘Ekiti RRS nabs serial burglars’, stated, “Oguntuase came to the RRS office in Ado Ekiti and reported that some unknown persons burgled his office and two other houses at night in the Adebayo area of Ado Ekiti on May 8, 2021, and made away with N210,000, two complete sets of computer systems and many other items. “Upon the receipt of the information, the RRS operatives immediately moved into action and arrested the two suspects based on the intelligence gathered. “During interrogation, the suspects confessed to the crime and led the operatives to their houses, where some items were recovered.” According to him, the recovered items include 265 pieces of children and adult clothes, 14 pairs of children and adult canvas shoes, two complete sets of computer systems, one ceiling fan and two law report books. The police spokesperson added, “Further investigation revealed that one of the suspects, Abbar Wasiri, is one of the security guards employed to guard one of the burgled houses. “Investigation is ongoing. As soon as it is concluded, the suspects shall be charged. “The Ekiti State Commissioner of Police, Tunde Mobayo, calls on everyone to be security conscious and promptly report strange and suspicious persons found in their environs to the police.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com