The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd;) former Vice-President Atiku Abubakar; Taraba State Governor, Darius Ishaku; and the Taraba State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party, on Friday, expressed grief over the death of a former Minister of Women Affairs, Aisha Alhassan, who died in Cairo, Egypt, aged 61. They spoke in separate statements extolling the virtues of the deceased, who served as a senator and was a former Taraba State governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress. Buhari, in a statement titled, ‘President Buhari Mourns Former Minister of Women Affairs, Aisha Jummai Alhassan,’ signed by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, said he was deeply saddened by Alhassan’s death. Shehu said the Nigerian Mission in Cairo announced the passing of the former minister. He quoted Buhari as saying, “The demise of the notable politician, Aisha Jummai Alhassan, has left many saddened. Both in office and out of office, her concern for the education of the girl child, especially those of the Government Girls Secondary School, Chibok, who were abducted by Boko Haram terrorists, shone through. “Her death is a huge loss not only to the female gender activist community but to the country as a whole. Our condolences to her family, friends, National Assembly and government and people of Taraba State.” Speaking in a similar vein, Atiku said with Alhassan’s death, Nigeria had lost ‘yet another impactful female politician in our recent memory.’ In a statement titled, ‘Atiku mourns Aisha Alhassan,’ signed by his media adviser, Paul Ibe, Atiku said, “Aisha Alhassan was a reliable political ally and a foot soldier who was passionate about her political convictions. “I can’t forget her dedication and how she stood by me through thick and thin in the course of my political career. I really have lost a sister and loyalist.” Similarly, Ishaku, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Bala Dan-Abu, expressed shock over Alhassan’s death. He said, “Senator Aisha was an asset and her death has robbed Taraba State and Nigeria of the benefits of her wealth of experience in politics. “As a Minister of Women Affairs, Senator Aisha contributed immensely towards the social and political emancipation of women. Her death has left a vacuum that will be difficult to fill.” Also mourning, the Taraba State PDP chapter said Nigeria had lost a political icon. In a statement signed by the Director of Media and Publicity of the party in the state, Andeta’rang Irammae, the PDP said, “Nigeria has lost a political icon and strong woman who paid her dues in the development of Nigeria.” Alhassan reportedly died after a protracted illness. She was in December 2020 rushed to the Federal Medical Centre, Yola, Adamawa State capital, for an undisclosed ailment. She was alleged to have gone into a coma but was later revived. Since then, she was not seen in public until her death on Friday. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com