It is no longer news that Lagos State will experience an approximate intensive rainfall of between 238 and 261 days in 2021 while the maximum annual rainfall amount is predicted at 1,747 mm. It is also a fact that with Lagos being a coastal city that is 30 per cent under water, such rainfall pattern prediction will have very big impact. On a yearly basis, the Federal Ministry of Aviation through the collation of predictions and studies by the Nigeria Meteorological Services reels out statistics for all the states and local governments in the federation. The predictions are supposed to be a wake-up call to all the sub-national governments to put measures in place to ensure that when indeed the rainfall patterns predicted come to pass, they do not leave in their trail ‘sorrow, tears and blood’ through the attendant loss of lives, property and dislocation of so many families and lives. The 2021 prediction for Lagos State which was reeled out by the helmsman at the Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources, Tunji Bello, in April also included warnings and measures which government will take and which residents too are expected to take to safeguard their lives and property. The 2021 rainfall pattern prediction by the Lagos State Government was not the first and will not be the last. While the present administration in Lagos State under the able leadership of Mr Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has ensured that it committed huge resources to construction of new channels, cleaning, dredging and maintenance of existing ones, the residents have not fulfilled their own part of the bargain. Among the warnings are a refrain from dumping refuse in drainage channels and canals which are supposed to take storm water to the proper locations. The refuse end up stopping the water especially after rainfalls from moving and flowing freely. Whenever the natural course is altered or distorted, the water spews onto the streets and roads causing flooding. Also included is the warning to all residents who reside in low lying areas such as Agiliti, Agboyi, Itowolo and Ajegunle, which are prone to flooding and in some instances, mudslides, to move upland during the rainy season. The reason for this advisory is not far-fetched. Some torrential rainfall occurs in the wee hours when many are asleep. Only a very few people would have help come their way if they are trapped by such rainfall which will not only submerge such properties but may in addition also attract dangerous reptiles with the tide, leading to loss of lives and complete destruction of buildings. It also formed part of the advisory that no form of structures or shanties should be erected on drainage setbacks and alignments. When structures are erected on the setbacks, they not only make it practically impossible for swamp buggies and tipping trucks that are deployed to cleared silt and debris removed from drains to cart them away. In addition, every drainage channel is supposed to have at least 10 meters as its setback because in some cases of the tidal lock up of the lagoon or ocean, a flow back does occur on channels and may be injurious to human habitation close to such points. Despite massive sensitisation campaigns on the dangers of residents emptying their refuse into the drains or canals, many recalcitrant residents would rather engage in this act instead of patronising registered PSP operators. Even for some who reluctantly patronise PSP operators, many PSP have been run out of business because tenements don’t pay for the services. To some others, they are more convenient with patronising the outlawed cart pushers. Some other residents would rather use the cover of nightfall to burn their refuse not minding the effect on the atmosphere. The state has a task force on waste policing in place that is always apprehending defaulters and charging them to court. The question is, how many residents will be apprehended and jailed? Before we know it, our correctional centres will be bursting at the seams with environmental sanitation offenders. In the course of enforcing the law, many of the operatives have been brutalised and maimed by these residents who see no big deal in dumping their refuse in the drainage channels. Another set of people who contribute to not making the yearly rainfall predictions impactful are people who erect structures/shanties at all kinds of places. Lagos with a population of over 20 million residents is already having its hands full with an overstretch of its social facilities. Many more are daily trooping into the state without anywhere to lay their heads. Such people convert any form of open space, either setbacks or drainage alignments, into makeshift homes. Despite the fact that such structures are often not fit for human habitation, they still live there. Such characters often resort to violence when attempts are made to forcefully remove such structures. The usual excuse by them and their patrons is that: “You people must have a human face. Where do you want them to relocate to? Things are hard in the country”. At the end of the day, the government commits a lot of resources into deploying its officials and security agencies who must give security back up for it to successfully remove squatters who are illegally occupying shanties on public spaces. The state government’s matter is often not helped by emergency civil society activists who see no wrongdoing in a man who erected an illegal structure on a drainage channel which is against the collective benefit of the majority but would rather be tasking the government to provide an alternative accommodation to him because he has nowhere to go and is a Nigerian. For some people, they would make no enquiries about the area they intend to purchase a plot of land or rent a house. It is only after the commencement of rainfall that excuses fly around that he was never aware that the area is a flood prone area. With the coastal nature of Lagos, some areas such as Owode, Ketu, Agiliti and Ajegunle are naturally low lying areas. The topography of such areas makes it a retention point for flood water which most of the time makes such places and locations uninhabitable. However, with the advent of rainfall for each year, residents living in such areas are often advised to move to higher grounds because it is about preservation of life and property. What is however intriguing about most residents living in low lying areas is that despite government’s efforts to convince them about the dangers of where they have chosen to reside. Many have refused to budge. Even at the point of loss of lives, those who had moved earlier would rather return to the same location, waiting for another year’s rainfall brouhaha. One wonders why a tenant would rather renew his tenancy in a building that is yearly ravaged by flood, destroying his property and putting his life at risk instead of saving money and looking for an alternative accommodation in a safe and secure location. The same applies to property owners who rather than seek means of getting alternative accommodation in a dry area would rather stay put until the vagaries of yearly rainfall and flooding render the building structurally weak and unfit for human habitation. The annual rainfall pattern prediction can only be impactful when all residents agree that by the coastal nature of Lagos, only a single hand cannot clap successfully and it would take collaboration and support of all government mitigation efforts on flooding for the state to remain safe and flood free for all residents year round. Adeshina is Director (Public Affairs), Lagos State Ministry of the Environment and Water Resources, Alausa. *Fola Ojo’s column returns next week Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com