Pig farming is a profitable business, and that’s exactly what Farmpower wants everyone to realize. The investment platform that caters to Agricultural needs is on a mission to revolutionize Agriculture in the country, as well as the continent. There is a huge customer base for pork. The clientele includes the Chinese, five-star hotels and restaurants, Shoprite, amongst others. Pig farming is a business that’s ever-increasing in demand, such that in Oke-Aro, the biggest pig production farm in Nigeria, more than 5000 (fattened) pigs are sold daily. Pig farming is one of the easiest Agricultural businesses that you can venture into in Nigeria. Farmpower prepares piglets for the market by fattening them up with the necessary nutrients. Every piglet on the farm is insured under Leadway Assurance. Your investment fund is completely safe regardless of the situation. In Oke-Aro, Ogun State, where Farmpower operates, there are plans in place to reduce any form of risk in the farm and these include periodic vaccination, keeping pig pens clean and conducive, and routine maintenance. Proficient veterinarians are always available to administer any required treatment. In 2020, there was an outbreak of swine flu in Oke-Aro which led to the deaths of numerous pigs. It is a given that swine flu surfaces every 10 years, and as such, the entire pig center has been fumigated against diseases of any kind. Should swine flu ever wreak havoc unexpectedly, investments are safe as they are protected by insurance. This simply makes Farmpower the safest investment platform to use. Agriculture is the future of Nigeria, so why don’t you invest in your future? By investing N250,000 (per slot), you can earn 40% ROI in the space of 12 months. Every 3 months, you receive a 10% interest, which is paid four times. Farmpower is into rice trading; buying in large quantities from local farmers, then processing the rice by removing stones, and packing in bags for sale. With an investment of N50,000 (per slot), you can earn 60% ROI in 12 months. You receive 20% interest every 4 months. For more information and inquiries, visit their website: www.farmpowernigeria.com
Or contact any of their phone lines:
Phone: 07039603992, 07039304269, 09081012746
Email: info@farmpowerng.com