The Federal Government on Monday declared that insecurity was a major crisis in the maritime sector, describing it as more complex than the world knows. It also announced that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), would inaugurate Nigeria’s maritime security project in June. Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, announced this in Abuja and stated that the security project would be inaugurated in Lagos, as it would involve the Navy, police, army and State Security Service. The minister spoke when the Belgium Ambassador to Nigeria, Daniel Bertrand, paid him a courtesy visit in Abuja. Amaechi was quoted in a statement issued by his ministry’s Assistant Director, Press and Public Relations, Anastasia Ogbonna, as saying, “The crisis in the maritime sector is insecurity and it is more complex than the world knows.” The minister, however, told his guests that the Federal Government had come up with a solution that was ready for take-off. He said if the solution turned out successful, in the near future there would be improvement in maritime security and other countries in the Gulf of the Guinea could adopt it. Amaechi said, “Seventy-five per cent or 65 per cent of crimes come from our water and if we are able to eliminate them, we will be making a lot of progress. “If you are in the air, you see what is happening in the water and when you are inside the water, you will be able to respond. “The helicopter has capacity to drop in the naval men when they see anything suspicious.” Amaechi said he would be glad to partner and share information with anyone who wants information for the purpose of securing the Gulf of the Guinea. On his part, the Belgium ambassador to Nigeria said his team had observed with keen interest the happenings in the Gulf of Guinea and would like to support the implementation of the maritime security project in the Gulf of Guinea. Bertrand also presented a letter to the minister requesting that the Federal Government should support the Belgium candidate for a key position at the International Maritime Organisation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com