Recently, someone sent a picture of an anti-cancer tea pack made by the Department of Pharmacognosy, University of Lagos, to me. I was able to speak with Dr.  Mutiat Ibrahim of the department. She sent me pictures of the other products they have. I was so excited when I saw honey among the pictures. I have not had honey in a long time because the bee keeper that supplies me has not been able to do so. Seeing this one that has been tested in the laboratory for authentication makes me happy.  I believe in products like this because a lot of research has been done on them. They are not the kind that charlatans produce. Today, I will be discussing securidaca longipedunculata commonly called Violet tree. The plant has a reputation of a broad spectrum of medicinal, pharmacological and therapeutic properties. It is reported that almost all parts of the plant are used by man for different ailments. It belongs to the family Polygalaceae. It is an indigenous medicinal plant in Africa and has an important place in traditional medicine as well as modern medicine. It is used for treating sexually transmitted infections, hernias, coughs, fever, ascariasis, constipation, headaches, rheumatism, stomach ache, tuberculosis, pain, epilepsy, pneumonia, skin infections. It is locally known as Uwar magunguna in Hausa, literally meaning “the mother of all drugs,” as tribute to its very numerous medicinal uses. In Igbo, It is “ezeogwu” meaning “king of medicines” which is suggestive of its high therapeutic potency in disease conditions especially in inflammatory disorders where it enjoys popular use. It is Ipeta in Yoruba. The root of this plant is traditionally used to manage fungal infections, fever, headaches, cancer, rheumatism, tuberculosis, diabetes, venereal diseases, syphilis, sexual impotence, toothache, pains, epilepsy, convulsions, constipation, pneumonia, backache, blood purification, sexually transmitted infections, skin infections and also used as an aphrodisiac. The decoction of the root is used to hasten labour. The leaves are locally used to treat wounds, epilepsy, headaches, stomach ache, infertility, snakebite, toothache, cancer, skin infections, dislocated jaw, treating wounds, sores, cough, venereal diseases, snake bite, tuberculosis, bilharziasis and convulsion in children. It is used for contraceptive purposes, as a purgative and to expel placentas. The  stem bark is traditionally used to treat epilepsy, stomachache,  venereal diseases, skin diseases,  dysentery,  malaria,  typhoid,  inflammation,  chest complaints,  constipation, viral infections, snake  bites and infertility. The whole plant is used to wash the mouth and treat infections such as oral candidiasis. It treats excessive coughing and other opportunistic infections associated with Human Immunodeficiency Virus. The roots or pounded seeds can be used as soap and bleaching items. A fibre obtained from the inner bark can be used like cotton to weave a coarse cloth, fishing nets and baskets. The plant is also used for hut construction, brooms, poles etc. The leaf and root bark extracts were reported to have antibacterial and antifungal activities. Also, the stem bark extract of this important plant is active against clinical bacterial isolates of Escherichia coli, Salmonella typhi, Staphylococcus  aureus, Shigella dysenteriae,  Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Klebsiella pneumonia. In fact, a study supported the use of the stem bark in the management of bacterial diseases and as such could serve as a potential source of antibacterial drugs. The stem bark contains more antibacterial agents than other parts. The root bark and leaf extracts were also reported to have antioxidants. The methanol root bark extracts showed good anti-inflammatory activity. The roots and bark are taken orally either powdered or as infusions for treating diseases. Usually, a poultice of the root bark of this plant is applied topically to inflamed joints in herbal treatment of inflammation and rheumatic disorders. The powdered roots or wood scrapings are used to treat headaches by rubbing them on the forehead, while infusions from the roots are used to wash tropical ulcers. The root is also chewed as a stimulant. It is the most popular of all the traditional medicinal plants in South Africa and is used for almost every conceivable ailment. The root is used as a taenifuge (an agent that expels tapeworms) and anti-helminthic( antihelminthics are a group of antiparasitic drugs that expel parasitic worms) in French Guinea and Senegal. The plant has been employed in the treatment of rheumatic conditions, convulsions, fevers, headache and various other inflammatory conditions in West Africa. In northern Nigeria, it is used traditionally in the treatment of cancers by most traditional medicine practitioners in the region. The aqueous extract of the root is used as psychopharmacological agents. In the Nsukka community of Enugu State, a poultice of the root bark of S. longipedunculata is popularly used for the treatment of rheumatic conditions and inflammation. In Limpopo (South Africa) the VhaVenda people use the roots for mental disorders and as protection against children’s illness during breastfeeding. They (vhaVenda people) also mix the powdered root with mageu (maize or sorghum beverage) and it is given to a man to drink if he is sexually weak. In Iringa, (a city in Tanzania), it is used for the management of some manifestations of non-insulin dependent diabetes. A decoction of the dried bark is used to treat bacterial infection and inflammations, insanity and epilepsy. The leaves are used for treating wounds, sores, cough, venereal diseases, snake bite and as a purgative. It is used to treat tuberculosis. Oral administration of a decoction of the root has been shown to produce a sedative effect. The cooked leaves are said to be an effective treatment for snake bites. This tree is also commonly used as pesticide against beetles in stored grains. This technique can be helpful for small-scale subsistence farmers in Africa who are not able to purchase synthetic pesticides. The biological activities of the plant include anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, antiparasitic, histopathological, antimicrobial, antidiabetic, antiplasmodial, antitrypanosomal, anticonvulsant, enzyme inhibition, insecticidal, molluscicidal and  pesticidal activities. The plant is rich in essential oils. Different classes  of bioactive  compounds which  include phenolic  acids, xanthones, glycosides,  saponins,  steroids, fatty  acids,  volatile oils,  flavonoids, alkaloids  and  sucrose  derivatives were isolated from different parts of Securidaca longipedunculata. A study titled, “Ethanol Extract of Securidaca longipedunculata Induces Apoptosis in Brain Tumor (U87) Cells,’’ by Ngulde et al, was aimed at evaluating the anticancer activity of the plant extract. The result in this work supported the folkloric use as the ethanol extract inhibited proliferation of U87 cell line. In another study titled, “Anti-inflammatory activity of extracts of root bark of securidaca longipedunculata fres (polygalaceae),’’ by Okoli et al, pharmacological screening of root bark extracts of S. longipedunculata revealed that the root bark possesses potent anti-inflammatory effect in the topical and systemic models of acute inflammation. Securidaca longipedunculata is popular for its anti-cancer activity. It is common in savannah areas; people around Oke-Ogun, Ogbomoso, Ilorin and the North generally are familiar with it.  Did you also notice that it is an aphrodisiac too? Nature seems to like men! Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com