The Ogun State Government in collaboration with IHS Towers Nigeria Limited and WeforGood International has empowered 100 youths across the three senatorial districts in the state. This skill-acquisition programme, according to a statement signed by Mrs Oluwakemi Ogungbade, press officer, Ogun State’s Job Creation and Youth Empowerment Office, cuts across different vocational skills, including catering, baking, tie and dye, coding and animation, as well as arts and crafts. The statement said, “A total number of 100 youths have been empowered across the three senatorial districts of Ogun State, in different vocational skills, including catering, baking, tie and dye, coding and animation, as well as arts and crafts, facilitated by the government in collaboration with two private firms, IHS Nigeria Limited and WeforGood International, both in Lagos. “The State Deputy Governor, Noimot Salako-Oyedele, while speaking at the graduation ceremony of the trainees in Abeokuta, said the Public-Private Partnership initiative of the state government, has given the teeming youths opportunity to be self-reliant and sufficient. “Salako-Oyedele, represented by the Senior Special Adviser to the Deputy Governor, Raman Salako, explained that vocational skills were essential to the development and growth of a nation, affirming that the effort of the present administration has brought about the birth of TechHub and Jobs portal, calling on other private organisations to hunt for talents, to engage youths meaningfully. “Speaking on behalf of the participants, Mr Adenekan Olayinka, said the training would avail them the opportunity to be job providers rather than seekers. At the end of the training, the participants were issued certificates. They were also given basic working tools and start-up kits. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com