Financial experts have attributed the decline in Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product growth in the past five years under the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to insecurity and lack of economic diversification. According to a data consultancy firm, StatiSense, the GDP of Nigeria has grown the least in 22 years under the Buhari’s regime. StatiSense disclosed on May 11 through its official Twitter handle, @StatiSense that under the present regime, the country’s GDP had only grown by 1.4 per cent, whereas it grew by 25.6 per cent, 25.9 per cent and 81 per cent during the administrations of former Presidents Goodluck Jonathan, Umar Yar’Adua and Olusegun Obasanjo respectively. Speaking with The PUNCH on Monday, a financial expert, Michael Pope-Peters, explained that the security challenges in the country coupled with the failure of the government to significantly develop the agricultural sector had contributed largely to the growth decline. He said, “When Buhari came into power, he started facing serious security issues. This forced a lot of companies to leave the country. “When I was in Kaduna for a research, for instance, I realised that most companies have folded up; they are no longer functioning because of the security problems in that area.” Pope-Peters added that the lack of development in the agricultural sector had led to a significant reduction in food production, which, in turn, had affected the production capacity and profit margins of manufacturing companies. He added, “The Buhari’s administration hasn’t been able to build its economic plan around any particular sector. “If you look at the budget allocations of the last three years and try to pinpoint which particular sector they pump money into, you won’t be able to. They tell you agriculture, but that isn’t the case; there is no significant improvement in the sector. “Most of the funds allocated to farmers in various parts of the country to boost production never get to them. They stop at a particular point in the administrative chain and no one is checking it. “When farmers don’t farm, the manufacturing sector won’t have raw materials to use in production and if they don’t produce, they don’t make money; they lay off staff, and eventually they fold up.” Another financial expert, Dr Samuel Nzekwe, who spoke with The PUNCH in a separate interview, attributed the nosedive to the worsening insecurity and infrastructure dearth in key sectors of the economy. “As a result of insecurity, many Nigerians are unable to go to work; farmers can’t go to their farms and so on. When we had money, we couldn’t invest in infrastructure. We need infrastructure to get the industrial sector working,” he said. He added that the security challenges had created an unstable environment that is unattractive to foreign and local investors, thus the decline in investments. “Also, you need enabling environment to attract direct foreign investments and even local investors. No investor will want to invest in an unstable economy or a nation ravaged by insecurity,” Nzekwe said. When asked what the present regime can do to boost the GDP’s growth, both experts agreed that the best way to ensure economic resilience and boost the GDP growth was to invest in infrastructures, health, education, communication and agriculture. The experts also advised the government to restore the country’s global image by tackling the issues of insecurity, stating that this move would encourage foreign investments. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com