The Director-General of the Progressives Governors Forum, Dr Salihu Lukman, has said a national consensus has been built on the need to restructure Nigeria, as such, there was nothing spectacular about the communique issued by the Peoples Democratic Party Governors Forum on the subject. Lukman was responding to the communique issued by the PDP Governors Forum, after its May 16 meeting in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. The PDPGF had asked the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to send an executive bill to the National Assembly to restructure the country and create state police. In response, Lukman, in a statement titled, ‘Re: PDP Governors Ibadan Resolutions,’ which he signed in Abuja, on Tuesday, accused the PDP governors of playing to the gallery. He stated that there was nothing special about the PDP communique other than the fact that “…It reinforces the current national consensus about the need for devolution of powers in the country, otherwise known as restructuring. This is no longer a partisan matter but an issue of national imperative.” He explained that APC governors, had in line with recommendations contained in the APC Committee on True Federalism, taken a position on the matter and have since communicated same to the National Assembly. The PGFDG further said, “Therefore, instead of playing politics on a matter that is beyond media campaign, PDP Governors should follow the footsteps of Progressive Governors by engaging the leadership of the National Assembly to speed up processes of Constitutional amendment. “The major outstanding political issue at this point is the inability of opposition parties in the country, including the PDP, to categorically declare their position, especially in terms of issues of implementation. “Having mismanaged opportunities to initiate all the recommendations being proposed by the PDP Governors between 1999 and 2015, how can anybody in PDP claim any moral standing to demand for any executive bill? “If the issue is as simple as getting the President to transmit executive bill, what stops all the PDP Presidents from initiating it for 16 years?” When contacted, the National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan said, “This APC regime should be ashamed of itself. “This was a party or rather an amalgamation of power-mongers who hoodwinked Nigerians into believing they genuinely want to restructure this federation. Now they are in charge, what Nigerians are getting are truckloads of excuses.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com