SOME of the 90 international travellers from Brazil, India and Turkey, who were declared persons of interest on Sunday for violating the provisions of the COVID-19 Health Regulations Protection, 2021, have started reaching out to the Federal Government, The PUNCH has learnt. While some of them have been calling the Presidential Steering Committee on COVID-19, which declared them persons of interest on Sunday, some others have been visiting their states’ Departments of Public Health. The Head of the Technical Secretariat of the PSC, Dr Muktar Muhammad, confirmed this to our correspondent on Tuesday. The Chairman of the PSC, who is also the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, had disclosed that the violators arrived in Nigeria between May 8 and May 15 through the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos, and the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja. He said the affected persons had been declared Persons of Interest on account of posing considerable danger to the overall public health and for the violation of Nigeria COVID-19 travel protocol and they were given 48 hours to report. The 48 hours expired on Tuesday evening. Our correspondent had sought to know from Muhammad how many of the defaulters had reported as of Tuesday afternoon. Muhammad replied, “It is hard to say this is the number of those who have reached out because many of them have been calling; some have also visited their states’ Departments of Public Health, but we have been guiding them appropriately.” When asked the number of people on the second batch, the SGF promised that it would be published soon. Muhammad said, “We are still collating names for the second batch. That will be released when we are through. For now, I can’t say the number of those on the list.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com