A boat accident has claimed the lives of 15 villagers in Niger State, while several others are missing. Seventeen persons were, however, said to have been rescued just as local divers were in frantic search to rescue the missing passengers. READ ALSO: Police begin search for cops’ killers, snatched rifles The incident occurred at Tijana in the Munya Local Government Area of the state around 6pm on Saturday. It was gathered that the villagers were returning from a local market in Zumba in the Shiroro Local Government Area of the state when the boat capsized. It was learnt that the boat was overloaded as it was conveying no fewer than 60 passengers, who were mostly women and children, when heavy windstorm made it to capsize. Confirming the incident, the Director-General, Niger State Emergency Management Agency, Ahmad Nga, said, “We learnt that the boat split into two about 50 metres away from the shore. Boat owner and users need to take serious precautions to ensure that they are all safe.” He noted that Governor Abubakar Bello, had directed the agency to take record so as to provide necessary incentives to boat owners to safeguard boat passengers in the state He added, “The lives of our people are very important and we just have to do what we can as government, because we know Niger is surrounded by water; so, we have to safeguard the lives of our people and we have to ensure that they are safe at all times. We know providing safeguard measures is daunting, but we have to do it in phases and we can start from somewhere. “We have also commenced a sensitisation exercise and we have advised people to be mindful and take precautionary measures as we are collaborating with relevant stakeholders to ensure that everyone is safe from the danger of likely flooding this year. “We condole with the families of the victims and sincerely, the government is in mourning mood, because loosing 28 people and some still missing is not a joke as it calls for serious concern and sympathy, and we pray Allah repose the souls of those, who died in the ugly incident.” The Sarkin Kasuwan (head of the market) of Zumba, Mallam Adamu Ahmed, said some of the victims were villagers, who fled their different communities after bandits recently sacked them from their ancestral homes. He stated, “The boat was conveying no fewer than 60 passengers and there was heavy windstorm and these two factors may have contributed to the accident. “Already, 17 people have been rescued by local divers, who swung into action immediately the accident was reported, and they are still on the rescue operation.”    ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com