Operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission have arrested four suspected Internet fraudsters at a popular hotel in Makurdi, Benue State. PUNCH Metro learnt that the suspects were rounded up on Tuesday, May 18, 2021, by operatives of the commission following credible intelligence on their alleged criminal activities. A statement by the Head, Media and Publicity, EFCC, Wilson Uwujaren, named the suspects as Igba Simon, Edigbo Fredrick, Sunday Nazarethe and one other. In a similar development, six suspected Internet fraudsters were arrested in Enugu on Monday. The suspects are Tochukwu Okoro, Okechukwu Ejechie, Nwankwo Okeke, Edeh Emmanuel, Emeka Chukwunonso and Kenechukwu Ekunie. A statement by Uwujaren said, “They were arrested at Bricks Estate, Independence Layout, Enugu based on credible intelligence on their alleged criminal activities. “A Toyota Camry car with number plate YAB 418 AZ was recovered from Tochukwu Okoro, while other incriminating materials, including laptops and mobile phones, were recovered from the other suspects.” The anti-graft agency said the suspects would be charged as soon as the investigation was concluded. Similarly, the Imo State Police Command, on Monday, said it had arrested three fleeing suspected Internet fraudsters. The police spokesman in the state, Bala Elkana, told our correspondent in Owerri that the suspects, Chidiebere Nwaguma, 23; Chukwuemeka Johnson, 20; and Maduka Vincent, 22, were arrested on Thursday, May 20, 2021, in Orogwe, Owerri West Local Government Area of the state. Elkana disclosed that three laptops, three iPhones and some wraps of substances suspected to be Indian hemp were recovered from the suspects, who hail from Idemeogwa in the Mbaitoli Local Government Area of the state. The police spokesman added that the state Commissioner of Police, Abutu Yaro, had instructed that the suspects be arraigned before a court. Elkana said, “On May 20, acting on credible intelligence, operatives from the Tactical Unit, Imo State Police Command, busted a syndicate of notorious Internet fraudsters, who had been on the run for a series of cybercrimes they committed within Imo and neighbouring states.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com