A lawmaker representing Maiduguri Metropolitan Council in the House of Representatives, AbdulKadir Rahis, has sacked one of his aides, Bukar Tanda, for exalt the leader of Boko Haram sect, Abubakar Shekau, for committing suicide during an attempt by a factional terrorist group to capture him (Shekau). Tanda, in a Facebook post, had referred to Shekau as an admirable true hero. Tanda had posted his view on Thursday, on his known Facebook, saying, “I admire and appreciate his (Shekau) courage to terminate his life. He lived a life of a hero and died a true hero. He did it in such a way that not even traces of his corpse will be found.” The Rep aide’s comment was greeted by a lot of criticism both on the social media and on the streets of Maiduguri. Many saw it as a confirmation of constant accusations from the military, alleging that some residents sympathised with Boko Haram fighters who have since 2009 killed countless number of people of all ages, majority of them men from hundreds of communities in Borno and parts of the North-East. Reacting to Tanda’s comment, Rahis in a letter addressed to the legislative aide and titled, ‘Notification of termination of appointment’, said, “I wish to formally write and notify you of the termination of your appointment as my legislative aide forthwith. “Your actions, utterances and opinions of recent are at variance with my interests, that of my constituency and our great party, APC. “This letter also serves as a disclaimer to any action or position you took or wish to take, on any matter that may have the remotest connection with me in a person or my office.” When our correspondent contacted Rahis to authenticate the origin of the letter, he said it was from him and that he was tired of the embarrassment from the aide. He said, “I have always been cautioning him without him changing, but this I cannot definitely take anymore, informing the reason for the sacking.” ”Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com