Senator Shehu Sani, who represented Kaduna Central in the 8th Senate, says rather than pay thugs to attack protesting workers in Kaduna State workers, those behind the sinister act should hire the hoodlums to go after bandits terrorising the state. Kaduna has become the hub of bandits in recent times as the merciless souls maim, rape, kidnap and kill with crude savagery. But in a string of tweets on Wednesday, Sani advised the sponsors of hoodlums on NLC workers tp direct their energy to bandits. “Those who are openly or secretly recruiting and paying thugs to intimidate and attack peaceful labour protesters in Kaduna, should have used them to go after bandits who have now encircled our city,” he wrote. Sani also said the strike embarked upon by workers under the aegis of the Nigeria Labour Union might become a “national pandemic” if not handled carefully. The ex-Senator, who apparently felt the situation has overwhelmed Governor Nasir El-Rufai, called on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) to return from Paris where he is attending the African Finance Summit in order to proffer solution to the problem. “If the Kaduna NLC strikes and protests couldn’t end on a round table, it will become a ‘national pandemic’. The capacity of the trade unions to ground everything to a halt cannot be doubted or challenged. The President should come back from Paris and save the situation,” he stated. Kaduna has been grounded for about 72 hours as aviation workers, bank workers, rail workers, electricity workers, health workers, teachers, amongst others, down tools in protest against the alleged injustice and the mass sacking of about 60,000 civil servants by the El-Rufai-led government. The PUNCH had also reported that thugs disrupted the protests of the workers on Tuesday and on Wednesday. NLC President, Ayuba Wabba, who condemned the attack on workers, alleged that the El-Rufai government hired 50 truckloads of thugs to attack protesting workers in the state. The governor had on Tuesday declared the NLC President wanted for economic sabotage but Wabba dared El-Rufai to effect his arrest even as the union leader led workers on protest for the third day on Wednesday. “What is happening is crude abuse of power and every Nigerian has now seen it. This action is going to be limited to Kaduna for five days and we are still here (Kaduna) and we are going to continue for these five days and where it fails, certainly we are going to escalate it because we believe that we have tiers of government and on this matter, we are very concerned and that is why we cannot change our position because justice has not be done to those workers,” Wabba had said.