THE Igbo apex socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo, has described the claim that members of the Indigenous People of Biafra were planning to attack Lagos State as a rumour aimed at causing division, crisis and conflict among Ndigbo and their host community. A statement on Thursday quoted Ohanaeze Ndigbo as saying that such a rumour was distracting the Lagos State Government from providing good governance for the people. Speaking during a courtesy visit to the state Governor Sanwo-Olu at the Lagos House, Marina, on Thursday, the President of the apex Igbo group, Prof. George Obiozor, advised the governor to ignore such rumour. Recall that the state Commissioner of Police, Mr. Hakeem Odumosu, during a security town hall meeting at the state secretariat attended by the governor, and other principal officials in Lagos on Monday, said there were plans by some groups, including IPOB, to attack ‘soft spots’ in the state. But Obiozor, in his address titled ‘Violence in any part of Lagos State is violence on all of us’, said Ndigbo would not indulge in any act that would harm the harmonious peace and cordial relationship between Igbo and Yoruba, especially Lagos, which he described as second home of several Ndigbo. “We think that this rumour is intended to distract the Lagos State Government from its efforts to provide good governance for all and cause disaffection between Ndigbo who live in Lagos and their host community which is the second home of several Ndigbo,” the former director general of the Nigerian Institute of International Affairs said. Obiozor, who is a former ambassador, said the Igbo nation was renowned for being agents of development and not destruction. He commended the governor for the exemplary leadership he exhibited at the peak of COVID-19 pandemic that ravaged Nigeria, especially in Lagos State, adding that the governor deserved commendation for controlling and restricting the speed of coronavirus with his quick response. Responding, Sanwo-Olu assured Ohanaeze Ndigbo leadership of continuous good governance, security of lives and property of all residents in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com