The Lagos State Government has announced the creation of the Lagos Green Award in a bid to recognise the contribution of individuals and corporations towards making Lagos State environment better. The announcement, which came as a call for nominations ahead of the World Environment Day on June 5, was made via the official Twitter handle of the Lagos State Government. The statement read, “Over the years, various individuals and corporate organisations have continued to contribute to the process of making the environment better. “Most of these individuals and corporate organisations are often not noticed or recognised for their contributions to the environment. “In view of this, the LASG through the Lagos State Ministry of Environment has instituted an environmental award tagged ‘‘Lagos Green Award’’. “The Lagos Green Award is designed to recognise individual and corporate organisations who have contributed to making the Lagos environment better.” The statement also said that the state government would recognise individuals and businesses whose actions improved environmental resilience in the city of Lagos in the areas of environmental management, best environmental practices, oil spill management, health, safety and environmental performance, waste prevention and recycling, solid waste treatment and disposal, emissions control technologies, natural resources conservation and innovation and sustainable solutions. The announcement further noted that participating units will be assessed against separate sets of environmental performance criteria which may encompass some of those used in the assessment of the various sectors. The number of awardees is limited to one Gold Award, one Silver Award, and one Bronze Award for each sector. The sectors are (a) Construction Industry; b) Property Management; (c) Transport and Logistics; (d) Retailers; (e) Hotels, Restaurants and Catering Companies; (f) Financial Institutions (g) NGOs and Public sector (H) Industry (I) Media. The statement advised that entries must identify an environment initiative and how it had impacted on the state. The entries are to be submitted to the office of the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Environment, Lagos State. Alternatively, entries could be sent by email to: lagosstateministryof theenvinron@gmail.com, alasisi@lagosstate.gov.ng, temitope.bello@lagosstate.gov.ng. The closing date for entries is May 24, 2021. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com