JOHN ALECHENU takes a look at the debate generated by the decision of the Independent National Electoral Commission to deregister 73 opposition political parties after the 2019 general elections and the recent Supreme Court judgment on the issue Since the formation of the first wholly indigenous political party, the Nigerian National Democratic Party, in 1923, the quest among politicians to own and control platforms to advance personal and group/regional interests, has not waned. Leading political associations/parties, which followed after the colonial era, were mostly deeply rooted in ethno-regional biases, which merely fitted into the colonial policy of divide and rule. This was evident when the late Nnamdi Azikiwe formed the National Council of Nigeria and the Cameroons. It was also arguably the driving force when Chief Obafemi Awolowo and Sir Ahmadu Bello set up the Action Group and Northern Peoples Congress, respectively. After decades of military rule, which began in 1966, five political parties namely: the National Party of Nigeria, Unity Party of Nigeria, Nigeria Peoples Party, Peoples Redemption Party and the Great Nigeria Peoples Party were registered to contest in the 1979 general elections. That democratic experiment, known as the Second Republic (1979-1983), was again brought to an abrupt end via another coup led by the then Major General Muhammadu Buhari on December 31, 1983. Self-styled military President, General Ibrahim Babangida, who forced Buhari out in 1985, after several failed experiments, decreed two political parties into existence. They were the Social Democratic Party and the National Republican Convention. Babangida’s experiment also ended when the late General Sani Abacha took over power in 1993. Abacha’s attempt to form five parties was equally short lived when he died in office in 1998. With the return of political activities in 1998, the General Abdusalami Abubakar military junta set up the Independent National Electoral Commission and saddled it with the task of registering and regulating political parties. INEC’s current National Commissioner and Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, while speaking about some of the commission’s roles said, “INEC is constitutionally and legally empowered to register political parties in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, the Electoral Act and the commission’s Regulations and Guidelines for the Registration and Dissolution of Political Parties, 2018. “Any association intending to transmute into a political party must satisfy and conform to the provisions of sections 221 to 229 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended). “The association must also satisfy the provisions of sections 78, 82 and 84 of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended) and the Regulations and Guidelines for the Registration and Dissolution of Political Parties, 2018 issued by the commission.” At no time in Nigeria’s recent political history were more political parties registered than in 2018/2019. A record 91 political parties received the nod to participate in the 2019 general elections. However, following the failure of some of these parties to win any seat, INEC on February 6, 2020, while relying on its powers, deregistered 74 of them. INEC argued that the affected parties failed to satisfy the requirements of the Forth Alteration to the Electoral Act, 2020 (As amended). While some of the deregistered parties accepted their fate, the Advanced Congress of Democrats and 21 others went to the Federal High Court, Abuja, to challenge the decision. They argued that INEC failed to follow proper procedures by first informing them in writing before deregistering them. It went ahead to deregister them even when it was aware that the matter was in court. One out of the 74 deregistered parties, the National Unity Party, filed a separate suit challenging INEC’s powers to deregister it. Although it lost the case at both the Federal High Court and Court of Appeal, it took the matter to the Supreme Court and recently lost. The National Chairman of the UPP, Yunusa Tanko, in an interview with The PUNCH, on the matter said, “The case, which the Supreme Court gave judgment on, is one out of several. For clarity, it is with regards to the case involving the NUP, which challenged INEC’s powers to deregister it. “There is, however, the case of whether proper procedures were followed before we were deregistered. This is a case involving 22 of us. As we speak, the matter is still before the Supreme Court. “If you recall, 22 of us went to the Appeal Court after the Federal High Court upheld INEC’s decision to deregister us. Justice Monica Dongban of the Appeal Court, who read the lead judgment on our appeal, set aside the decision of INEC to deregister us.” Dongban had while delivering judgment in suit: CA/ABJ/CV/507/2020 between the ACD and 21 others Vs Attorney-General of the Federation and INEC held that the commission infringed on the constitutional rights of the affected citizens to freely associate. The court also held that INEC took the action at a time the matter was still pending before a court of competent jurisdiction. The office of the Attorney-General of the Federation and INEC have appealed to the Supreme Court. Corroborating this position, the Secretary of the Coalition of United Political Parties, Chief Peter Ameh, cautioned INEC against misinterpreting the Supreme Court judgment. He argued that the recent Supreme Court judgment in the NUP matter did affect that of 22 other parties currently pending before the apex court. However, a separate body of opposition political parties, the Inter-Parties Advisory Council, while reacting to the Supreme Court judgment, appealed to the deregistered parties to find accommodation within the 18 parties, which survived the purge, to advance the course of democracy. INEC’s Director of Voter Education and Publicity, Mr Nick Danzang, maintained that in line with the provisions of laws on the powers and functions of the commission, which include to register, regulate and where necessary, deregister political parties, only 18 political parties were recognised as duly registered. Danzang said, “Before the conduct of the 2019 general elections, we had 73 parties, which fielded candidates. And in the aftermath of the conduct of the 2019 general elections, and as it is expected of us by law, whatever a general election is conducted, INEC does an assessment of the performance of the political parties. “And where the parties are found wanting, for example if they are not able to win any seat at all in the elections, then INEC has the right by law to deregister them.” The National Chairman of the defunct United Peoples Party, Chief Chekwas Okorie, who has since collapsed his party structure into the ruling All Progressives Congress, said the case between INEC and the political parties called to question Nigeria’s sincerity in the desire to build and sustain democracy. He explained that for democracy to work, citizens’ participation remained an irreducible minimum, adding, “To this end, the argument that for our population size, it will not be out of place to have as many parties as possible is not misplaced. “Nigeria, with our size, can make do with as many parties as possible, because it’s not supposed to be compelling that a registered political party should contest every office in the land. “Unfortunately, we have this electoral law that has imposed on political parties the burden to contest every election and in addition, if you are not able to win elections, you will be deregistered. And that is what we suffered. “The law, which allows INEC to deregister political parties, compels it to register the same parties. Nobody appears to have considered the adverse effect this will have on our political development. “Today, you have deregistered political parties that have gained experience in terms of participating in elections, even if they didn’t win, only to register new parties that have zero experience in this area; have you helped democracy?” Speaking in a similar vein, the Executive Director, Civil Societies Legislative and Advocacy Centre, Awual Musa, said, “It will be wrong to see political parties as mere vehicles for capturing and retaining power. “We must begin to see political parties as part of our democratic institutions, which we must nurture and grow to play important roles in nation building. We will be doing ourselves a whole world of good when we take deliberate steps to build our political parties, which are major players in our quest to build a sustainable political culture.” A Gombe State chieftain of the ruling All Progressives Congress, Abdullahi Jalo, expressed the view that at this stage of national life, Nigerian politicians ought to think more about quality rather than quantity. He said, “I don’t think there is any political tendency that cannot find expression in the existing 18 registered political parties. “It is not like a limited liability company. If there are true progressives among those whose parties have been deregistered, the natural thing for them to do is to join the APC.” The National Publicity Secretary of the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party, Kola Ologbondiyan, on his part said, “The PDP is the only party, which has a brand you can find in all nooks and crannies of Nigeria. Our umbrella is big enough to accommodate all those who want to save this country from the mess we all agree we are in today. “This is democracy, we may have as many parties as the law permits, but I can tell you, the PDP remains the brand Nigerians are yearning for.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com