The House of Representatives has assigned its committees to meet with the Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami (SAN); and Minister of Labour, Employment and Productivity, Senator Chris Ngige, on how to end the ongoing indefinite nationwide strike by workers in the judiciary. The resolution followed the unanimous adoption of a motion at the plenary on Thursday, titled ‘Call on the Federal Government to Ensure Speedy Resolution of the Lingering Strike Action by the Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria.’ Sponsor of the motion, Mr Sergius Ogun, recalled that JUSUN had embarked on industrial action since April 6, 2021, due to the failure of the government to implement financial autonomy for the judiciary in line with constitutional provisions and the judgment of a Federal High Court. Moving the motion, Ogun said, “The House is concerned that the strike, which has persisted for over a month, has paralysed the functions, operations and activities of all courts in Nigeria, thereby shutting the door on access to justice against Nigerians. “The House is also concerned that the strike has contributed to the overcrowding of police cells and correctional facilities across the country, as inmates are unable to go for trial or even get bail, as well as festering of disputes between private citizens as there is no judicial forum to submit their grievances for resolution.” The lawmaker hailed the federal and some state governments that had taken steps to resolve the dispute so that the strike could be called off. Adopting the motion, the House urged the Federal Government and government of the states to speedily intervene and resolve the lingering strike by the Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria. The lawmakers also mandated the House Committees on Labour, Employment and Productivity; and Judiciary to “interface with the Minister of Labour and Employment and the Attorney-General of the Federation and the Minister of Justice on steps taken to address the matter, and report within four weeks for further legislative action.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com