The convener of the fourth edition of The Event Clinic, Chioma Obiefuna, has advised stakeholders in the event industry, especially vendors, to constantly learn about new trends and network. Obiefuna, who is the Vice President of the Association of Event Vendors, noted that the ‘event clinic’ was a platform for all event professionals to leverage in evaluating and diagnosing the ailments plaguing their businesses, while getting solutions from industry experts. She said, “The event industry is a constantly evolving one. Thus, it has become imperative for players to update their knowledge base. “There has always been a yearning from most ‘eventpreneurs’ to have an avenue to learn, network and still have fun. That was what inspired the idea of TEC. It’s not just an event conference; it is one with a world of difference.” Obiefuna also noted that in line with this year’s theme, ‘World Of Opportunities’, it was high time for event planners to put on their thinking caps to explore the numerous opportunities that abound in the industry in order to remain in business.  She added that that was what influenced the idea of having six industry experts who took turns to address issues that bothered on dynamism in the sweet and savoury industry, as well as delivering exceptional client experience in the luxury space. Some of the speakers at the event were Amaka Mbagwu of Barcode Cocktails; Veronica Odoemenam of Veritas Catering; Kehinde Iyiola of Finesse Events; Ololade Otuyemi of RlDesserts and Sikeola Osipitan of Etal Events. Other guests at the event were the President of the Association of Event Vendors Nigeria, Abiodun Oniyitan; and the President of the Association of Professional Party Organisers and Event Managers of Nigeria, Adefunke Kuyoro. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com