The Chairman, Caretaker/Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of the All Progressives Congress, Mai Mala Buni, has alleged that some mischievous elements plan to cause disaffection with the aim of detracting from efforts to rebuild the ruling party. The Yobe State governor also made accusations of plans to discredit the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd). Buni, in a statement by his spokesman, Mamman Mohammed, on Friday, was reacting to a newspaper report (not PUNCH) which he described as junk journalism, delusive, fallacious and the misleading figment of somebody’s imagination. The statement read in part, “We are conscious of the satanic plans being orchestrated by some mischievous elements to cause disaffection to distract the Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee of the party from the onerous task of rebuilding the party and to discredit the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government. “For the avoidance of doubt, there is no disagreement as a grain of wheat between the President of the Senate Ahmad Lawan and the Executive Governor of Yobe state, who doubles as Chairman, APC Caretaker Extraordinary Convention Planning Committee, Mai Mala Buni. “They have remained good brothers in a very good relationship with a common goal of contributing to the development of their state, party and country.” According to the statement, Buni is heavily preoccupied with the task of governance of his state and rebuilding the party. “It amounts to insubordination for any loyal party member to start canvassing for any political office two years into the tenure of a sitting president in the party. “It should be noted that President Muhammadu Buhari has two more years to complete his tenure; it is compulsory for the party and every loyal member to support him and the APC administration. We cannot contemplate anything outside the set plans of the party,” it added. Buni, however, warned the media to resist any form of manipulation and stand for truth and justice at all times. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com