By the “Nigerian Dilemma”, I am referring to the ethno-sectarian divide that defines the perennial conflict, violence and nebulous between North and South – between Muslims and Christians in our country. It has virtually become Nigeria’s national curse; colouring every aspect of its political and human development. I echo the famous work on race in America by the Swedish economist and Nobel laureate,  Gunnar Myrdal. (An American Dilemma: The Negro Problem and Modern Democracy, London & New York: Harper & Brothers, 1947). By the “American dilemma”, Myrdal was referring to the tension between liberal democratic ideals and the abject conditions of African-Americans in America. On the one hand, we have the American creed and the belief that people are created equal and have human rights endowed upon by the Almighty Himself; on the other hand, blacks, as one tenth of the population, have been atrociously treated as an inferior race and were denied basic civil and political rights.Interestingly, Myrdal was assisted by the African-American political scientist, Ralph Bunche, who also drafted chapters of that eponymous work. Bunche subsequently worked as a close associate of the UN Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjold as Under Secretary-General for political affairs. He was awarded the Nobel Prize for his peace efforts in Palestine. The seeds of the Nigerian dilemma were planted long ago by the British colonialists. The Lugardian indirect-rule system favoured the emirate structures of the Fulani caliphate that was created in the 19th century by Usman Danfodio. Particularly in the Middle Belt, British colonial administration systematically subordinated the non-Muslim communities to the hegemony of the Caliphate. The resurgence of radical political Islam across the world has added fuel to the tinder-box in Nigeria. Radical Islam has been one of the key features of the African scene in recent times. In East Africa, it has been suggested that discrimination against Muslims during the colonial era and after has been a key factor in the radicalisation of Muslim groups. Equally crucial has been Saudi-sponsored Wahabbism and Iranian support for extremist radicals. It is evident that the American military campaign in Afghanistan may have succeeded in breaking the back of the Taliban and their al-Qaeda comrades. As a consequence, they may be turning to West Africa and the Sahel. It is generally accepted that our country is almost evenly divided between Christians in the South and Muslims in the North; with the predominantly Christian Middle Belt straddling North and South. The structure of politics in Nigeria has often reflected the fissures, regionalism, identity politics and competitive ethnicity inherent in such a diverse polity. Most Nigerian Muslims are Sunnis, with some of the elites belonging to rival Qadiriyya and Tijanniya Sufi denominations. Other denominations include the Tariqa, the Malikiya, the Ahmadiya, and the Islamiya. One of the latest denominations to make an entry into the religious landscape in northern Nigeria is the Shi’i religion. Following the Iranian revolution of 1979, several Nigerian students went to study in Iran and returned as Shi’i adherents and proselytisers. One of the new denominations that draw the young educated Muslim intelligentsia is the Jama’t Izalat al Bid’a Wa Iqamat as Sunna (Society of Removal of Innovation and Reestablishment of the Sunna). Another new group is the Da’awa, sometimes used interchangeably with the Hisba whose role is to enforce Shari’a law. In a country of such diversity, ethnic and religious cleavages can easily be exploited by unscrupulous elites to inflame latent tensions, leading to inter-communal violence. In this respect, Nigeria is not any different from other multi-ethnic developing societies where power elites often prefer to exploit what the eminent American political scientist, Crawford Young, terms “the politics of cultural pluralism”. Outbreaks of communal violence have characterised multi-ethnic nations such as India, Malaysia and Kenya. In the context of poverty and dwindling economic opportunities, horizontal inequities, whether real or imagined, can aggravate latent tensions, leading to violence and conflict. Politicians who lose out in power struggles do often resort to religion and ethnicity as banners for political mobilisation. This largely explains why violence has been a characteristic feature of the Nigerian political scene since independence. For much of the first decade of independence, politics in Nigeria was characterised by widespread political violence, including violent coups d’état and, ultimately, civil war during 1967–1970. The traditions of democratic politics have been marked by electoral violence and occasional bloodletting between rival political parties. Succeeding governments, whether civilian or military, have sometimes engaged in what could only be defined in terms of ‘state terrorism’. During the Second Republic, the Shagari administration used the police force to suppress protests by local peasant communities in Bakolori, leading to the death of hundreds of people. Military rule bolstered the culture of impunity, corruption and state terror as part of the culture of rulership in our country. The violent suppression of communities in the Niger Delta who were protesting the environmental catastrophes that engulfed their ancestral lands were often met with brutal violence, as exemplified in Ogoniland, Udi and elsewhere. With the widespread misery occasioned by Structural Adjustment Programme reforms and the ensuing repression and political decay in the 1980s, Nigerian ethnic communities began to seek succour in new primordial associations. Regional and ethnic militias became the order of the day. Notable among these were groups such as the Movement for the Actualisation for the Sovereign State of Biafra, Egbesu Boys and O’Odua Peoples’ Congress in the West, Niger-Delta Volunteers Force, Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta, Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni People. These militant groups on their part resorted increasingly to violence and kidnapping in their struggle to ensure ‘resource control’, in addition to participation in oil bunkering. Northern Nigeria has remained the most troubled region in the country in terms of ethno-sectarian conflict. Since independence in 1960, the northern elites have found it fit to expediently use religion as a means of consolidating their power and ensuring their ascendancy over the peoples of the Middle Belt. The Premier of the Northern Region, Sir Ahmadu Bello, was quoted as saying: “This New Nation called Nigeria should be an estate of our great grandfather Uthman Dan Fodio. We must ruthlessly prevent a change of power. We use the minorities in the North as willing tools, and the South, as conquered territory and never allow them to rule over us, and never allow them to have control over their future”. While the late Premier was actually more liberal in practice than his words would suggest, those who came after him were not. While Sir Ahmadu Bello, Sardauna of Sokoto, did all he could to embrace the predominantly Christian peoples of the Middle Belt, the leaders who came after him did not make such pretensions. The re-introduction of Sharia criminal law in several of the northern states during 2000 and 2001 was to lead to widespread unrest in the northern states. Sharia criminal law had been the dominant legal culture since the Fulani revolution spearheaded by Sheikh Usman Dan Fodio in the early 19th century. It was more or less abolished when the British conquered Nigeria. The common law was made to replace all those practices that were deemed to affront ‘natural justice, equity and good conscience’. During the constitutional debates in the late 1970s, the controversy over Sharia almost threatened to scuttle the political transition process. Protests by minority Christian communities led to violent confrontations in Kaduna and other northern capitals, leading to the death of thousands of people. The then President, Olusegun Obasanjo, had dismissed it as a form of ‘political Sharia’ which would ‘fizzle out’ in no time. Fizzle out it did not. Instead, it has become increasingly entrenched and has effectively divided Nigeria into two separate jurisdictions; the one governed by Islamic Sharia and the other by the common law tradition.  Yan Hisba in the North has been enforcing Sharia law across the board, whether you are a Muslim or not. The success of Sharia ideology has paved the way for groups such as Boko Haram, ISWAP and many others. Under a government that is rather sympathetic to such ideology, security outfits such as the Eastern Security Network in the South-East and Amotekun in the South-West have emerged to challenge them. Nigerians may well be in for a long night of brutal struggle between Good and Evil. The 1999 constitution is a fraud. Nobody knows who wrote it. In good hands, people can live with even bad constitutions. But in the hands of closet Jihadists, it represents the triumph of tyranny. This explains the current clamour for “restructuring”. The majority of Nigerians will not accept anything less. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com