The Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra has warned South-East governors that the newly inaugurated Operation Restore Peace by the acting Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, will set the region on fire. It noted that the operation could allow jihadists to take over the region. A statement by the MASSOB National Director of Information, Edeson Samuel, on Sunday, urged the governors not to trust the Federal Government, alleging that the President, Major General Muhamadu Buhari (retd.), was the worst enemy of Ndigbo. Edeson said though MASSOB had maintained its non-violent posture, it must not be pushed to the wall. The PUNCH had reported that the IG during the inauguration of the operation, on Tuesday, charged his men to fish out and kill all Biafran secessionists and gunmen attacking police stations. He equally threatened that if any policeman lost his gun, even his dead body would be tried and dismissed from the Force and his family would not receive any benefit. But MASSOB, in the statement, said the IG should have known that threats, killings and destruction “of our environment will never stop the spirit of Biafra from flourishing.” “The latest ‘Executive Order’ by both the police and army chiefs to ‘shoot on sighting’ non-violent pro-Biafran agitators or gathering of Igbo youths is another systematic move by the Fulanis to wipe Ndigbo out from our native land,” the group added. MASSOB maintained that the IG and “his brother”, Major General Mohammedu Buhari (retd) with their Fulani cabals controlling the Nigerian government could not stop the agitation for Biafra Republic. “The more they applied their primitive and insensitive tactics to stop the people of Biafra, the higher we grow with international sympathy and diplomatic recognition. “The Army, Inspector General of Police and other security chiefs could not restore peace in Borno, Niger, Zamfara, Katsina, Kaduna states and entire North-East, only to rush down to Biafra land to carry out ethnic cleansing. “The people of Biafra can never be intimidated by their weapons, lies and deception,” the statement said. Meanwhile, IPOB members in Victoria State in Australia have applauded the decision of the MASSOB leadership, led by Uchenna Madu, to observe a sit-at-home on May 31, 2021 with IPOB. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com