The Bayelsa State Government will use a 50-seater aircraft belonging to Ibom Air to start commercial flight operations at the Bayelsa International Airport. This followed the opening of partnership negotiation between Bayelsa and the Akwa State government, owners of Ibom Air. The partnership was struck on Saturday when a delegation from Bayelsa led by the Deputy Governor, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpo, met in Uyo with their counterparts from Akwa Ibom State. The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority had on April 17 granted Bayelsa International Airport the approval to commence commercial flight operations. A statement on Sunday by Ewhrudjakpo’s Senior Special Assistant on Media, Mr Doubara Atasi, quoted the deputy governor as saying that the state was applying the principle of “starting small to grow big” by going for the 50-seater aircraft. He said the state was desirous of promoting social-economic activities, noting that the choice of Ibom Air was informed by proximity and good bilateral relations between the two states. Ewhrudjakpo also explained that Akwa Ibom had proved to be a dependable neighbour to Bayelsa in so many ways over the years, which must be reciprocated “in the spirit of give and take”. He further expressed optimism that the partnership deal would soon be sealed for the airline to commence flights to and from Bayelsa, Lagos and Abuja, describing the two routes as the highest in traffic for the people of the state. The deputy governor said, “Basically, we are here to discuss how we can have mutually beneficial partnership with your airline, Ibom Air. And our target is on any of your aircraft that has the capacity of about 50 seaters because we don’t want to start too big. “Our intention is to do two flights for now; a trip to and from Abuja as well as a trip to and from Lagos. These are the major cities that our people visit very often for now either for business or for any other purpose.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com