Her several interjections of “I am an orphan” weren’t lost on me as our discourse progressed. So, I asked when she lost her parents and learnt that it happened when she was already a young adult. Although she is now in her fifties, that loss still hits her hard. The encounter took me back to a conversation with a neighbor(in her late forties), who believed that certain decisions she made in matrimony would have turned out differently if she had a parent’s (especially a mum) “shield” longer in her formative years. I remember an influential man in my community, whose nickname literally translates to “an orphan who bore so much maltreatment.’’ He is now in his sixties by the way. There’s also a funny character in the village who would often grieve his “orphan status” all over again when he hits the bottle hard (drunk). He would often sorrow over his mother that is no more who left him all alone to face life. This individual isn’t less than fifty years of age. In one of his episodes, he lamented how lucky we are to still have someone we say “thank’ ma” to. And swore that life feels differently, when they (especially a mother) are no more. As my mind raced through these scenarios, one thing has become clear to me, the sorrow from the loss of one’s parents (especially early in life) never really leaves one. That loss will always find moments to creep into one’s emotions, no matter one’s age! I lost papa about two years back at an age (he was ninety eight) that most people consider “ripe.’’ But there’s hardly a day that I pass by his room or encounter any reminder of him that my emotions don’t quake. The tears don’t even hold back at the slightest reminder of him out there. It’s difficult not to understand how the loss of a parent hits on the emotions, if you have been there. However, what I want to say to those who lost their parents quite early is to not feel shortchanged by life. Where it seems you are down, you are actually above on the other hand. You are more likely to count more children (with surviving parents) in a social dysfunction before an orphan comes into the mix! A lot of you turned out far better than those with the other privilege. There may not have been a mama and papa in your life but God was with you. It’s only the hand of God that makes it possible for a seeming rudderless child to turn out well. The individual I used as a third example above actually became the wealthiest in his family, despite his half siblings having surviving mums. It was recently that I heard the life story of a close friend in full. He began to fend for himself as early as age seven because his widowed mum was drunk most hours of the day.  The few times he heard “have you eaten” from her, she wasn’t sober enough to realise there was nothing for him to eat. So, he began to move around in search of what to eat and also bring home to his mother. Of course, that meant he became “most people’s slave.” He said that by the time he came home one day to behold his mother’s lifeless body, he was already used to fending for both of them, at less than 10 years of age! Today, he is a success story by every standard. I prefer to remind those whose parents are still living to cherish (in every way) what they have. That (the CARE) is what even begins to make the loss bearable when they are no more! Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com