The Imo State Police Command, on Sunday, announced that it had arrested an alleged fake cop and bandit, identified as Michael Osundu. According to the spokesman for the command, Orlando Ikeokwu, one English pump action rifle and 26 live cartridges, and a pair of police uniform with the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police, which were concealed in his Toyota Escalade vehicle with tinted glasses, were recovered from the suspect. Ikeokwu stated that Osundu was suspected to be a member of the gang that attacked the state police command headquarters and the Owerri Correctional Centre on April 5. The police spokesman said, “In line with the mandate and directive of the Inspector-General of Police, Baba Usman, to restore peace and tranquillity in Imo State as well as the determination and adoption of a robust crime prevention and detection strategy of the new Commissioner of Police in Imo State, Abutu Yaro, operatives of the command, while on surveillance and confidence-building patrol, arrested one Michael Osundu of Owerri, who claimed to be based in London, United Kingdom. “He was arrested in connection with criminal activities in the state and he is reasonably suspected to be among the hoodlums, who attacked the Nigeria Correctional Service and the police headquarters on April 5. “However, at the point of arrest, one English pump action rifle and 26 live cartridges, and a pair of police uniform with the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police hidden in his tinted Toyota Escalade vehicle were recovered. “Upon interrogation, he claimed to be a police spy trained at the Police Training School, Ikeja, Lagos. “Meanwhile, the Commissioner of Police has ordered a full-scale investigation into the matter with a view to discovering his level of culpability and possibly arresting other suspects. “He further used the opportunity to call on persons, who participated in the attack of April 5 as well as the escapee inmates/suspects to turn themselves in, else they will be made to face the full wrath of the law if caught. “The CP, therefore, charged members of the public to partner the command by volunteering credible information to the police, which may lead to arresting criminal elements in and around the state.”    ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com