The Nigerian tech startup space is expected to continue to outperform other African nations in 2021, a report by AfricArena has said. The report, however, said most of the startups operating in Nigeria that raised capital were not incorporated in the country. It said, “Africa’s top-performing market, Nigeria, is an interesting case as it does not appear in the top five countries on the ranking of startups by country of incorporation – many startups that raise capital in Nigeria are not incorporated in the country. “As Africa’s top ecosystem, Nigeria ranks considerably low in ‘ease of doing business’.” Nigeria is ranked 131st on the global ease of doing business list. According to the report, African tech startups will raise between $2.25bn and $2.8bn in 2021. It said Nigerian startups raised $219m in the first quarter of this year, adding that the country received $307m in 2020, which was the most by a single African country in the year. The report said, “As of April 2020, our forecast for 2021 was ranging from under $1.6bn to over $3bn, with the worst-case scenario based on a prolonged and fragmented impact on the African economies, and the best-case scenario factoring in a full recovery by Q1 2021. “Based on the above observations, our views are now that 2021 will range between $2.25bn and $2.8bn.” Fintech companies are expected to raise most of the startup fund on the continent. Flutterwave, a Nigerian fintech company, closed a Series C round of $170m in March 2021, raising its valuation to $1bn valuation. In Africa, Kenya attracts more startup investment based on GDP per capita at 0.32 per cent of GDP, which is higher than the same ratio for Asia (0.27 per cent) and Europe (0.16 per cent) but behind North America (0.57 per cent) and the US (0.61per cent). Kenya is ranked in 56th position in the ease of doing business score, which is only behind Rwanda (38th) and Morocco (53rd) on the continent. In 2020, Kenya received $305m in startup investment. Goodwell Investments was quoted as saying, “Yes, it’s easier for foreign investors to invest in Kenya, it’s easier for entrepreneurs also to come from other regions and set up a business there. So, it’s easier to get talent here, it’s easier to settle here, the government has ensured that foreign investment is not interrupted and capital can flow in the country quite easily. “So that is very, very attractive for many people in comparison to Nigeria where the business environment is different. In Nigeria you will find more local entrepreneurs as opposed to East Africa and that creates a difference in how people allocate capital. “For example in logistics in Kenya, in comparison to a similar logistics business in Nigeria, you find that Nigerian businesses might have better traction, and have grown in all areas better than the Kenyan business, but a Kenyan business has higher valuation. It has also been driven mostly by, American VCs, so they kind of look at this environment, from a Silicon Valley perspective.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com