The Christian Association of Nigeria has commiserated with the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), the Nigerian Armed Forces and families of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. General Ibrahim Attahiru, and 10 others who died during the military air crash in Kaduna on Friday. Apart from Attahiru, other victims were Brigadier Generals Ahmed Kuliya, O. Olayinka, and MI Abdulkadir; Majors N. Hamza, L. A. Hayat; Sergeants O. Adesina, and Umar; as well as Aircraftman O. M. Oyedepo, Fl. Lt. TO Asaniyi, and Fl. Lt. A. A. Olufade. CAN’s condolence message was contained in a statement on Sunday by its National Secretary, Daramola Joseph, titled ‘CAN commiserates with President Muhammadu Buhari, Nigerian military and the families of those who died in the most recent military plane crash.’ The statement reads in part, “While our hearts are filled with sorrow for the supreme price they paid, we acknowledge with sense of gratitude to them, their selfless services to all of us in the nation.” The association also called for investigation into the crash and previous ones involving military planes. The statement added, “According to reports, Nigeria had four King Air 350 named NAF 201, NAF 202, NAF 203 and NAF 204. “Sometimes in February this year, NAF 201 crashed in Abuja and killed all the eight Air Force crew men on board. “We also reliably learnt that this was the third military air disaster in the space of three months. “If these reports are true, then it is high time thorough investigations are carried out with a view to ascertaining the immediate and remote causes of these recurrent disasters and address the causes decisively and squarely. “We cannot continue to lose our finest military and security officers to air disasters without treating the situation as a national emergency. “CAN is genuinely concerned and suggests that while the nation still awaits the report of the cause or causes of this latest crash, adequate measures should be taken so as to avert this kind of tragedy both in our military and civil aviation in the future.” The association urged the government and relevant agencies to ascertain that all military aircrafts are fit to fly. CAN advised that adequate care should be extended to the dependants of the deceased. It added, “We once again call on the international community to come to the aid of our country to end the menace of insecurity occasioned by criminals manifesting as kidnappers, bandits and terrorists before they take over the country or turn it into a battle ground. “We call on all Nigerians to join us in CAN on May 28 to 30 to pray to God in the attitude of mourning and soberness for the unprecedented shedding of innocent blood in our nation and to pray to God for his quick intervention in our situation so that normalcy might return.” Nigerien President commiserates with Buhari The Nigerien President, Mohammed Bazoum, on Saturday called the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on the telephone to commiserate with him. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, disclosed this on Sunday in a statement. Shehu quoted the Nigerien President as describing the plane crash as tragic and unfortunate. The statement read, “President Mohamed Bazoum, the leader of Nigeria’s northern neighbour, Niger Republic, on Saturday called President Muhammadu Buhari to console him, as well as the government and people of Nigeria following the plane crash on Friday that killed Lt. General Ibrahim Attahiru, the Chief of Army Staff, along with 10 other military officers. “President Bazoum, who described the plane crash and the resultant deaths as tragic and unfortunate, expressed the condolences of the government and people of his country.” He added, “President Buhari … expressed the nation’s appreciation and gratitude for the sacrifices of the departed military men and promised that the nation will not let their families down.” Similarly, Governor Seyi Makinde of Oyo State on Sunday described the death of Attahiru and others as a huge loss to Nigeria. Makinde, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Taiwo Adisa, on Sunday, commiserated with the families of the deceased soldiers, the Armed Forces, especially the Nigerian Army and the Nigerian Air Force, as well as Buhari. The governor described the death of Asaniyi as a personal loss to him and the state. He added, “Asaniyi’s passage to glory represents a personal loss to me and to the state, because he was one of the many professionals giving wings to Oyo State to fly to its premium place as a Pacesetter State. “I also bid farewell to the gallant men who served their country in wars but lost their lives outside the battlefields.” In the same vein, the Comptroller-General of Nigerian Customs, Col. Hameed Ali (retd.), commiserated with Buhari and the Nigerian Armed Forces on the death of Attahiru, and other military officers. Ali in a statement on Sunday by the NCS’ Public Relations Officer, Joseph Attah, described the deceased as “patriotic officers.” According to the statement, Ali described the late COAS as a “disciplined military professional with exceptional passion for peace and a strong partner in the ongoing fight against smuggling.” He also urged members of the Nigerian Armed Forces, particularly the Nigerian Army, not to let the tragic incident dampen their morale in ongoing fight against insurgency and other security challenges. Osun mourns ‘two sons’ Also, the Osun State Government in a statement on Sunday by the Commissioner for Information and Civic Orientation, Mrs Funke Egbemode, said it lost illustrious two sons in Sergeant Adesina of Idoo community in the Egbedore Local Government Area and ACM Oyedepo of Ora Igbomina in Ifedayo LGA in the plane crash. The statement read in part: “Osun lost two of its illustrious sons in the air crash that claimed the lives of the Chief of Army Staff on Friday. These are painful losses to the state and to the nation at large.” The government also commiserated with the leadership of Idoo and Ora Igbomina communities respectively. Requiem mass to hold for late pilot Meanwhile, a requiem mass is being organised in honour of the late Olufade. Relatives, friends and colleagues of the deceased, especially those who could not make it to Abuja on Saturday, were said to be planning to gather on Wednesday to pray for the repose the late flight officer. A source close to the family told our correspondent on the telephone on Sunday that the mass would hold at St. Joseph’s Catholic Church, Nigerian Air Force Base in Kano. The source said, “A requiem mass will be held in honour of late Fl. Lt. Olufade Alfred at St Joseph Catholic Church, NAF Base, Kano, on Wednesday, May 26. “He served there during his pilot school days. The mass is to pray for the repose of his soul.” ‘Make public probe into past Military air crashes’ Also, a legal luminary, Mallam Yusuf Ali (SAN), has urged the Federal government to make public investigations into earlier crashes involving the Military in the country. Ali made the call on Sunday in his reaction to the Friday crash which led to the death of Attahiru and 10 others. He also asked the Federal Government to learn from history and nip another civil war in the bud by conducting a thorough investigation into the destruction of police stations and facilities of the Independent National Electoral Commission in some parts of the country. Ali said, “Recurring cases of air crashes involving military aircrafts are troubling and danger signal for a country battling with security challenges. “I want to say that it is time the Federal Government made public investigations on the earlier crashes, because people don’t know why Nigeria Air Force aircrafts crashed in three successive times and we lost highly trained people in the security sector. For a nation that is facing serious insecurity left, right and centre to be losing such men, it should be a source of worry to us. On attacks on police stations and INEC facilities in parts of the country, Ali said, “These create more fears for the citizens…. The problem of insecurity is now nationwide. “The country should deploy high level of intelligence to unearth and bring to the fore the people behind these acts. “Of course attacks on police stations, for those who are old enough in 1967, the civil war started almost like that. Police stations were being attacked in a particular section of Nigeria. Before you knew it snowballed into the civil war. So we must not allow history to repeat itself,” he added. VP’s wife visits COAS’ widow The wife of the Vice President, Mrs Dolapo Osinbajo, has visited the wife of the late army chief, Mrs Fati Attahiru The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the VP wife made the visit on behalf of the President’s wife, Mrs Aisha Buhari, and herself. A source familiar with the visit informed the NAN that Mrs Osinbajo visited the late COAS’s wife on Sunday afternoon. The source disclosed that Dolapo was among the early sympathisers to visit the deceased senior officer’s wife at the Flag Staff House at Niger Barracks, Abuja. It added that the VP’s wife was received by the President of DEPOWA and wife of the Chief of Defence Staff, Mrs Victoria Irabor, on Friday. Buhari speaks with Army Chief’s widow Meanwhile, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Sunday spoke on the telephone with Fati, the widow of  Attahiru. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, disclosed this in a statement titled ‘President Buhari speaks with Fati Attahiru, praises military’s efforts to fight terrorism and banditry.’ Recall that Buhari and Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo have come under criticisms for failing to attend the burial of the victims of the air crash in Abuja on Saturday. But Shehu said the President spoke with the widow on the telephone and described her late husband as an outstanding soldier and an institution builder, who fought valiantly for Nigeria until he breathed his last. Deborah Tolu-Kolawole, Amarachi Orjiude, Solomon Odeniyi, Stephen Angbulu,  Olufemi Olaniyi, Ibadan, Tunde Oyekola and Stephen Angbulu, Abuja Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com