THE All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party, have so far generated a combined total of N423.5 million from the sale of nomination forms for the November 6, 2021, Anambra State Governorship election. Of this amount, 16 PDP aspirants made up of 13 males and three females accounted for a total of N356m while the only three aspirants who have paid and obtained APC forms account for N67.5m. Figures calculated by our correspondent, in Abuja, on Monday, were arrived at after putting together amounts paid by aspirants in each of the two political parties. The opposition PDP pegged its expression of interest form at N1m, compliance form N5m and nomination form, N20m bringing the total amount paid by each of its 13 male aspirants at N26m. When put together, the male aspirants paid N338m. The three female aspirants were exempted from the paying the N20m nomination fee. They each paid N6m being the cost of expression of interest and compliance forms. The total amount paid by the women was N18m. Aspirants who paid for and obtained the PDP forms include: Dr. Obiora Okonkwo; Senator Uche Ekwunife; Mr. Chris Azubuogu; Wintson Udeh; Valentine Ozigbo; Godwin Ezeemo and Emeka Atiaba (SAN). Others include: Mrs. Genevieve; Chidi Onyemelekwe; Godwin Maduka; Ekwochi; Tony Nwoye; Ifedi Okwenna; Ugochukwu Uba; and Walter Okeke. For the APC, only three aspirants have so far paid for and obtained the party’s expression of interest and nomination forms being sold for N22.5m. Put together, the APC has so far garnered N67m. Those who have so far obtained the APC forms are: Senator Andy Uba, Dr. George Moghalu and an aspirant whose identity was yet to ascertained as at the time of filing this report. While the sale of forms has ended in the PDP, that of the APC is still on sale. When contacted, the PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan said, “Our party is a well-structured and organised platform. “Nigerians know this as you can also testify, we have concluded the sale of nomination forms for the Anambra Governorship election and arrangements are in top gar for our primary to elected a standard bearer.” A Gombe State chieftain of the APC, Abdullahi Jalo, is however of the opinion that the APC was not only well organised but prepared to win the forth coming Anambra governorship election. “The PDP is free to engage in wishful thinking. The APC is now more than ever before the party of choice for not only the people of Anambra State but Nigeria as a whole. The PDP should concern themselves with their internal squabbles and leave the APC alone.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com