GOMBE State Deputy Governor, Dr. Manasah Jatau, said boundary demarcations were not meant to severe existing relationship but for administrative purposes and convenience. The deputy governor made this remark during a sensitisation meeting on the permanent demarcation of Bauchi/Gombe Interstate Boundary Sector Two in Darazo LGA, Bauchi State. Jatau, who is also Chairman, Gombe State Boundary Committee, sued for restraint and calm between the affected communities, calling on them to continue with their existing inter-marriages, social and economic activities for sustainable growth and development. He noted that considerations of economic potentials in areas under questions tempted people to overreact without recourse to existing relationship, stressing that there was no amount of benefit that could compare to human life. He said, “People fight because of oil and other resources, but I assure you that Bauchi and Gombe will get their share, even foreigners shall benefit from it, as long as we live in peace and allow the activities continue.” In his remarks, the Deputy Governor of Bauchi State, Senator Baba Tela, said it was significant to demarcate the boundaries for the sake of convenience and stronger political stability, while socio-cultural and economic activities continued to flourish between the various interlinking communities. Tela noted that the chairmen of the affected local government areas and traditional rulers had a task of giving the people the right orientation about the true nature of work. In their separate remarks, the Emir of Dukku, Alhaji Haruna Abdulrasheed, represented by District Head of Kunde, Alhaji Bello Manga, and the Emir of Bauchi, AlhajiRilwanu Adamu, represented by Emir of Ganjuwa, Alhaji Baba Gidado, expressed happiness over the continuation of the demarcation of the Gombe-Bauchi Sector Two. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com