The family of one Henry Ahamefula has accused the Operation Puff Adder operatives of the Rivers State Police Command of illegally detaining its son and preventing him from going for the National Youth Service Corps programme. The father of the youth, Samuel Ahamefula, alleged that a policeman, identified simply as Francis, masterminded his son’s arrest after he mediated a fight involving the cop and a businessman in Chokocho, Etche Local Government Area of the state a fortnight ago. Samuel said despite reporting the matter to the police headquarters on Moscow Road in Port Harcourt, nothing had been done to free his son. He expressed fear that Henry, who had been mobilised for the NYSC scheme and posted to Imo State, might miss out on the programme if he remains in detention. The father stated, “Henry was arrested on Sunday, while he was about to move to the NYSC orientation camp in Imo State. I want the government to help secure his release, so that the boy’s chance will not be wasted. “While Henry was coming back, he saw the policeman and businessman fighting and started separating them. Did he do anything bad to separate people fighting? “When I asked the policeman where he kept my son, he said he didn’t know that I should go to Moscow Road. I went to Moscow Road and I didn’t see him. “It was about two or three days later that I discovered through signals that my son was at the base of the Operation Puff Adder in Aluu, Ikwerre LGA of the state.” On his part, a relative of the detainee, Temple Okere, accused Francis of terrorising the area and appealed to the state Commissioner of Police, Eboka Friday, to quickly intervene in the matter. When contacted, the spokesman for the command, Nnamdi Omoni, said if the matter was reported as Samuel claimed, action would have been taken. “If the matter was reported to the command, I’m sure that action would have been taken by now; otherwise, let him come and see me,” Omoni added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com