The police in Adamawa State have said it deployed no fewer than 1,207 personnel to ensure a hitch-free Eid-ei- Fitir Sallah celebration in the state. The state Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Suleiman Nguroje, stated this in Yola. He said, “The deployment is to ensure hitch-free Eid el Fitri celebrations and reduce crime before, during and after Sallah. Similarly, the Federal Road Safety Corps said on Tuesday 1,820 personnel had been deployed across the state to to ensure crash-free and smooth traffic flow during the celebration. This was contained in a statement by the Kano Sector Commander, Zubairu Mato. The statement said 16 patrol vehicles, three ambulances, and one heavy-duty tow trucks were also deployed for the week-long operation. ‘’ The objective of the Operation is to enhance FRSC visibility on the road with a view to reducing road crashes,” Mato said Also in Edo, the state police command deployed 3,410 personnel to mosques and recreation venues across the state to provide security. A statement by the command PPRO, SP Kontongs Bello, reads partly, “The command has massively deployed 3,410 policemen to mosques and recreation venues across the state. Also deployed are traffic personnel to ensure free flow of traffic especially in Benin City.” Likewise in Nasarawa, the police command deployed 4,500 personnel to cover major towns, Eid praying grounds and other pubic places in the state. The Commissioner of Police, Bola Longe, in a statement said, “Undercover operatives have also been deployed to nooks and crannies of the state for surveillance and information gathering. Meanwhile, the State Command of the FRSC also deployed 1,372 personnel to ensure free flow of traffic. The State Sector Commander, Shamsideen Sale made the disclosure in an exclusive interview with our correspondent. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com