The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on Thursday, urged Nigerians to show more understanding on the current security situation in the country. According to a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, the President made the appeal while speaking with State House correspondents shortly after observing the Eid prayers, marking the end of one-month-long Ramadan fast, at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The statement was titled, ‘President Buhari pledges action against bandits’ threat to national food security.’ Buhari was quoted as saying that “I expect Nigerians to be more understanding on the issues involved, looking at time and available resources. “For example, when we came in, in the North East, ask people in Adamawa and Borno States and the South-South in terms of security. “Without security, you can’t do anything. Our big surprise and disappointment is what is happening in the North West and we are dealing with it.” The President also appealed to the nation’s elite to show a better appreciation of the problems facing the country. “The elite should make the attempt to understand the military. If we order for weapons and armored vehicles, it takes time for the manufacturer. “It takes time to ship them and when brought here eventually, they are taken to training institutions, train the trainers before sending them to the field. This is a very long process,” the President explained. Buhari promised that his regime will use all available resources and manpower in dealing with bandits to ensure that they do not create havoc against access to farms and food production in the coming farming season. He said the menace of bandits and kidnappers would be addressed to ensure that the nation’s food security is not threatened. The President, who hoped for a good rainy season this year, said “the law enforcement agencies are working hard to regain confidence against bandits, so that we can go back to the land. This is very important. This is what the agencies are busy doing right now. We want people to go back to the land so that we can get enough food for the country and even export.” Explaining ongoing efforts to tackle the security situation in the country by the administration, Buhari drew attention to the series of long meetings held in recent weeks, chaired by him, saying that a part of resolutions had been made public by the National Security Adviser and the others kept secret. “With the resources and manpower available to us, we are working very hard. We are hoping Nigerians will understand the problem. Nigerians know at what stage we came in in 2015, what state we are today both on security and the economy and we are doing our best,” he said. He also commended the National Assembly for its support, saying that “the National Assembly is cooperating very well. Within the resources available, they are certainly giving us priority on our (military) requests.” The President and members of his family were joined for the Eid at the forecourt of the Presidential Villa by the President of the Senate, Ahmed Lawan; the Speaker, House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, cabinet members and the heads of security and intelligence agencies.