The Niger Delta Power Holding Company has announced the commencement of the construction of a 1×7.5MVA, 33/11kV injection distribution substation in Orogun, Delta State. It also announced that seven distribution transformers would be installed in various locations in the community to boost power supply to residents of the area. The Managing Director, NDPHC, Chiedu Ugbo, who disclosed this at the groundbreaking ceremony for injection substation, said the facility was an NDPHC/National Integrated Power Project intervention. He explained that the 1×7.5MVA 33/11KV injection substation would step down power from the already existing 33KV line to 11kV, adding that the project involved the construction of 4km of 11KV line to distribute the power to the community. Ugbo, in a statement issued in Abuja by the Head, Communication and Public Relations, NDPHC, Olufunke Nwankwo, said with the injection substation in place, faults on the downstream line would not be allowed to trip the entire network. He said the project followed the passionate intervention of the Deputy Senate President, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, to have the substation in the community. Ugbo said, “Following the intervention of the Deputy Senate President, we at NDPHC in keeping with our mandate to improve electricity infrastructure in Nigeria visited Orogun community for location inspection. “We discovered that electricity supply in the community is being fed by the old Agbaroh-Abraka 33KV line which transverse swampy terrain. “We also discovered that it is not adequate for the community, hence this intervention by NDPHC at the instance of the deputy Senate president.” He said the NDPHC had been engaging the Benin Electricity Distribution Company and had been assured by the Disco that the project aligned with infrastructure upgrade in the community. On his part, Omo-Agege said the Federal Government was making significant efforts to end energy poverty in Nigeria by facilitating the provision of electricity to rural communities across the country. “The objective has been to ensure that the number of people who use modern energy should increase to reduce social costs and to increase social benefits,” he said. He noted that the establishment of the power substation was one of the several initiatives of the administration aimed at addressing energy poverty across the country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com