During a stakeholders’ dialogue on Nigeria’s food system and food policy, organised by the ecological think tank, Health of Mother Earth Foundation, last week in Abuja, many of us came face to face with the sobering reality that our dear country lags behind in what could be described as the global balance of food power. Considering that we are one of the most populated countries in the developing world, with a massive agro-based informal sector, this is not supposed to be so. Not only are new digital technologies changing the face of agro-production, the monolithic information and communication technologies companies are also taking over food production and distribution from the hands of the small holder farmers. As you read this, the West’s big tech companies, Google, Apple, Facebook, Amazon and Microsoft are already amassing a large chunk of the portfolio of the world’s food sector. In China, it is Alibaba, which has been leading a wave of investments and takeovers by technology companies in the food system. Most recently, it was reported that it spent $3.6bn to acquire the country’s largest chain of hypermarkets. Hence, Alibaba is now a major player in China’s food distribution and retail sector. In India, similar moves were reportedly made by Amazon and Facebook, through the backdoor of e-commerce, to take over food distribution and retail in partnership with India’s wealthiest tycoons and the backing of the central government’s reforms. This was why early this year, millions of farmers in India took to the streets to protest their government’s attempt to impose reforms that would put them at the mercy of giant corporations. The poor farmers were on the streets for months, refusing to cower to the powers-that-be. However, Big Tech’s ambitions with food and agriculture go beyond China and India. They are global and extend to all aspects of the food system. The new term under which this is flown is digital agriculture – which entails a new rat race to collect as much data as they can from all nodes of the food system and to find ways to profit from this data. For instance, information about climate variability, precipitation trajectory, soil nutrition, seed variety, harvest cycle, topography influence, pest and disease index, farmer liquidity, market accessibility, government policy interface, extension options, storage nuance, among others, could be crunched with powerful algorithms in order to produce market-value data packets for corporate invasion. This new development is shaped by money and power, both of which the technology sector currently enjoys. And as these big names promote industrial agriculture and contract farming through digital agriculture platforms; agroecology and local food systems are undermined, with far-reaching severe consequences for small farmers in poor countries like Nigeria. Hence, this is the time for our farmers, environmentalists and corporate watchers to “shine our eyes”, because these efforts are mostly done under the table through corporate partnerships, mergers and takeovers, and “bureaucratic blindfold” aimed at corporate capture of the food system. Nnimmo Bassey of HOMEF argues that what Nigeria needs now in order to equip the food production sector is an integrated food policy. He said, “Research has shown that although there are many policies around aspects of agriculture in Nigeria, there is no organised policy that ties everything together. Officials work on silos and sometimes actively protect their turfs and appear not to care about the systemic implications of their stance. The link between seeds and plant varieties is downplayed while those protecting plant varieties do not worry about the origins of the varieties and the purposes for which anyone may wish to introduce them. “Our system overlooks the fact that small scale farmers are highly innovative and grossly underestimates their productivity. People wave off small scale farmers as the key to meeting the food needs of the world, ignoring the fact, for example, that pastoralists in the Sahel region produce 2 to 10 times more animal protein per square kilometer than farmers in Australia and the USA.” Meanwhile, while the digitalization of the agric sector has yet to creep into the open in our clime; there is already an overt maneuver by the global food giants to infiltrate the small holder agro sector in our country. This is through a bill – known as the Plant Variety Protection Bill – that has already been passed by the National Assembly and which may get signed into law. Some stakeholders believe that if signed into law, this bill will spell doom for our agriculture and farming systems. The PVP bill aligns with the International Convention for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants, which is known by its French (translation) acronym, UPOV. Adopted in Paris in 1961, and revised in 1972, 1978 and 1991, the UPOV is for protection of new varieties of plants by an intellectual property right. By codifying intellectual property for plant breeders, the Convention aims to encourage the development of new varieties of plants. Protection can be obtained for a new plant variety however it has been obtained, e.g. through conventional breeding techniques or genetic engineering (GMOs method). This is why stakeholders opposed to the corporate takeover of our food system are worried that the PVP bill is trying to open the backdoor for GMOs invasion of Nigeria. Nonetheless, my take is that UPOV’s, and potentially PVP Bill’s, focus on patents for plant varieties will hurt small holder farmers because it will not allow them to use saved seed, which they have been used to for time immemorial. It is obvious that these mechanisms support an agricultural system that is export-oriented. And, just like I have depicted in this column in past articles, we are victims of some high level international trade politics whereby the tail wags the dog. How come, the fate of the people who produce the resources are put in the hands of those who consume their products? For instance, the International Cocoa Council is run by importers of cocoa, who dictate the price of cocoa for the producers of cocoa (to export to them)! In other words, developing countries moving towards UPOV-consistent systems tend to favour breeders who are producing for export. The example of Kenya is telling in this regard, as UPOV’s own study points out, the majority of varieties are owned by foreign producers and are horticultural crops, clearly destined for export. Experts assert that an over-heavy dependence on agriculture for export is unwise. In Nigeria, agriculture is our highest employer of labour, and so it is highly unpatriotic to deny the citizens of their meal tickets. According to Bassey, UPOV was formulated without the participation of African countries and designed by “countries where agriculture is a business rather than a way of life”. The challenge is that the PVP bill is already on the President’s table and could be signed into law at any time. Therefore, this is the time for well-meaning Nigerians to demand that the bill be withdrawn and returned to the drawing board for real public consultations and inclusion of the views of small-scale farmers who risk being criminalized through the legislation. Nigeria needs an omnibus law that covers plants, animals, and fishes. Rather than approaching food in silos, promoting the interest of seed oligarchs and speculators, we should be looking at how to create spaces for the celebration of traditional ecological knowledge and technologies and at how to amplify our traditional diets and cuisine. As a research commissioned by HOMEF has shown, government should ensure that food policies are coherent, implementable and that they address the challenges in the food sector. Farmers, consumers, and other stakeholders in the food sector, especially at the Local Government level, should fully participate in decision and policy making in this regard. gregodogwu@yahoo.com 08063601665 Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com