When was the first time you knew you wanted to become a footballer? I have always had passion for football. As a kid, while playing on the street and in school with my friends, I started nursing the desire of playing football professionally. After I was privileged to watch the Nigeria national team playing, I started having the ambition of playing for Nigeria. But, where I come from, the environment was not conducive for one to combine football and education. However, beyond the passion, if one wants to play football at the highest level, one must possess a certain level of intelligence. Playing football is not just about kicking the ball into the net or running about on the field. When it comes to football, there is a bit of mathematics involved. Before one makes passes, one has to so some ‘spatial calculations’ and know how much force to apply on the ball so it would get to where one wants it to go. These days, parents even encourage their children to play football but it was not so back in the days. What was the initial reaction of your parents when you said you wanted to become a footballer? My father played football as well, so when it comes to football, you can say it runs in our family. Some of my uncles were also good players and I used to enjoy watching them while I was growing up. However, they never had the opportunity to play on a bigger platform. But at that time, football was not considered to be a way out for a lot of people. However, as the game continued to grow, more awareness occurred and people began to realise that through football, they could make it big. Now, many parents want their kids to play football, and that is not a bad idea. But unfortunately, not everybody can play football. In my time, our parents wanted us to focus more on schooling, graduate and get jobs. Anyway, the important thing is for one to be focused, believe in whatever one is doing and make the best out of opportunities. What are some of the personal qualities that helped you get to the top of your career? As a player, I was very determined, and I had the desire to succeed. I’m not scared of failing, neither do I worry about people rejecting me. I have been rejected many times but that never discouraged me or weighed me down. I believe that whatever I am doing, I can make it, as long as I remain focused, disciplined and hardworking. However, that seems to missing in many young players nowadays. They prefer to have contacts (that would provide them with connections) instead of working hard. They don’t know that having contacts can only take them to a certain point. It is hard work that would actually take them far. When there are obstacles and challenges, it is one’s hard work that would ‘present’ one to people that would help one. For some of us that have played and are still connected to the game, our main objective is to use every avenue to educate young ones that hard work and discipline are very important. I am a reserved person but I cannot be pushed aside easily. I don’t take ‘no’ for an answer. I often tell myself that everything is possible if one remains focused and works hard. It is also very important to be patient. At different times, you have been a player and a coach. Which do you prefer? I prefer both. As a player, I played my part and did all that God and injuries permitted me to do. Now, I am focused on my coaching career. These days, I only play with friends, and not to compete. I play to keep fit. What would you say are the qualities that are needed for a coach to succeed? The qualities a coach needs to succeed are constantly evolving. As a coach, the most important thing is for one to know that one is managing people. One is responsible for managing the person that takes care of the ball, the person that cleans the dressing room, the person that washes the players’ jerseys and others. One is not just coaching to win a game, one is also coaching everybody connected to the game. One is managing the environment as well, because there are seen and unseen circumstances that surround the environment one is in. Having said that, every individual is different and the qualities they possess differ. However, as a coach, it is very important to educate oneself, and get all the necessary licenses that would enable one to coach from the lowest level to the highest. In the course of coaching, one would gain more experience. Of course, one would make mistakes but one should have the capacity to correct them. What are the fondest memories you have of your childhood? I grew up with my grandparents. I lived with them from the age of four till I was 10 and I moved to Lagos. That was where my ‘football madness’ started. Whenever I was sent on errands, I would first play football before going to buy what I was sent. I am grateful to God, my parents and all the friends I grew up with. For one to succeed, one needs good people around one. Even if it’s for bad, one would learn lessons from it. For me, I’m grateful for every moment, I’m grateful that I was opportune to play for the Nigerian national team. Of course, I started with Osjad (now defunct), which was the first youth team I played with in Mushin, Lagos. Back then, we used to train at Ikeja Grammar School, Lagos. I tried to build relationships during my childhood and the good thing is that, I still spend time with some of my childhood friends whenever I am in Nigeria. From a young age, I learnt the importance of being humble. What were your childhood ambitions? I had always dreamt that I wanted to play football. Sometimes, I would leave school to watch football matches. I also recall that I participated in the Lagos State Sports Festival. I represented Lagos at the U-13 and U-18 levels. I always knew I wanted to play football and at a point, I got admission to study Business Administration but I had to jettison it to pursue my football career. It was shortly after that I joined Julius Berger Football Club. That means you had to forfeit your admission? Yes, it was around that time that Julius Berger offered to sign me to the club. I had some doubts about what to do but I eventually joined Julius Berger. Away from football for a bit, how did you meet your wife? My wife is Spanish and I met her in Santander (Spain). I met her when we (Nigerian team) played against Racing de Santander before the 1994 World Cup. A colleague in the team, Mutiu Adepoju, was also playing in Santander then, and it was through him I met my wife. She was a friend to Mutiu’s wife. When I eventually joined Barcelona Football Club (also in Spain), we continued our relationship. Today, we have two kids. What are the qualities that endeared you to her? I don’t like to talk about that. For me, it is not all about (external) qualities. What is more important is how ‘human’ the person is. That is what I am more concerned about, not external qualities. Was your family happy when you made it known that you wanted to marry a foreigner? The decision of getting married to whoever I wanted was up to me, not my parents. I knew that my wife was not going to live with my parents, so the important thing was the happiness of both of us. Footballers often have to travel and stay away from their families for long periods. How have you been able to cope in that regard? When God gives one a partner, it would not matter whether the person is beautiful or ugly. It is more about how understanding the person is. In situations like that (when one has to travel), one needs a partner that is understanding. In a long while, this is the first time I have spent such a long time with my kids and family. I am always moving as a player and coach. But, the COVID-19 pandemic put a lull on sporting activities. However, my wife knows the nature of my job. She knows that I could be at home one day and have to travel the next day, sometimes at short notice. Footballers make a lot of money. But, some of them go back to being broke. What do you think causes that and how can it be better managed? Unfortunately, such things happen. Sadly, in this part of the world, people are not always honest. It is a place where one could invest in something and later find out that the people one is dealing with are not honest. That is one of the reasons many ex-players have this issue of being broke. But, that does not mean one should distrust everybody that comes one’s way because there are still good people out there. However, the new generation of players must learn from the mistakes of their older colleagues. I don’t think there is anybody that would like to go back to zero level after struggling for many years. It should also be noted that many footballers are not business savvy. For a business to succeed, one needs to work with good business managers. On another hand, it is unfortunate that many people prefer to live large. They want to live big, drive exotic cars and impress people. But at the end of the day, those things never work. I hate to see players who cannot even feed themselves after dedicating their lives to the game. One does not need to live large to impress people. But, it’s very important to take care of one’s family. You were named the ‘African Player of the Year’ in 1994. What impact did that recognition have on your career? It was indeed a great moment for me. I was not expecting it because at that time, there were great players such as Rashidi Yekini, George Weah, Tony Yeboah and Titi Camara. Back then, I was even playing in Egypt, not Europe. I am forever grateful for the opportunity and privilege to have been a one-time ‘African Footballer of the Year’. As players, we all aspire to be the best on our continent, so I was happy. The first time Nigeria went to the World Cup was in 1994 and you were privileged to be part of that team. How was that experience? I think the World Cup also inspired most of us to demonstrate our quality, and it afforded us the possibility for people to realise that Nigeria has a good team and good players. Unfortunately, we lost to Italy because we were inexperienced. Every player wants to be at the World Cup and I felt privileged to have been at that competition. You scored the final goal at the 1996 Olympics. How did that make you feel? I felt great and happy about it. When we won the Olympics, nobody expected that we would win the tournament. Also, looking at the teams that made it to the semi-finals, many people thought it would be won by Brazil and Argentina. But, we worked very hard and we won the competition. I felt blessed and privileged to have scored in the final, particularly because the goal gave us the medal as the first African country to win the Olympics. How would you describe your experience as the coach of the Golden Eaglets? It was a very good experience. It was not an easy job due to the peculiarity of the job and the environment we operate in, but it was quite an experience for me. The job afforded me the opportunity to handle things from a different perspective. I enjoyed my time there and I thank the players I worked with (for cooperating with me). I am a demanding coach. I often push myself and the players I work with. I am happy that some of them are growing, and I pray that those still playing would be recognised. During your time with the Super Eagles, who were your closest friends on the team? There were many of them. When we joined the team, we were young, and there were senior players like Stephen Keshi, Augustine Eguavoen, Samson Siasia, and Rashidi Yekini. However, my closest friends then were Finidi George, Ike Shorunmu, Mutiu Adepoju and Sunday Oliseh. You coached in Tanzania and lived in the country for a while. How would you describe your experience there? My experience was great. I am grateful to God and the Tanzanian Football Federation for giving me the opportunity to serve them and the people of that country. Ultimately, we were able to achieve our objective. Even when nobody believed we were going to qualify for the African Cup of Nations we went ahead and qualified. Like I have always said, the players were very amazing and they were able to change their minds, believing that qualifying is achievable. Over the years, you have had cause to complain that many big clubs seem to snub black (African) coaches. Why do you think 80 and how can it be changed? The situation can be improved. The world has evolved but unfortunately we (black people) are being disregarded in our areas of expertise. Also, in saner climes, there are lots of resources to help coaches. For example, the Spanish football federation organises coaching courses. They create an enabling environment for their citizens to attend the courses, learn and improve their skills. If we cannot develop our people here in Nigeria, we need to ask ourselves what leadership is all about. The coaches from western countries that are praised by Nigerians did not just wake up and become coaches. I was privileged to attend the same courses most of the coaches went to, and I saw how they were taught about the things that are expected from them. We also have to create that (conducive) environment in Nigeria. It is easier for people to comment, “Nigerian coaches are not good”. But they also need to ask themselves—what resources have been availed them to perform optimally? I am privileged to live in Spain and I can afford to attend standard and well-organised coaching courses but how many coaches back home can afford that? We really need to develop coaches in this part of the world and give them opportunities. If we don’t develop our own people, nobody would develop them for us. Despite the big grammar we speak in Africa (on this issue), we do not seem to be ready. The Union of European Football Associations does all sorts of programmes to develop their own. It is easy to complain that a particular coach is not good. But, we need to face the truth and ask if they get adequate training. We need to groom the next generation and let them understand that there are processes to success. But, if there is no conducive environment and people are not given opportunities, how would they grow? We need to reflect and think about what we really want in terms of football management. I don’t want the next generation to go through what I did. Globally, the game is changing and we need to adapt to those changes. I was privileged to attend a Confederation of African Football course, and I recall that people like Festus Onigbinde and the late Shuaibu Amodu were trying to create new instructors because they realised that they would not be there forever. When God puts one in a position, there is a reason for it. Nobody is perfect but one must try as much as possible to create a standard, so that the people coming after would have a platform to build on. We cannot just say we want to win the World Cup. We have to work towards it. Even countries like Argentina that have won the competition in the past are still finding it difficult to reenact that feat because the game is evolving. Other countries are growing and they are developing their players. But in Nigeria, before one is given a job, they would want to know which tribe one hails from, or which connection one has. Without mincing words, I can tell you that is a big problem. What changes would you like to see in the Nigerian football space? Firstly, we have to improve our league. Shehu Dikko (the chairman of the National League Management Company) is trying but it is not easy for him and the people running the league. There is always room for improvement. We need to be able to accommodate young players in the league. I recall that I joined Julius Berger as a young player. Even without playing professionally prior to that time, they signed me. In the same vein, opportunities have to be created so that young players can be accommodated in the league. They might not be relevant immediately, but as time goes on, they would mature and learn. And, when the older ones are fading out, they (young players) would be in a position to replace them. In the nineties, we won the Olympics and participated in the World Cup. There is no crime if we go back again to win the Olympics and also have a good outing at the World Cup. But, to win it, we have to do the necessary things that would help us win such prestigious competitions. The good thing is that there are many talented young players out there and we have to find a way to manage and drive them to achieve success. Having being a player and coach on different continents, how do you think local football clubs and leagues can be best developed? When a standard league is created, it would not matter if the players have ‘big’ names or not. When there is equity, justice and fairness, people would find it attractive, and even investors would come. It is true that the European league is the dominant one now but we also have footballers from Nigeria playing in Europe. The bottom line is that we need to create more opportunities for the younger generation so that they can grow and become better players. How do you unwind? If I want to relax when I’m in Spain, I spend time with my kids. I usually take them to school. After school, I take them for sports (training) and other activities. But if I’m in Nigeria, I usually hang out with friends. I play football with people I grew up with or other teams I belong to—FESTAC All Stars and Abuja All Stars. I am not really the clubbing type. That does not mean I don’t go to clubs, but it is something I am not particularly interested in. How do you like to dress? I like to dress simply and casually. There is nothing special about my dressing. You mentioned that you take your children for sports training. Are they footballers too? They are not footballers yet but they like the game. The important thing is for them to combine their studies and the game. Here (in Spain), one can effectively combine football and schooling. However, I did not force any of my children to play football. I wanted it to come from them naturally because when it comes from them, they would know they have a personal responsibility towards it. But if people are forced to certain things, it would seem like they are being pushed to go beyond their limits. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com