What is pneumonia? For the layman, we say anytime you have germs that are multiplying in the lungs, that is pneumonia. The medicine language, which says exactly the same thing but using medical terminology, is inflammation of the lungs. Inflammation just means germs are multiplying. Are there specific places one can pick up these germs or are they everywhere? The germs float in the air, so you can’t see them with the naked eye. You can only see them with a microscope. The air we breathe is not germ-free, so you breathe air plus germs, and then if your body’s natural immunity is able to hold back the germs from multiplying, you don’t even know anything happened. But sometimes, these germs overpower the body’s defence system and that is when you have pneumonia. When we talk about germs, there are many types of germs. We call them microbes, that is, microscopic organisms. There are also viruses of which there are so many types. Similarly, there are many types of bacteria, fungi and parasites. So, when we say germs or microorganisms, they are in the millions. What are some of the symptoms of pneumonia? The commonest one is cough. All chest complaints, whether it’s asthma, tuberculosis or cancer of the lungs, have cough as a common symptom. With pneumonia, there is also fever and chest pain. Some people can be breathless. Having said that, the beauty of medicine is that, sometimes, people don’t show all these symptoms. The only symptoms they show may just be cough. Sometimes, the only symptom they show is just pain. Sometimes, the only symptom they show is a fever or cough. Sometimes, especially in the elderly, they may not show cough, have fever or chest pain, they just show confusion. You just see an elderly person who is confused; it could be pneumonia. The training to be a doctor is to recognise the cough of pneumonia from that of TB, asthma or cancer of the lungs, because they all present with cough. How do you diagnose pneumonia? The first thing is history. By history, we mean the patient tells you what is wrong with him: “I can’t breathe. I have a fever. I have a cough. I have chest pain.” In essence, the patient tells you his complaints. Then we do what we call a physical examination. Most people see doctors carrying stethoscopes and putting it on the chest. That is what we call physical examination. Sometimes, with history and examination, you can confirm that it is pneumonia. Sometimes, it’s not quite clear, then you go ahead and do tests. The tests will include X-ray of the chest, blood test, and if they are coughing up sputum, you can take the sputum to the lab. Those three are the most important ones. How dangerous can pneumonia be if left untreated? We can’t generalise. It can be very severe that it kills the patient. It can also be so mild that the patient doesn’t even go to a hospital. The patient says, “I have a little cough,” and it just wears off. It’s a balance between the infecting germ, how bad the germ is, and the body’s defence against the germ. So, what a patient feels is the balance between the germ fighting to establish itself within the lungs and the body’s defence trying to defend itself against the germ. We all have different defences; there are different kinds of germs with different kinds of power. But of course, I am just talking in layman’s terms. In medicine, there is nothing like that. The word we use in medicine is virulence, so it depends on the virulence of the microorganism and the body’s ability to defend itself against that particular organism. That determines how severe it is, so it is variable. Is pneumonia contagious? Not usually, but if somebody has pneumonia and coughs the sputum onto a surface and that sputum dries up, the germ that caused the pneumonia can float in the air and infect other people. So, usually, it is not contagious, but in a few instances, it can be, depending on the nature of the organism that is causing it. For instance, we all know about COVID-19; that is contagious because it is a virus. If you are just breathing in and out, the virus comes out, unlike some other germs that don’t come out when you breathe in and out. Again, it depends on the organism causing the pneumonia. Some are contagious and some are not. Coughing is a symptom that pneumonia and COVID-19 have in common. How can one distinguish between the two or is it something you can only do when you visit the hospital? Correct. In fact, COVID-19 is a type of pneumonia. Now, it is one thing to distinguish bacterial pneumonia from viral pneumonia or fungal pneumonia and so on. But to ascertain the type of fungal pneumonia or bacterial pneumonia, for instance, is another thing altogether because bacteria and viruses are in their millions. That is what training to be a doctor is all about. Sometimes, a doctor may not be sure and he has to refer to a higher doctor, what we call a specialist, who will then distinguish. So, it is not something a layman can do. Sometimes, you even need a specialist chest doctor to distinguish the kind of pneumonia it is. Is pneumonia deadly? Yes, if untreated. But that does not mean that everybody who has pneumonia will die because like I said earlier on, it is a fight because the germ or organism causing the pneumonia and the body defending itself. It is like two factors fighting, which is winning? If the body is winning, you may not even go to hospital. But if the germ is winning, then you are very sick and if you don’t go to hospital, it will kill you. Who is most at risk of pneumonia? Little children, the under-fives, are most at risk because their defence is still not strong, and the elderly, because their defence is weakening. Then people with other chest complaints are at risk, for instance, if you have human immunodeficiency virus, are diabetic, have an infection elsewhere in the body, drink a lot of alcohol, have liver disease or have kidney disease. What treatment is available for people with pneumonia? It is very simple. That is what we call antibiotics. There are a million and one antibiotics. How common is pneumonia in Nigeria? I can say, in a week, I may see two or three patients with pneumonia. It is very common – some mild, some moderate, some severe. How can pneumonia be prevented? That is a good point, but it is difficult to do. The first one is good, well-ventilated houses. When you talk about ventilated houses, security comes in. You know, most times, you close your windows and doors for added security, but that again is in favour of pneumonia, so you have to balance it. When buildings are too close to one another, it is also in favour of pneumonia. But it is easier said than done. People build houses so close together. So, if houses are far apart, well-ventilated, and there is good security such that you can, in theory, leave your doors and windows open and go to sleep, that helps. But we know, in our own situation, you can’t do that. You have to lock up the whole place. Then dust and smoke. Dust is a problem for people moving on untarred roads, which raise dust and carries germs. Another cause is smoky cars, machines and vehicles, which points to the need for maintenance. So, you see that most of it is outside medicine. Is it the doctors or medical practitioners that will make sure the roads are tarred? Is it the doctors and medical practitioners that will make sure that houses are spaced out like in government reserved areas? Is it the doctors or medical practitioners that will make sure everybody services his car, the public buses and diesel vehicles are well-maintained, and generators, especially industrial generators, don’t emit smoke? Those pollutants carry germs, which cause pneumonia. Also, ideally, your kitchen, depending on what you use to cook, should not be near living spaces because of the smoke. If you live in a face-me-I-face-you, where people sometimes cook with kerosene along the corridor, that exposes one to pneumonia. So, ideally, in a good place, we should all have electric cookers so that there is no burning anything bringing in smoke, but that is a tall order. If you have no choice but to use firewood or kerosene, you use it. But the prevention of pneumonia is outside medicine and the doctors and more of government regulation and personal choice. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com