The Federal Ministry of Aviation on Tuesday commenced assessment of a made-in-Nigeria helicopter as part of measures to ensure the smooth inauguration of the project. Officials of the aviation ministry and its agencies visited NASENI Solar Energy Limited where the helicopter hanger and helipad were housed in Abuja for on-site assessment and evaluation of the helicopter. The Assistant Chief Information Officer, NASENI, Chinyere Ekwuazi, said in a statement issued in Abuja that the target of the Federal Government was to inaugurate the helicopter before the end of the current administration. The Executive Vice Chairman, NASENI, Maiwalima Haruna, who was represented during the assessment programme by the Managing Director, NASENI Solar Energy Limited, Mahmoud Jaffaru, said the agency was ready to accept suggestions and support from the aviation ministry. He said such support would lead to the successful completion of the project within the timeframe given to the agency by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Haruna said it was the desire of the agency to manufacture made-in- Nigeria helicopter that would be of international standard and help in boosting the nation’s economy. He said NASENI had massive land mass that would accommodate all the operational activities required for the manufacturing of the aircraft. Haruna was quoted as saying, “We have expertise for developing the helicopter and we do things according to laid-down rules. We are ready to work with you to achieve this project.” The Deputy Director, Engineering Infrastructure, Emmanuel Ajani, said NASENI entered into partnership with Dynali Helicopter Company, Thins, Belgium, to develop the helicopter and had trained its engineers for the take off the project in Nigeria. Buhari had approved the project on January 26, 2021 and directed NASENI to complete the production of a made-in-Nigeria helicopter before the end of his tenure. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com