THE Senator Bukola Saraki-led Peoples Democratic Party Reconciliation Committee and Strategic Committee, on Wednesday met with and reconciled warring chieftains of the party in the Lagos State chapter of the party. The party leader, Chief Bode George, and chairman of the chapter, Deji Doherty, embraced truce and promised to work jointly for the party’s victory in future elections. The reconciliation meeting which was held at the Southern Sun Hotel, Ikoyi, lasted for over four hours. Members of the Saraki-led panel who took part in the are: former Governors Liyel Imoke (Cross River), Ibrahim Dankwambo(Gombe), Ibrahim Shema(Kaduna); Mulikat Adeola-Akande) and Linus Okorie. Lagos PDP chieftains at the peace parley included the secretary, Muiz  Dosunmu, former acting national secretary, Remi Akitoye, Senator Kofo Akerele-Bucknor, Lai Ogunbambi, Uthman Shodipe, and Otunba Okanlawon. A source privy to discussions at the meeting said, the discussions “were frank and leaders spoke their minds to one another without inhibitions, in the end, they all agreed to work together in the interest of the party.” It was agreed that George should be accorded the respect of the party leader, a decision which was upheld. Saraki, who spoke with reporters after the meeting, urged the warring chieftains to sheathe their swords, jettison bitterness and adorn a forgiving spirit in the interest of the party. He said: “We’ve seen committed of PDP members in Lagos to bury their differences and understand that the call of majority of Lagosians to have PDP in government is more important than their own individual differences. “We have reconciled the party leaders today and they are ready to dissipate their energies to push the agenda of the PDP for Lagos State. We are happy to see that.” “We must present ourselves as a serious party. The differences for many months have been buried and that shows people are committed now to make the party attractive to new people who wants to join the party.” It was also gathered that the panel is also putting in place a strategy to reconcile the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike and former Niger State Governor, Babangida Aliyu, who have been engaged in a public spat over party issues. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com