Operatives of the Ogun State Police Command have arrested four members of an armed robbery gang for allegedly hijacking a truckload of Golden Penny Flour on the Sagamu/Ijebu-Ode Expressway. The suspects, Eze Sopruchuckwu, 34; Eze Edeh, 29; Olalekan Muritala, 44; and Samuel Johnson, 32,  reportedly tied the driver and the motor boy’s hands to their backs, gagged their mouths and took  away the truck and its content. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this in a statement on Monday. Oyeyemi said, “The suspects were arrested following a report lodged at the Ikenne Divisional Police Headquarters that a truck with number plate ANG 57 LG, loaded with 600 bags of Golden Penny Flour, and driven by one Ahmed Tiamiyu was hijacked along the expressway. “The truck was hijacked while the driver and his motor boy were taken into the bush, where their hands were tied to their backs and their mouths taped, before the truck and the flour were taken away by the suspects. “Upon the report, the Commissioner of Police, Edward Ajogun, directed that the case be transferred to the Special Enquiry Bureau at the state headquarters, Eleweran, for discreet investigation.” Oyeyemi stated that the squad, led by DSP Ade Akiti, swung into action and embarked on technical and intelligence-based investigation. He said, “Their efforts paid off when one of the suspects was traced to Ikorodu in Lagos State and promptly arrested. “His arrest led to the arrest of three others, while 175 bags of Golden Penny Flour were recovered from the warehouse of the gang leader, Eze Anthony.” The PPRO added that the CP commended the painstaking investigation done by the team and ordered that the remaining members of the gang must be apprehended and brought to justice. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com