Olamide, 24, had suffered two stillbirths and is now ready to give all it takes to keep her first live birth, a male child. She got pregnant in September 2020, and by estimation, she was meant to put to bed by June 2021, but her bag of water broke on March 23. “I was at the antenatal clinic on that day and when I got home, I didn’t do anything, I just slept; but when I woke up, I saw water on my body; and I rushed to the hospital,” she told our correspondent. However, her cervix did not dilate as expected after spending three nights at the hospital located around her residence. Her doctors therefore referred her to Ayinke House, within the premises of the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Ikeja. “When I got here, I was told I might deliver vaginally or through caesarean section. My cervix was not opening up and the experts advised that I should go for CS otherwise, the baby might have an infection. Thankfully, the CS was successful,” she narrated. When she delivered, her son weighed just 1.2kg at birth and his low weight made him very fragile. Fortunately, taking care of premature babies is not new to the team of experts at the Special Care Baby Unit of LASUTH. Babies who develop problems or are born preterm in the hospital are taken to the ward for adequate care, and about 70 percent of babies they take care of on the ward are preterm babies — that is, babies born alive before 37th week of pregnancy. The World Health Organisation places Nigeria third among the 10 countries with the highest number of preterm births, with 773,600 of such cases per annum. Top on the list are India with 3,519,100; and China 1,172,300. Pakistan is fourth with 748,100; followed by Indonesia 675,700; United States of America 517,400; Bangladesh 424,100; Philippines 348,900; Democratic Republic of the Congo 341,400; and Brazil 279,300. “Every year, an estimated 15 million babies are born too early — that is more than one in 10 babies,” WHO noted. Meanwhile, Olamide’s baby was put in an incubator and his weight gradually rose to 1.345kg.On April 6, 2021, the doctors and nurses took him out of the incubator and bundled him against his mother’s chest for Kangaroo Mother Care. Usually, the incubator is set to a certain temperature to help the baby to maintain the required body temperature, while the baby is fed with breast milk and given a drip right inside the medical device. The number of days that a baby stays in the incubator depends on its weight and activeness before it is finally taken out for the commencement of KMC. “The mother will have preterm breast milk, which is different in its constituents, compared to what the breast milk will be by the time the baby is term. Preterm milk is initially higher in protein, fat, free amino acids and sodium, but over the first few weeks following delivery these levels decrease. “We help the mother to massage whatever few drops of breast milk we can get; and though usually watery, it is full of protection and antibodies. So, those few drops will be put in the baby’s mouth and it protects the baby against bacteria,” a Consultant Paediatrician with a special interest in neonatology at LASUTH, Dr. Zainab Imam, told PUNCH HealthWise. Explaining further, the paediatrician said that preterm babies weighing less than 1.5kg are too small to maintain their own body temperatures in an open room, even if they are dressed up, because they don’t have the subcutaneous fat that helps to keep humans warm normally. “When they weigh less than 1.5kg, the ideal thing is to manage them in an incubator where the temperature helps the babies to maintain their body temperature and we give them drips. “Another thing we have started doing is feeding the baby as quickly as possible. Such babies should start eating within the first 24 hours of being born. So, we try to help the mother — whether she had CS or not — by massaging whatever few drops of the breast milk we can get,” she said. Employing Kangaroo Mother Care For preterm, low-birth-weight babies KangarooMother Care is a method of care for preterm infants. The method involves infants being carried, usually by the mother, with skin-to-skin contact. The baby’s bare chest is put against the mother’s bare chest and wrapped around with a wrapper and then the mother puts on her clothes over that. For the continuous skin-to-skin care of the baby, the baby wears only a diaper, socks, and a cap, then the baby’s chest and stomach is gently placed against the mother’s chest — between her breasts; and a wrapper is used to tie the baby before she wears her cloth. “In that position, the mother is able to give the baby the required warmth and the baby is close to the mother’s breast; so, it’s easy to go for breast milk if the baby wants it and the baby going through KMC gains weight faster, and is less likely to have an infection. “And because of the contact, the baby feels the mother’s breathing and heartbeats and the baby’s rhythm follows the mother’s breathing. The process is really easy,” Dr. Imam said. When PUNCH HealthWise visited Olamide a week after she commenced the KMC procedure, she was elated that her baby had gained weight. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com