A human rights organisation, the Genius Eyes International Foundation for the Hopeless, has petitioned the Imo State Commissioner of Police, Abutu Yaro, over the alleged defilement of a 14-year-old girl by two siblings, Chigozie and Promise Emegha. The petition, which was signed by the founder and Chief Executive Officer of the foundation, Paulcy Iwuala, said apart from defiling the girl, who hails from Imerienwe in the Ngor Okpala Local Government Area of the state, the siblings also impregnated her. The human rights activist, who briefed journalists in Owerri on Tuesday, said the victim had been delivered of a set of twins following the defilement. Iwuala, who said the girl was helpless, alleged that the mother of the suspects sent the girl, who was her maid, packing when she realised that she was pregnant. Iwuala said, “We are a human rights group and we seeking nothing but justice for the poor girl. This is a copy of a petition we addressed to the Imo State Commissioner of Police urging him to help us and the society get justice for this poor, voiceless and helpless girl, who was defiled and impregnated by her madam’s two grown-up sons. “The two grown-up sons are Chigozie Emegha, who is married with three daughters, and Promise Emegha, who just finished his secondary school education. They hail from Imerienwe in the Ngor Okpala Local Government Area of Imo State. “The defilement has left the poor girl, who has no father but a poor mother and seven siblings, with a set of twins. She was delivered of a set of twins (a boy and a girl) on April 19, 2021, at a local health centre in Ubomiri, Mbaitoli Local Government Area of the state. “The poor girl was sent packing by her madam immediately she realised that the girl had become pregnant as a result of defilement by her two sons. The girl and her newly-born twins are without help except for the little our organisation is doing to assist them.” The victim told journalists that her madam’s two grown-up sons defiled her separately within 48 hours in 2020 and their mother sent her packing after she realised “that my body shape had changed and my breasts were becoming bigger.” “She knows that her sons slept with me. I told her and her eldest son, who is a pastor, caught Chigozie on the first day that he forcefully slept with me,” she stated. When contacted, the police spokesman in the state, Orlando Ikeokwu, said the command would swiftly act on the petition once it was received. “The state Commissioner of Police, Abutu Yaro, has zero tolerance for crimes. Rest assured that the CP will work on the petition once it is received. Defilement is a serious crime under our laws and be assured again that the CP will do justice to the petition once it is received,” Ikeokwu stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com