Human rights activist, Aisha Yesufu, on Thursday, lambasted Mrs. Remi Tinubu, wife of All Progressives Congress chieftain, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, for displaying disgusting arrogance on Wednesday when she called a woman, a thug during a public hearing of the constitutional review. Yesufu made this known in an interview with The PUNCH on Thursday. The PUNCH had earlier reported that viral video showed that the Senator representing Lagos Central was involved in a shouting match with some Nigerians who attended the event at the Marriot Hotel in Lagos. Tinubu is leading the Senate Committee on Review of the 1999 Constitution in the South-West. However, there was a ruckus when a yet-to-be-identified woman was denied entry into the venue. The woman, who protested her exclusion from the venue, was flayed by Mrs. Tinubu for being “rude”. Some Nigerians at the scene subsequently asked the senator to apologise to her but Mrs. Tinubu said, “I will not apologise for what I said. I saw it and I said it.” Reacting, Yesufu said, “It’s so much disgusting arrogance from a Senator who is an elected official to speak to citizens in that manner and this is not the first time Remi Tinubu is doing this. She looks down on people. I’m sure she is used to people who come to her, rolling on the floor and she thinks everybody will bow before her family. That is why she keeps on carrying this arrogance around. “It is good that the citizens called her out there and asked her to apologise and this is what needs to happen, we need to bring down this arrogance that these politicians have. “What has been her contribution since she has been in the Senate? What has she contributed to national issues? What has she contributed to women issues? Nothing. She is just there just because she is there. People who get to power out of tokenism have this kind of arrogance that comes from emptiness. It is absolutely annoying and disgraceful that she behaves that way not knowing that she is there to serve the people.” Mrs. Tinubu has had similar encounters since she became a Senator in 2011. Just recently, she censured her colleague from Kogi State, Senator Smart Adeyemi, for expressing concern over the worsening security situation of the country. Adeyemi had during a plenary session said that Nigeria was facing the worst instability since the civil war but Mrs. Tinubu interrupted him and tagged him a wolf in sheep clothing for allegedly speaking like an opposition. Also in July 2016, Tinubu clashed with Senator Dino Melaye from Kogi State which saw both lawmakers calling each other unprintable names and charging at each other. In 2015, Tinubu earned the rebuke of the Peoples Democratic Party senators when she stood up to speak while standing in the corner of the then Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu.