The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu and other leaders of the party in South-West have visited the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), over the death of Nigeria’s Chief of Air Staff, Attahiru Ibrahim, and other military officers in a plane crash. The Presidency made this known in a tweet on Monday. Among others that visited are Chief Bisi Akande and Chief Segun Osoba, Gen. Alani Akinrinade, and Chief Pius Akinyelure. Earlier, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), said the deaths of Attahiru and 10 other military officers have increased Nigeria’s security challenge. He regretted that the bad incident happened at a time the country is battling security challenges. Buhari spoke, on Monday, when he received a delegation from the Nigeria Governors Forum who came to the presidential villa, Abuja to condole with him on Friday’s air crash that happened in Kaduna. The president said, “This is a situation that only God knows when it will happen and it happened at a time when the security situation in the country is a fundamental issue. “And to lose choice officers has increased our problem but we know what we are in for and we will continue to work hard and pray hard so that God will give us the power to appreciate and apply ourselves to the problem. “The people who elected us, they know the promises we made within the time…the circumstances which we find ourselves…we will keep on trying and continue to do our best.” On his part, the president of the Nigerian Governors Forum, Fayemi said the death of the officers was a big blow. He said, “We’ve read your statement and this delegation of governors consider it a duty and as part of our obligation as your representatives to commiserate with you over the loss of your gallant officers. “We know it is an event that has touched you. When we mentioned the necessity for a change of service chiefs, you were determined to get the best set of people, you gave your assurance and the military was beginning to feel the impact. “We know that this is a major blow and you’re unrelenting in your quest/commitment to ensure peace and security in our country. “It’s unfortunate the losses we have suffered. We only pray God gives both the families and the country the fortitude to bear the loss, pray that God gives our country greater resolve to continue on the path that the late COAS towed. “For us, we must defeat banditry, insurgency, and criminality. That’s the mandate you gave them. This should not lead to any retreat or surrender on our part. “As you have promised, we know that our country will do everything to ensure that the administration will do all to take care of the families of the departed officers. It’s an indication of how protected the active officers would be.”