The Senate Committee on Finance has commenced an investigation into the alleged excess spending believed to have been undertaken by the National Lottery Trust Fund. The Chairman of the Senate panel, Solomon Adeola, disclosed this during an investigative hearing into the alleged non-remittances of the one per cent stamp duty on all contracts awarded by ministries and agencies of the Federal Government between 2014 to 2020. A document obtained by our correspondent on Monday from the panel’s secretariat revealed that the NLTF allegedly violated due process in the award of contracts worth N1.12bn during the period under review. In the document, tagged, ” Intervention budget distribution” the fund was requested for in a letter dated 12 March , 2014. Adeola alleged that during the period under review, the agency declared N7bn, but that further investigations by his Committee revealed that the money spent on ‘good course’ was more than the money declared by the agency as Internally Generated Revenue. The Chairman then demanded for the source of the money spent on the ‘good course’ which was more than the money declared before the Committee. The Chairman said, “We discovered that the National Lottery Trust Fund spent money for good course in accordance with their Act. “The total money accruing to them in the period under review is about N7bn but by the time we marry the money with the good course to be provided, we noticed that the amount expended on good course is even more than the amount that was declared. “The question is where do you get this excess fund? Do you have any other source of income? The answer is no. What that simply implies is under declaration of revenue.” Meanwhile, the document obtained by our correspondent on the N1.12bn, indicated that total procurement cost for the contract awarded without due process was N800m, while consultancy service was N185m. A further breakdown revealed that Public Awareness and Media cost was N50m, another N50m was spent on project administration while N25 m was spent on contingency. Further scrutiny of the document also showed that the consultancy fee which was about N185m was expected to be N80m, being the 10 per cent of the contract cost.