Real estate investment and management company, Afriland Properties Plc, has said it will continue to offer services that will boost the real estate sector in the country and Africa at large It also reiterated its commitment to improving lives through quality service delivery at its 2021 Africa Day celebration. In a statement on Sunday, the Managing Director, Afriland Properties Plc, Mrs Uzoamaka Oshogwe, said, We will continue to set the pace with offerings that represent true value to the real estate sector and Africa at large.” She acknowledged the company’s strides made in terms of growth and spoke of the challenges in Africa, lauding the continent’s resilience in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic. The managing director said, “We reflected on what has been a very challenging period for all across the continent and hold the belief that Africa has come through the worst phase. Sooner rather than later, we will have a semblance of life as we know it. “At Afriland, gratitude and thanksgiving is our theme in appreciation for coming through a difficult period and being privileged to recount our experiences. We are celebrating life; we are celebrating Africa.” She disclosed that the company was building an African-owned business focused on creating employment, driving economic prosperity, and promoting social wealth to positively transform the continent. “Our position in the industry has been attained through purpose-driven services as well as the application of our team of experienced professionals that understand the business of real estate. “Liquidity management, cost management, technological innovation, and a very pragmatic approach to funding are just some of the many strategies we have implemented to ensure that we remain competitive across the continent and our standards are maintained.” Afriland Properties Plc is one of Nigeria’s indigenous property management, investment, and development companies, offering end-to-end services along the real estate value chain, from management to joint-venture investments. The company said it has a portfolio size of over N15bn and was focused on an institutional approach to real estate, serving niche markets throughout Africa. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com