Nigeria currently has 97 neurosurgeons to cater for medical needs of her teeming population estimated to be over 200 million. This is a far cry from at least 2,000 neurosurgeons that should reasonably serve the population, experts say. A neurosurgeon is a physician who specializes in the diagnosis and surgical treatment of disorders of the central and peripheral nervous system, including congenital anomalies, trauma, tumors, vascular disorders, infections of the brain or spine, stroke, or degenerative diseases of the spine. They also treat congenital problems of the nervous system such as hydrocephalus, spina bifida, and encephalocele, among others. They also attend to vascular lesions such as stroke, aneurysm, arteriovenous malformation; they remove tumours (swellings) that may or may not be cancerous from the brain and spinal cord. They also perform surgical procedures to treat seizures, pain, and abnormal movements of various parts of the body. They treat these conditions through conservative management and, where necessary, by surgical interventions. The 97 neurosurgeons in both the private and public practice areavailable in 27 of the 36 states, and the Federal Capital Territory, PUNCH HealthWise reports. Our correspondent gathered that most of the neurosurgeons in the country practise in teaching hospitals and Federal Medical Centers, while some of them in private practice are located in big cities like Lagos, Abuja, Warri, Enugu, Osogbo. Meanwhile, these physicians are spread thin across all the states, but they do not record any presence in states like Abia, Nasarawa, Niger, Gombe, Bauchi, Yobe, Jigawa, Taraba, and Zamfara. The state-by-state number of neurosurgeons, made available by the Neurosurgeon Association of Nigeria, shows that Enugu has the highest number of the specialists with 10 neurosurgeons; followed by Lagos (nine;  FCT (eight); Oyo (six); Edo (six); Kaduna (six); Kwara (four); Sokoto (four); Plateau (four); Imo (four). Others are Ogun (three); Delta (three); Anambra (three); Rivers (three); Borno (three); Osun (two); Ondo (two); Ekiti (two); Cross-River (two); Akwa-Ibom (two); Kebbi (two); Kano (two). Benue (one); Bauchi (one); Bayelsa (one); Ebonyi (one); and Katsina (one). Since Nigeria has a population of at least 200 million, according to World Bank data, this implies that one neurosurgeon will need to attend to 100,000 Nigerians – a far cry from the needed number of neurosurgeons. Speaking with PUNCH HealthWise, President, Nigerian Academy of Neurological Surgeons, Prof. Edward Komolafe, said, “With 200 million population, we have one neurosurgeon for 100,000 persons in Nigeria; but we need at least 2,000 neurosurgeons for the population. “One neurosurgeon per 100,000 population ratio was proposed in 1977 in the study on surgical services for the United States, though the World Health Organisation’s recommendation is much less than that. “So, the number of neurosurgeons is grossly inadequate,” Komolafe told our correspondent. Qualifying as a neurosurgeon Komolafe noted that it takes an average of seven to eight years to qualify as a neurosurgeon after the National Youth Service Corps. Highlighting some of the reasons neurosurgeons are scarce in the country, Komolafe said that most hospitals in Nigeria do not have facilities for them to work and it takes a longer time to train one, saying, that is usually three to four years or more. “Most neurosurgeons have no time for extracurricular activities or family; training is very hard and difficult. The surgeries they do are very delicate, difficult, and takes a long time to do.” Decrying the treatment of the specialists by employers, Komolafe said, “There is no differential pay, compared to other specialties where the length of training is shorter and where the work burden is much less. “There is also no difference in the call duty payment. Every doctor collects virtually the same amount, whether their calls are busy or nor; or whether they are perpetually busy, as is the case of neurosurgeons.” He noted that neurosurgeons are the highest-paid group of doctors globally because of the nature of their work, length of training and heavy load/burden put on them. So, when Nigerian neurosurgeons are compared to their colleagues in other climes, the pay is incomparable at all,” he said. According to the World Health Organisation, neurological disorders constitute a large and increasing share of the global burden of disease. Stroke, dementia, epilepsy, and Parkinson’s disease are important factors determining mortality and morbidity in all societies. The UN agency, however, said that the resources and services for dealing with these disorders are disproportionately scarce, particularly in developing countries. While neurological service in Western countries varies from one to 10 neurologists per 100,000 inhabitants, neurology either does not exist or is only marginally present in major parts of the world. To continue reading this story and more, click here Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com