The Nigeria Union of Journalists on Sunday said the State House Correspondent of Peoples Daily, Sunday Odeh, had been released after some hours of detention by security operatives. This is just as the Conference of Benue Journalists condemned the arrest and detention of Ode, saying it breached due process and his fundamental human rights. The Vice President of CBJ, Ewache Ajefu, made the condemnation in a statement on Sunday. The chairman, FCT council of the NUJ, Emmanuel Ogbeche, confirmed Odeh’s release in an interview with THE PUNCH. He said, “Sunday Odeh was released on Saturday around 1pm from police custody in Makurdi, Benue State. “It is an unfortunate development when one takes into cognisance the fact that the Benue State Government has been at the forefront for accountability and responsibility by the Federal Government. “Odeh’s arrest is dangerous against the background of fighting terrorism and banditry. The political leadership in this country should realise that readily information is for the public good as it is the most potent weapon against speculation, fake news and disinformation.” Also the CBJ said, “We are aware that the illegal arrest of Ode is at the instance of the Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, through his counsel, Samuel Irabor, after a petition dated April 14, 2021, and addressed to the Commissioner of Police, Benue State Police Command, alleging that our colleague wrote a report that is injurious to his client. “Governor Ortom who has always presented himself as a fighter of injustice cannot be seen as a gross violator of the rights of any citizen.” However, the Chief Press Secretary to Benue State Governor, Terver Akase, said that the journalist was picked up for allegedly maligning Ortom , adding that he was released on Saturday. Akase said Od was invited by police but refused to honour the invitation. “It is actually a police matter, the man maligned the governor and the governor’s lawyer reported him to police and he was invited. “But he failed to honour the invitation and when police saw him, they picked him up. “Even when governor got wind of his arrest, he ordered that they should release him, he has been released since yesterday (Saturday); in fact, he did not spend up to an hour with the police. Meanwhile, the State Command spokesperson, DSP,  Catherine Anene, said she was not aware of the arrest of the journalist. Responding to text message sent to her, Anene said, “I was not aware of this please.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com