LAGOS is currently groaning under the yoke of the burdensome activities of commercial motorcycle riders popularly called okada. Combined with the equally menacing commercial tricycle (Keke Marwa) operators, they have become a major security threat in the state. The recent pledge by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu to tackle the menace should therefore be followed through with determination. Okada riders’ lawlessness and impunity in the state have gone overboard. To be fair, the administration inherited a messy, chaotic transport sector. Relative sanity instilled on the highways between 2010 and 2015 began to revert to lawlessness when the state government unwisely relaxed enforcement of traffic laws. Consequently, Sanwo-Olu’s vow to restore order and his new mass transit initiatives raise hope that the riders will soon be tamed. While in furtherance of the Lagos State Traffic Law 2012, the government had ensured that the restriction on okada riders’ activities was enforced up till mid-2015, the inexplicable lax and irregular enforcement thereafter upturned the prevailing sanity. The situation has since degenerated to a dangerously chaotic level today to the dismay of Lagosians who had relished the few years of relative orderliness on the highways after decades of a harrowing traffic nightmare. Unruly riders and commercial vehicle operators, capitalising on the laxity and lack of consistency in enforcement, have taken lawlessness to new heights and rendered Lagos roads unsafe. Apart from flagrant violations of traffic rules, okada are a vehicle of choice for armed robbers and violent rival cults. Sanwo-Olu must imbibe this strongly: law enforcement is a permanent, all-year-round activity; no serious government relaxes or looks the other way when laws are broken. This loophole emboldened all manner of persons from states where okada had been banned, including neighbouring countries, to flood the state. The influx of daredevil commercial motorcyclists has blighted the city’s claim to megacity status. It comes with high economic and social costs, adding greatly to the cost of goods and services and disrupting social activities. Recent attempts to enforce the traffic rules by security agents have been met with violent resistance from the riders. They have attacked policemen, torched vehicles, and police stations. Such confrontations have led to injuries and deaths in Agege, Apapa and Ikeja. It is a mess the government brought upon itself and must now urgently fix. Motorcycles and tricycles cannot be a long-term strategy for transportation in a megacity. They are an eyesore, an escapist option in tackling transportation problems. The governor admitted this at a recent stakeholders’ meeting on security, “Okada riders are disregarding and flouting the restrictions we imposed on their activities in certain areas of the metropolis. In this same vein, we have also observed with dismay the ongoing war between commercial motorcyclists and our law enforcement agencies. The Lagos State Road Traffic Law, enacted in 2012 to safeguard the lives of people and to maintain law and order on our roads, is the legal backbone for the restrictions put in place early last year and designed to curb the okada menace in the state.” The governor must admit failure if he is unable to sustain the partial ban on okada and tricycles. During his inauguration on May 29, 2019, he said his administration would enforce the rule of law, adding, “We will make sure that we create the right environment in which security and safety of lives and property are guaranteed.” He should re-energise the law enforcement agencies to reset to perpetual, firm, fair and corruption-free enforcement of the traffic law. The restriction of okada from 475 roads should be rigorously enforced; attacks on officers should be forcefully put down and the culprits swiftly brought to trial. Funding, equipping and motivation of traffic officers and other security personnel should be stepped up and mobile traffic offences courts reactivated. For effective traffic law enforcement, the European Transport Safety Council recommends among others, that enforcement should “take place regularly and over a long time”, combine visible and less visible activities, be unpredictable and difficult to avoid and be well publicised. Additionally, it said offences must be followed by sanctions that are “effective, proportionate and dissuasive”. These are already embedded in the law requiring only the strong will to enforce. Turning Lagos into a mega city demands effective law enforcement. Since the state creates a major part of the country’s national gross domestic product, it deserves the best in traffic and transport management. Sanwo-Olu should act decisively. The roll-out of 500 ‘First and Last Mile’ buses to ply inner routes instead of motorcycles and tricycles should be a prelude to eventually phasing them out as a transport mode. His promise of “further changes to the parameters of motorcycle and tricycle operations in the state in the coming days” should have this as the target. Okada riders have deformed many persons, left households in anguish after fatal, needless accidents and motorcycles are increasingly used to perpetrate crimes. The US Consulate in Lagos last month issued a security alert on the activities of armed men on motorcycles who engage in robberies and smash-and-grabs mostly at night at Ikoyi and Victoria Island. The police should rise to the challenge as the state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, had also raised the alarm regarding rising security breaches attributable to okada riders’ criminality. He disclosed that so far this year, 320 commercial motorcyclists have been arrested in 218 cases of criminal incidents and 78 suspects detained and 480 ammunition recovered. This is in addition to the 385 fatal road accidents attributable to okada riders. With a population of over 20 million in 2016 and the nation’s economic hub, Lagos deserves effective security and a modern transportation system. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com