The Plateau State Police Command has deploy tactical operatives in the Lamingo area of Jos to search for and rescue a professor in the Department of Medical Microbiology, University of Jos, Grace Ayanbimpe, and her husband, who were kidnapped by gunmen. PUNCH Metro learnt that the professor was abducted in the early hours of Monday alongside her husband by the gunmen, who stormed their residence behind the Haske Quarters, Lamingo, in the Jos North Local Government Area of the state. A resident of the community, Philip Dachung, confirmed the incident to our correspondent in Jos on Monday. Dachung said, “It was around 2am when the kidnappers came to their house. They broke into their apartment and shot in the air. Neighbours, who were terrified by the gunshots, could not come out for fear of being hit by stray bullets. “So, at daybreak, we discovered that the gunmen had taken the professor and her husband away. We don’t know where they are right now.” A staff member of UNIJOS, who also confirmed the incident, said, “This morning (Monday), we got information that Prof. Grace Ayanbimpe of the Department of Medical Microbiology was abducted along with her husband from their residence. “Please pray for their safe and quick release by their abductors. May we also see the end of insecurity in our country.” The Head, Department of Medical Microbiology, UNIJOS, Dr Mark Okolo, declined to speak on the incident when contacted by our correspondent. The spokesman for the state police command, ASP Ubah Ogaba, who also confirmed the incident, said, “The command received a report of kidnapping of a man and his wife behind Stanel Oil, Lamingo, Jos. “Tactical operatives have been deployed in the area. Concerted efforts are on towards rescuing the victims and arresting the perpetrators.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com