THE All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party, on Tuesday, renewed their war of words over the Nigeria Ports Authority unremitted N165bn. National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, had accused the APC-led regime of enabling unbridled corruption in virtually all sectors of the Nigerian economy. Ologbondiyan in an interview with The PUNCH, said “From the missing US $1billion meant for equipping our military, to the contract scam in the NDDC, it is now an established fact that corruption has become the official policy of this regime. “The scandal over the unremitted N165bn by the NPA, is only a tip of the iceberg. Our call for the sack and prosecution of the Minister of Transportation Rotimi Amaechi and the suspended MD of the NPA, Hadiza Bala-Usman, stands.” In response, the APC in a statement titled, “NPA Inquest: PDP Unfit to Criticize President Buhari Government on Corruption Fight – APC,” signed by its National Secretary, Sen. John Akpanudoedehe, in Abuja, on Tuesday said, the PDP was the least qualified to criticise the Buhari regime on its anti-graft war. The APC described the PDP statement calling for Amaechi and Bala-Usman’s sack as ‘nonsensical.’ Akpanudoedehe said, “Apparently, the PDP is still living in their alternate reality in which corruption, aided by their family members and cronies, was approved by statecraft. “For the PDP that looted everything in sight during the 16 years it held this country to ransom, it is understandable that it is still unable to understand a routine administrative probe. “While inaugurating the panel on Monday, to probe the activities of the NPA, the Transportation minister was abundantly clear that no one has been indicted of anything. And the probe is in line with the routine discharge of the duties and functions of the Ministry of Transportation’s supervisory mandate over the NPA.” The APC further said the fact that President Buhari approved a probe into the matter was a clear testimony of his belief in transparency, good governance and adherence to the rules in public service and zero tolerance for corruption in his administration. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com