The House of Representatives has mandated its Committees on Telecommunications and Interior to investigate the alleged expatriate quota abuse in the telecoms sector and report back within six weeks for further legislative action. This is sequel to the unanimous adoption of a motion moved at the plenary on Tuesday by Mr Bello Shinkafi, titled ‘Need to Investigate the Abuse of Expatriate Quota by Telecommunications Equipment Vendors and Service Providers in Nigeria.’ Moving the motion, Shinkafi noted that the Immigration Act 2015 and the Immigration Service Regulations 2017 are the principal laws governing the employment of expatriates in Nigeria, while the principal regulatory bodies are the Nigerian Immigration Service and the Federal Ministry of Interior. The lawmaker also noted that the law empowers the NIS to, from time to time, issue entry permits and expatriate quota to foreigners who intend to work in Nigeria for specifically approved jobs and for a specific period, with a view to training Nigerians and transferring their requisite skills during their period of employment. He stressed that the expatriate quota guides against the indiscriminate employment of expatriates where there are qualified Nigerians who can fit into those positions. According to him, expatriate quota may be granted for an initial period of three years and can be renewed further for a period of two years, subject to a total life span of 10 years within which such relevant skills ought to have been transferred to Nigerians understudying such expatriates. Shinkafi noted a clause in the expatriate policy which provides for two Nigerians to understudy an expatriate, to promote the transfer of knowledge and technology. “However, some of those foreign companies have taken advantage of this clause in active connivance with the Nigeria Immigration Service and other agencies to bring as many of their nationals as possible, sometimes illegally, in gross disregard for the law,” he said. Shinkafi stated, “The House is worried that the abuse of expatriate quotas by those foreign companies is not deemed a national security issue by the Federal Government, particularly so at a time of record of youth unemployment and the age of terrorism. “The House is concerned that the practice of expatriate quota abuse was initially restricted to the oil and gas sector but has now been extended to the telecommunications sector in which there is a surfeit of local skills, many of the expatriates still retain their employments after their permits had expired and not been renewed as required by law. “The House is also concerned that the expatriates enjoy unimaginable pay and privileges, while their Nigerian counterparts are paid less and treated with disdain in their own country and many competent Nigerians lose their jobs and the country loses multi-million dollars annually.”