The Lagos State Police Command has arrested four suspected traffic robbers in the Onireke area along the Badagry Expressway. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi, said in a statement on Monday that the suspects were nabbed during a stop-and-search operation conducted by personnel of the Onireke Division. He stated that two cutlasses, one jack knife, weeds suspected to be Indian hemp and five suspected stolen phones, among other exhibits, were found on the suspects, adding that the state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, had ordered that the suspects be handed over to the command’s Special Squad for prosecution. Adejobi stated, “The Lagos State Police Command, in furtherance of its commitment to eradicating traffic robbery in the state, on Saturday, May 15, 2021, around 1am, arrested four suspected traffic robbers in front of the Onireke Division, along the Badagry Expressway, Lagos. “Police operatives attached to the Onireke Division of the command, while on a stop-and-search operation, stopped a motorcycle conveying four passengers. “The police searched them and recovered two cutlasses, one jack knife, weeds suspected to be Indian hemp, two bottles of ICED intoxicant substance (Hehila) and five suspected stolen phones. “The suspects are Uche Eze, 24; Jamilu Bala, 21; Ernest Bala, 24; and Sheidu Sanni, 23. The suspects are giving useful information to assist the police in their investigation. “The state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, has directed that the suspects be transferred to the command’s Special Squad, Ikeja, for proper investigation and possible arrest of other members of the gang. “He further directed the Divisional Police Officer of the area to improve on his anti-crime strategies to go after hoodlums, who are terrorising the area, and eradicate traffic robbery and other forms of criminality in his area of responsibility.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com