The apex Igbo socio-cultural organisation, Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide says the people of the South-East region are agents of development and not destruction. President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, Prof. George Obiozor, stated this on Thursday during a courtesy visit to Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, at the Lagos House, Marina. Obiozor also advised Sanwo-Olu to ignore the rumour that members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra were plotting to attack Lagos, noting that it was a ploy to distract the governor and his administration from providing good governance for all residents of the state. The PUNCH had earlier reported that Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, on Monday said the command was putting measures in place to forestall attacks on soft targets in the state by IPOB. The secessionist group led by Nnamdi Kanu has since denied the allegation. Speaking in Lagos on Thursday, in his address titled, ‘Violence in any part of Lagos State is violence on all of us’, the President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide said Ndigbo cannot indulge in any act that would harm the harmonious peace and cordial relationship between Igbo and Yoruba, especially in Lagos, which he described as second home of several Ndigbo. Obiozor said, “Today, the leadership of Ohanaeze Ndigbo Worldwide, in the company of Igbo Elders and Leaders in Lagos, are here to pay you (Governor Sanwo-Olu) a solidarity visit and to further reassure you that Ndigbo are not violent in nature, neither are we known for acts of violence anywhere we live. “The constant and periodic dangerous insinuations, rumour, gossips and callous statements that Ndigbo in Lagos or any part of Yoruba land contemplate or instigate violence in Lagos or any part of Yoruba land; we wish to state clearly that anywhere this dangerous rumour or statement is emanating from is aimed to cause division, crises and conflict amongst us. “We think that this rumour is intended to distract the Lagos State Government from its efforts to provide good governance for all and cause disaffection between Ndigbo who live in Lagos and their host community which is the second home of several Ndigbo. “The quick denial of this rumour by members of IPOB and Yoruba groups in Lagos and across the South West was a source of relief.” “I am aware that the Government and good people of Lagos State under your able leadership, and through their hospitable gestures, have continually kept the trust and friendship between Ndigbo and our host communities in Lagos State alive. “Ohanaeze Ndigbo through this medium reiterates total support to the state government and the security agencies in their patriotic efforts to keep everyone safe in Lagos and throughout the country. The Igbo nation is renowned for being agents of development, not destruction. Ndigbo are builders and their contributions to the development of Lagos State are evident and exemplary,” he added. Responding, Sanwo-Olu assured Ohanaeze Ndigbo leadership of continuous good governance, security of lives and properties of all residents in Lagos. The governor said he had no doubt that the Ndigbo are great people, noting that his administration would continue to foster harmonious relationships with all the different tribes and ethnic nationalities in the state.