The Nigeria Labour Congress, Kaduna State Council, has said that over 20,000 state workers have not received their April salaries. The Chairman, NLC Kaduna State Council, Ayuba Suileman, told our correspondent that workers in the state would begin a five-day warning strike on Monday because of the mass sacking of over 6,000 workers by the state government. Suleiman said, “The strike would commence on Monday through to Friday as a warning. The essence of the strike is that we want the state government to reverse the decision of sacking the huge number of workers. “Workers in the state are not happy. They are jittery. The state government is using random indiscriminate deposition to send people packing. “No worker in Kaduna state is at rest. They are jittery and are not performing optimally. While they have paid April salaries, over 20,000 people have not received their salaries.” He expressed hope that he hopes the state governor, Nasir el-Rufai would rescind his decision. He said, “The state governor is looking difficult, and from antecedence, he does not have a good relationship with trade unions and the Nigeria Labour Congress. “We will try to persuade him through this strike and hope he rescinds the decision of sacking over 6,000 workers.” Meanwhile, the Nigerian Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers has ordered tanker drivers in Kaduna State to down tools for five days beginning from Sunday. The directive was conveyed in a letter to the Petroleum Tanker Drivers Branch of NUPENG Kaduna. NUPENG said the directive was from the Nigeria Labour Congress to protest the mass sack of teachers and other civil servants in the state and Governor Nasir El-Rufai’s refusal to implement the new minimum wage. “Consequent upon that directive, you are hereby directed to effect maximum compliance of the directive for the successful execution of the campaign against anti-labour activities and the behaviour of the executive governor of Kaduna State,” the union said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com