Which school do you attend? I am a student of the Holy Child College, Ikoyi, Lagos. I am 12 years old. What are your utmost wishes? My wish is to be able to walk on the streets and go to the supermarket without my parents being worried. I wish I could go to school and supermarkets without the fear of being kidnapped. What are your dreams as a Nigerian child? My dreams as a Nigerian child include having free and quality education from the government. I also want to have equal rights and opportunities as my counterparts in developed countries. I want to live in a safe environment too. How can children become good ‘ambassadors’? Children learn from what they see, so parents and other adults should be patriotic and show the right examples. They should be of good influence and make positive contributions to society. Those acts would be seen and replicated by the children and the world would be a better place. How do you think parents can develop better relationships with their children? Parents should try as much as possible to take Children’s Day off work. They should have quality family time— eating meals together, talking, sharing jokes and riddles, playing games and learning about one another. This is important for children and many don’t have the opportunity because many parents are too occupied with work, thus neglecting their children. How can the government ensure a bright future for children in Nigeria? Quality education is very important. The government should identify all the threats to the wellbeing of Nigerian children and deal with them. They should also ensure that all schools are properly secured. Close circuit television cameras should be installed nationwide.  What is the name of your school? The name of my school is Unique Children School. I am in kindergarten. Do you have a wish list? I want my parents to buy me more dolls and a playhouse. What is your future ambition? I want to become a doctor and change Nigeria. How can children be at their best? Children can be at their best if they listen to their parents and teachers. How can parents get closer to their children? Our parents should spend more time with us and listen to us more. Which school do you attend? I attend Chrisland Schools, Ikeja, Lagos. I am currently in Year 6. I am 11 years old. What do you wish for? I wish for many things but topmost is for families to have stronger relationships among themselves. How can children set good examples in society? Children can become good examples to other children if they are raised in proper homes where there is love and care. Children can be instrumental to the growth of society if they have access to quality education to grow their minds. They should also engage in extracurricular activities to keep their minds active, as it is commonly said that ‘an idle mind is the devils’ workshop’. Society is not as safe as it should be. How do you think children can stay safe? Both parents and children need to be prayerful. Children should avoid talking to strangers. They should also speak out when they feel threatened by anyone. Lastly, they should avoid going to places without the knowledge and consent of their parents or guardians. What are your dreams for Nigeria? It is my dream for Nigeria to be a safe place for people to live with their families. I would also want to see a reduction in the poverty rate. I would like for children to be given equal opportunities and quality education, irrespective of their backgrounds or financial status. It is also my dream that Nigeria would become a place where citizens would not need to travel abroad to get quality education. In your opinion, how can parents have better relationships with their children? They can do that by spending quality time with their kids. Parents should also be attentive to their children’s needs to build a stronger bond with them. How can the government ensure a bright future for children in Nigeria? They should tackle insecurity holistically. The authorities should also provide a safe and serene environment in public schools. In addition, the government should create more jobs for citizens, so that they (citizens) would be able to provide for their children.  Quality healthcare should be made available and affordable for all citizens as well.  Which school do you attend? I attend Chrisland Secondary School, Ikeja, Lagos. I am 12 years old. What are your dreams? My dream is to be a paediatrician so that I can help children with poor health. I also wish that the government would make healthcare free for all children in Nigeria. How do you think parents can have better relationships with their children? Parents should try to understand their children and relate well with them. They should also set good examples for us too. Children learn from watching adults, so they (adults) should influence us positively and guide us right through the right path.  How old are you? I am ten years old and I attend Home Science Association Nursery and Primary School, Abule Egba, Lagos. What are your dreams? My dream is for every child to have access to quality education in a safe and friendly environment. I also wish that there would be consistent power supply, good roads and security. I wish I could put a smile on every child’s face. How can parents have better relationships with their children? Parents should spend more time with their children, communicate with them and encourage them to express their gifts and talents. Also, children should obey their parents’ instructions.  Tell us about yourself. I am 13 years old and I am a native of Ekiti State. The name of my school is Kanmi Comprehensive College. I am in SS1. What are your dreams? My dream is for all Nigerian children to have access to good education and quality parenting. That way, the future of the country would be assured. Since it is said that children are the leaders of tomorrow, those children should be well equipped with knowledge and skills. How can children bring out the best in themselves? They should concentrate on their studies and leave no room for distractions. It is also important for them to have the fear of God. How can parents have better relationships with their children? Parents should create quality time for their children, especially on special occasions, such as Children’s Day. What safety tips do you have for children? They should inform their parents and other elderly ones before going out. They should also adhere strictly to COVID-19 rules. Do you have any message for the government? I would really want the government to provide better educational facilities for children in the country.  How old are you? I am eight years old. I attend New Bridge Hall School, Lagos State, and I’m in Year 4. How did you celebrate Children’s Day? My dad took me and my siblings to a recreational park where we swam and played with some friends. I had a lot of fun. What changes would you like to see regarding how parents relate with their children? I want parents to talk to their children in a kind manner. What changes would you like to see in Nigeria? I want Nigeria to become a better country, so that people from all over the world would want to visit. What are your future ambitions? I would like to become a doctor. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com