The Nigerian Communications Commission has said it resolved 99.2 per cent of service-related complaints it received from telecommunications consumers across the major network operators in the first quarter. A Q1 report on complaint management issued by the Consumer Affairs Bureau of the commission said it received a total of 3,019 consumer complaints from four complaint channels. This reflects 5.5 per cent increase from the 2,854 complaints received in Q1, 2020. Commenting on the report, Executive Vice Chairman, NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, said the commission, as a consumer-centric regulator, would continue to explore new initiatives to strengthen the existing consumer complaints management process while ensuring prompt and satisfactory resolution of all complaints. “NCC’s actions in this regard are in line with its mandate to protect and defend the rights and interests of the consumer, and to give concrete expression to its faith in the consumer as the lifeblood of the telecoms sector,” he added. The channels through which the complaints came included the commission’s contact centre (with toll-free number 622), consumer portal, social media platforms, and written complaints. The commission said 2,995 consumer complaints were resolved. The agency said it escalated 24 complaints which were waiting resolution from the respective service providers in line with the revised Consumer Complaint/Service Level Agreement (CC/SLA) of 2019. A total of 1,261 (51.8 per cent) of the total complaints came from MTN customers, 973 (32.2 per cent) came from Airtel subscribers, 549 (18.2 per cent) from Globacom subscribers, while 179 (5.9 per cent) were from 9Mobile customers. The remaining 52 complaints came from customers of other licensees. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com