Toluwalope Kareem writes about the country’s burden of open defecation At about 11:40am on a cloudy Wednesday, a porter pushed his wheelbarrow to the edge of the Eko Bridge, Lagos State and stopped. He later pulled down his blue, faced jeans trouser to defecate by the bridge. He felt at ease after he emptied his bowels into the clear, running water. Some motorists sped past but he wasn’t bothered. What relaxed him was the realisation that he was able to excrete faeces which had inconvenienced to him. Few metres away from where he defecated into the lagoon, two other persons in tow scurried to answer the call of nature. In minutes, they had finished and walked towards the marketplace near the bridge. Our correspondent who watched the first porter leave the scene pushing his wheelbarrow approached him to ask why he had to excrete faeces openly. The dark, lanky guy broke his stride and balanced the wheelbarrow carefully on the side of the bridge as vehicles sped past. He said quietly in mismatched English, “No place to shit. The public toilet at that place (pointing to Balogun market area) used to be N20 to shit (defecate) and N10 to piss (urinate). But now it is N50 to shit and in some places like Mandilas area in Balogun market it’s now N100 from N70. It is too much. Why will I pay N50 to shit when I can easily do it here for free? How much I dey get per day? The public toilets are not many and one cannot walk for long to be looking for them. There are places wey I fit shit for free. Even to piss, I go do am anywhere.’’ Asked if he wasn’t ashamed to defecate in public, the porter who refused entreaties to give his name said, “Why will I be ashamed? I am not the only one doing it; people in this place do it and don’t look at us, nobody dey look at us. It is not inside shops we shit or beside the shops, it is along the bridge and roadside, only cars pass here and they park on the road. In fact, anyone who looks at us should be ashamed. We no steal.’’ He stated that they always looked for new places whenever anyone chased them away from defecating at a place, urging the authorities at the marketplace to reduce the N100 defecation fee. In a popular town in the Ibeju Lekki area of Lagos State, during one of our correspondent’s visits to the place, it was discovered that residents of the town enjoyed defecating by the seaside. In an interview with one of the residents who is a fisherman identified only as Ismaila, he said most undeveloped parts in the area lacked toilet facilities. The fisherman said, “In our town most houses lack toilets, even when things began to advance as I grew up, what we had was pit latrines and we didn’t even use them. Not all homes even have a pit latrine then even now some homes don’t have pit latrines or a water closet. We have found comfort in the sea where both the old and the young defecate, except the really old ones who would defecate near the home. “What we are used to is defecating by the seaside, because it is the easiest and the sea water is there to wash it away. In some homes where there are no toilets, what we use is either nylon or a piece of paper. We defecate either on a paper or in a nylon and keep in the dustbin to dispose later. In the midnight, if one is about to defecate and the person’s house is close to the lagoon, the person defecates on a piece of paper and throws it away. Everyone finds it comfortable to poo in the lagoon. Most times our women don’t go to the lagoon side, they defecate in the comfort of their house either on a piece of paper, a latrine or water closet depending on whichever is available in their home. The best part is after defecating and washing our anuses into the lagoon, we dive in to take a shower.’’ His wife, identified only as Taye who sat with him under a bamboo shed facing the sea, said defecating inside the lagoon was what she was used to when growing up. She said, “When we were nearing maturity being conscious that some of our mates who’re males often watched us, we defecated at home in bamboo bathrooms by placing pieces of paper on the floor and throwing them away into the lagoon. My father’s house back then had a latrine but most times we preferred to use a piece of paper instead. It’s the same thing in the neighbouring towns. The lagoon is the most comfortable place for us to defecate. Nobody is comfortable using the toilet; we see it as time-wasting and stressful when we can defecate either on a piece of paper or nylon and throw it into the lagoon. Where are the public toilets? The best thing is to use the seaside.” In January 2020, our correspondent witnessed an accident at Arepo area on the Lagos–Ibadan Expressway. A man defecating by the roadside was crushed to death by the driver of a trailer conveying some covered goods that lost control and swerved off the road. An online content creator, Miss Rachael Adekoya, who attended a popular model college in Lagos State, said that while in secondary school they usually defecated openly. She said, “It was a normal thing in the school, whenever students wanted to defecate, we went to the dunghill with hoes to dig a place to defecate. We poured sand to cover it after defecation. At times, we may not dig the ground; we only defecated on the ground and used a hoe to carry the faeces and throw them into the dunghill.  We funnily called it, ‘shot-put.’ “We formed that habit as pupils because our school toilets were not hygienic enough, and the majority of us used to have infections. But when we started to use “shot- put,” we were able to mitigate infections. Pupils then were assigned to wash the toilets and also we had cleaners but no sooner were the toilets washed than they got dirty. Many pupils used the toilets without flushing because of water scarcity and others were simply lazy. Once the toilet was dirty, we resorted to ‘shot- put.’ Personally, whether the toilet was clean or not, I always used ‘shot-put’ because I felt it was the best for me after I contracted infection in Junior Secondary School 3.’’ Adekoya said many of the pupils believed that lack of water was the reason for the toilets’ dirtiness at the time. Nigeria’s open defecation burden The practices by the porters, Adekoya, Ismaila and Taye glaringly capture the open defecation trend which remains a deeply-rooted practice in Nigeria. Open defecation is described as a human practice of defecating in the open instead of using a toilet. Some of those who practise open defecation do so in ditches, forests, dishes, water bodies, canals or open spaces. A survey by the Water Sanitation and Hygiene conducted by the United Nations Children’s Fund noted that only 11 of the 774 local government areas in Nigeria were free from the practice. In 2019, Nigeria was ranked the first country with the highest number of open defecation taking over India. It is estimated that 50 million Nigerians (or 10 million households) defecate in the open and the country loses about 1.3 per cent (N455bn) of Gross Domestic Product annually due to poor sanitation. Additionally, more than 100, 000 children under the age of five die each year because of water and sanitation-related diseases. The National Demographic and Health Survey stated in 2015 that about 56 million people were expected to be added to the list of open defecators put at 46 million in the year under review. The problem of open defecation is linked to inadequate public toilets, poor sewage systems and also lack of laws to check the growing trend. In some offices and schools, there are no toilet facilities making people resort to defecating in open places. Nigerians lack access to toilet facilities and the majority are in rural areas where access to toilets facilities is scarce. Growing list of open defecators A transporter who gave his name only as Agbaje said most passengers usually ask him to stop on the way to defecate during trips, noting that he had also done so many times. He said, “Many times I have stopped on the way for passengers to defecate or urinate.  There are no toilet facilities on the road during trips and with the bushes along the road, they provide an opportunity for any passenger to quickly excrete faeces and the journey continues. If the situation of inadequate toilet facilities continues, open defecation in lagoon, bushes, roadside, forest etc cannot stop. When passengers ask me to stop, there is usually no choice even if other passengers object. No one will want passengers to relieve themselves on the bus.’’ Another computer engineer, Bode Akinye, narrated to Saturday PUNCH the experience of how he had to defecate on the way to return his children to a boarding school in the Badagry area of Lagos State. He said that after a Sallah break, he was taking his son to school when he had a stomach upset. Akinye added, “I ate a lot of ram meat during the festivity and it upset my stomach. On that Monday we set out as early as 5am to his school so I could return to my workplace by 10am. I took permission from work. As we started the journey from Ojodu Berger, Lagos, I was fine until we began to approach Mile 2. I tried to hold on, with the hope that once we got to Badagry Roundabout I would use a public toilet. I couldn’t hold it anymore when we got to Ibereko Bus Stop, I alighted from the bus and went to a nearby bush. It was close to a block industry. I even noticed faeces at that spot, and then I realised that those who worked at the block industry could be defecating at that place.’’ He further said that as he journeyed back to the bus where the passengers were waiting for him and his son, he laughed at himself and felt ashamed because “I defecated openly before my son. I also felt ashamed leaving my faeces in the open. I thought about how others feel when they do such. I found away to clean my hands.’’ Health risk of open defecation The World Health Organisation and the United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund’s joint monitoring report noted that about 47 million people particularly in northern Nigeria practice open defecation due to inaccessibility to good toilets. Fewer than half of households in Nigeria have their own toilets. The practice brings with it significant health risks, linked to deaths from diarrhoea, cholera, and typhoid. It is also a risk factor for violence against women and girls who, for example, may need to leave home in the dark to find somewhere to defecate. Agbaje said he was aware of the health risks associated with open defecation, adding that “I am only a victim of circumstance and it occurs only when I travel. There is nothing I can do to help it.’’ For Taye, she is unaware of any infection-related diseases linked to the practice and none of those they engaged in the act together as a child complained of contracting any disease. She stated, “Even when I feel itchy, I do not know if that’s the cause. Sea water is salty and medicinal and it is clean, maybe that is why we do not have any diseases. Once we defecate by the seaside, the water spreads the faeces into the sea. No one will even know if one defecates at the spot. We are not exposed to dirt.’’ In 2015, a joint report by UNICEF, USAID and the WHO suggested a link between poor sanitation and chronic malnutrition in children through the spread of diarrhoea and other intestinal parasites. Children are often the most severely affected by inadequate sanitation and open defecation. By their developing immune systems, they are affected by illnesses and conditions ranging from physical and mental stunting to cholera and malnutrition. Diarrhoea accounts for nine per cent (800,000) of deaths of children fewer than five years of age worldwide due to constant exposure and ingestion of germs from fecal matter, the studies noted. A 2013 report by NDHS indicated that 37 per cent of Nigerian children under-five were stunted (height for age), 18 per cent wasted (weight for height) and 29 per cent under-weight (weight for age). The study noted further that while the percentage of stunted children declined between 2003 and 2013, there was an increase in the percentage of wasted and under-weight children. The WHO estimates that 50 per cent of malnutrition is associated with repeated diarrhoea or intestinal worm infections from unsafe water or poor sanitation.  This is because children with diarrhoea eat significantly less food and only absorb fewer nutrients from their food, which perpetuates the cycle of contracting bacteria-related illnesses. There are also strong and uneven gender-based impacts of open defecation and the lack of adequate sanitation hardware. For girls and young women, the lack of access to private latrines and toilets renders them vulnerable to sexual violence, which frustrates efforts for them to lead a healthy and productive life. This much was reinforced by the Sanitation and Hygiene Applied Research for Hygiene organisation. Health experts’ views on the situation Speaking about the health implications of open defecation in the country, a professor of Public Health and Medical Statistics at the Bayero University Kano, Zubair Iliyasu, said when people engaged in open defecation, particularly during the rainy season, it could contaminate the water system and lead to an outbreak of cholera. Illiyasu stated that human faeces carry some infestations transmittable to people who walk barefooted on areas where people defecate. The lecturer added, “Children also play around and there can be what we call ‘faeco oral transmission of diseases’ and several diseases can be transmitted through faeco oral means, including polio eradicated recently. To curb this, there has to be a solution to the inadequacies of toilet facilities in the country. And this should involve the government, the private sector and community. They can adopt some sanitary latrine; an example of this is the ventilation improved pit latrine. There are several designs that can be used in rural and urban areas which are affordable. There is the need to take cognisance of people’s culture because usually these days latrines are constructed without regard to people’s culture, and when this happens, they do not use them. That is why it is important to work together with community members and initiate culturally acceptable designs. After that, the cost implication should be considered. It shouldn’t be expensive and has to be subsidised.’’ Saying that donors, individuals, government and communities should synergise to provide latrines at strategic locations, Illiyasu added that the locations should include markets, schools and other public places where people engage in open defecation. He stated, “It should be about cultural acceptability and enlightening the people on the importance of using sanitary latrine so that they don’t contract diseases.” Another health expert, Dr Tosin Ilori, stated that open defecation increases the risk of contracting waterborne diseases such as cholera, typhoid and trachoma including vector-borne diseases whereby human waste attracts flies and other insects. Ilori added, “Open defecation also causes malnutrition in children: Ill health caused by cholera and diarrhoea cause loss of fluid and lack of appetite for food which may lead to malnutrition. There is also the susceptibility to other infections; an infection from open defecation weakens the immune system and can further make a child more prone to other diseases such as pneumonia and tuberculosis. “Also, increase in sexual violence can ensue from open defecation: as there is no open lavatory for women. For example, they are often forced to relieve themselves in public places during the early hours of the morning or late at night, when the likelihood of sexual assault is higher. Open defecation also causes reduced productivity, when an adult is affected with diarrhoea or cholera, he or she may not be able to go to work which invariably will increase absenteeism and reduce the country’s GDP. In addition to this, death can result from the effects of open defecation.’’ According to the doctor, snake bites are linked to open defecation as well as psychosocial stressors in the course of searching for appropriate places and travelling long distances. Ilori said, “The fear of being seen is also associated with open defecation. Lastly, visual and olfactory pollution: heaps of human faeces or the sight of it can cause an eyesore and nauseate a passer-by. The stink emanating from the refuse can pollute the surrounding air. What can be done to stop the menace is to ensure education of the populace regarding health effects of open defecation. This will help guarantee that individuals take responsibility for their health. Also, there should be provision of accessible, affordable and easy-to-maintain public toilets in strategic locations in markets and around public places etc. Lastly, there is the need for legislation against open defecation and enforcement of laws forbidding buildings without toilet facilities.” On his part, environmental activist, Nnimmo Bassey, said that effects of open defecation on the country’s environment were enormous. Bassey stated, “It depends on the nature of the environment. It has an impact on land and on water. But generally it is a nuisance to everyone no matter what. It has health implications because when people defecate openly it means the waste goes directly to the environment. It could be injected by the domestic animals and the fishes in the water, microorganisms and that eventually affects everyone. It has implications on human health because of the lack of sanitation. People do not defecate for the fun of it; they are forced to do so because of lack of sanitation provisions. In informal settlements or communities where it is expensive to build individual sewage systems, for example in riverine areas, it is difficult for people to build septic tanks since there is no central sewage system.” He further said the government has a duty to provide decent housing for the people and ensure they have access to enough water for sanitary use. The environmentalist said, “For example, in this pandemic period when people are expected to often wash their hands. Also, there should be planned urban development; our urban centres are expanding without plans. Unplanned urbanisation is a big problem. People build without leaving spaces for services. Even if one wants to provide sewage systems you don’t have the space for that. There should be investments to upgrade informal settlements and provide the necessary facilities to ensure the health of the people. It is when people are healthy that they can be ready to contribute their quota to national development.’’ Tackling open defecation In October 2019, the Senate urged the Federal Government to increase the construction of public toilets in the country’s 36 states especially in states where open defecation has become more prevalent. It tasked the 36 states and the 774 local governments to construct more public toilets to battle the growing open defecation across the country. The Senate urged the Ministry of the Environment, Water Resources and Health including other related agencies to increase awareness and sensitisation on the dangers of open defecation to nip it in the bud. The President, Major General Muhammad Buhari (retd) in 2019 signed Executive Order 009 titled, ‘The Open Defecation-Free Nigeria by 2025 and Other Related Matters Order’ to ensure Nigeria becomes open-defecation free by 2025. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com