PERCY ANI writes about the survival strategies of family beggars in Lagos and Ogun states A young man with a backpack on way to work was surrounded by a group of kids who held his left hand. They demanded money from him as he looked harassed by their request. He tried to break away from their stronghold but they remained adamant. Noticing he didn’t budge, they asked him to part with a bottle of cold water in his right hand. He let it go and they scurried away in joy, to take turns to drink the water. They are children of some elderly beggars in the Mushin area of Lagos State who send them out on a daily basis in many parts of Lagos to beg to survive. The beggar tribe On narrow streets in Idi-Araba in Mushin, a few metres away from the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, some beggars clustered the areas from early morning until sunset.  Passers-by and motorists caught in the frustrating traffic were usually their targets. Our correspondent observed that the men stay together in a group while women and children form another set. The group included the blind, the lame and others with diverse deformities. Dressed in clothes that have seen better days, and armed with umbrellas, their bowls were strategically placed on the floor to collect alms. The community is not bothered about their activities as they have become a common feature in the neighbourhood. A resident in the community, Femi Aleshinloye, said the beggars occupied the area for a long time and considered the place their home. A way of life Using an interpreter, the beggars who were mostly from the northern part of the country thanked God for His mercies when our correspondent asked about their welfare. The three children of a woman in her mid-thirties, Aisha Mohammed, latched their eyes onto her sun-beaten young face for security and comfort. She told Saturday PUNCH that she had not done anything other than begging even though she had no physical deformity. She stated that she took to begging in Kano State and relocated to Lagos a few years ago with her kids to continue begging. Mohammed said she had since discovered that it was more profitable begging in Lagos than where she came from. She said, “People give me more alms in Lagos than where I came from. Though we are not so comfortable, all I can say is Alhamdulillah (We thank God).” Like Aisha, Farida Mustapha also begs on the streets of Idi-Araba. She is in her 60s and with grown-up kids living in the North.  According to her, she raised them through the proceeds of street begging. Mustapha said, “This is the only life I know. I can’t imagine doing any other work. My children have tried to make me stop begging, but I am too old to do anything else. If I stay in one place without doing this work (begging), I may die. I moved to Lagos to beg because people give alms better here. I have no fears or worries that something bad might happen to me while engaging in street begging. I have been doing this all my life and I thank God that nothing bad has ever happened to me. We also have a leader among us who settles any petty issues that arise among us and ensures they don’t get out of hand.’’ Another resident in the area, Mr John Onyekwere, said sometimes he felt worried about the safety of the beggars as they sat at the roadside. He stated, “Sometimes I see the beggars and I feel sorry for them. They are exposed to many things. I also fear for their children who run about the streets begging. I pray they never get knocked down by a careless driver or even kidnapped for rituals.” It was noted that children of some of the elderly beggars who sat meekly beside them often left in groups to solicit arms from passers-by and walk a few distances with them whenever they weren’t willing to part with money easily. King of blind beggars The road leading to the abode of the king of beggars in Idi-Araba is neither paved nor tarred. Blocks of stones were placed on the road by the residents to make it motorable. Nothing from the entrance of the house indicates the kingly status conferred on the occupier. The building is coated with a paint that has long lost its hue. An open clogged gutter lies in front of the compound, invitingly luring mosquitoes. The roof of the building appears tendered by rains with bags of refuse heaped together in front of the building. Permission has to be granted before one is allowed into the building to see the occupier. Seated on a bed is an old blind man with white hair in his 70s wearing a white singlet over a pair of trousers. His face lit up upon hearing that visitors were waiting to see him. Another elderly man and an old woman sat on the floor close to him. After exchanging pleasantries, he said, “I am Abdullahi Hamza. I am the leader of the beggars in this community and also the king of all the blind beggars in Lagos State. The man seated on the floor is my right-hand man, Yusuf Idris and the woman is my wife. Unlike some other beggars in Lagos State, I have been living in Lagos for over 50 years now. I have witnessed various governments in the state and I’m still here. I gave birth to all my six children in Lagos and some still live in this place with me while the others stay in the North. Some of my grandchildren were also born in Lagos State. Some of my sons drive trucks and others have other jobs but they no longer beg on the streets.’’ Hamza added that he settles disputes among the beggars in his domain and members of the community. He said, “I help to settle any dispute between the members of our community. Also, in cases where people donate things to us, I make sure every member gets their share of the gifts. My family as well as the other families and people that come here to beg live together as one. We encourage our children to go to school and also learn trades. Our children attend schools around. But after school, they join us on the street to beg. It is our way of life and only source of livelihood. The more we are on the street, the more alms we get to take care of our families.” Saying he had lived in Lagos almost all his life with no other work apart from begging, Hamza stated, “Unlike some other beggars in certain parts of Lagos who own farms or livestock, we in Idi-Araba have no other business other than begging. This is our only way of life. We didn’t come to Lagos because we were displaced by insurgency or banditry, we chose to come to Lagos because it is more profitable begging here than anywhere else. “Many of us have been in Lagos for more than 30 years and have witnessed different government administrations. We hope the government will come to our aid by providing clothes, medicine and a better shelter for us. We have lost some of our women during childbirth and some of our children to illnesses, we need government’s help and individuals too.’’ As the interview endured, a dark-skinned girl with a wrapper tied around her small body peeped into the door less room and when the king heard her voice, he excitedly asked our correspondent to interview her in English. For eight-year-old Sadat Abdullahi, who is in basic two and Idris’ granddaughter, begging is the next thing after school hours every day. She said gently, “After school, I join my mother on the road to beg for money. I have been begging since I was small. I don’t want to remain a beggar like my mother when I grow up. I want to be a tailor when I grow up and I am already learning how to sew.” As the young girl talked, her grandparents chuckled excitedly. They were proud of her ability to speak English even though they didn’t understand what she said. Mariam Hamza is a dark, tall woman in her mid-thirties. She’s Hamza’s daughter, born in the house and lives there with her own young family. Mariam said, “I was born in this place and I started begging when I was little girl. I live in the house my three children and husband who buys and sells iron scraps. My kids go to school and after classes, they join me on the street to beg for alms. We can’t complain about the life we live. We are grateful because we know some people have it worse than us. All we can do is to work hard and God will take care of us. I don’t know any way of life than to beg. I didn’t attend school nor learn a trade. I have been begging in the area all my life. But I want my children to do something else.” She noted that they lacked many things in the area which made it difficult for them to lead an easy life. “We lack clean water and good shelter. Our children get sick easily because of the bad water and because they are exposed to harsh weather, especially at night. The pregnant women also among us need help with childbirth and medicine.” she said. Also speaking, Yusuf Idris, who is a middle-aged dark man with a conspicuous smile, said that his children weren’t with him in Lagos. He added, “My children do not live with me in Lagos. They stay in Kano State where I’m from. I don’t stay permanently in Lagos either. I work for a while because people give us alms here and then return to Kano afterwards to rest. As Hamza’s right-hand man, my job is to advise him when disputes arise among people in our community. He is an old man and doesn’t have the strength to attend to every issue. I help him to attend to problems that arise which aren’t serious. I don’t do anything else other than begging. It’s all I’ve been doing since I was a young boy in Kano. “I don’t want my children to do the same job. That’s why they attend school in the North.” He further said alms giving increased during Sallah, urging the government to assist by providing medicine and food for their children. Also, a tailor, Adam Hamisu, from the North, said his grandfather lived in Idi-Araba for many years. He added, “I was born in the area and all my life, these beggars have always been here. They don’t trouble anyone and people in the community help them one way or the other. I think they need government’s help.’’ Other beggar camps Occupants of the Okobaba Destitute Home including others at Owutu and Majidun-Ikorodu face the same harsh realities beggars in Mushin undergo on a daily basis. A beggar and leper, Mohammed Baba, who is also the secretary of the beggar’s colony at Okobaba and a graduate of the University of Maiduguri, Borno State lamented the situation of things in the camp. Baba, who said he studied at the University of Maiduguri, Borno State, said, “I’ve been living in this area for over 35 years. I have witnessed many administrations in the state. We need all the help we can get here. We need access to clean water, clothes, medicine and food; both cooked and raw.” A resident in the Ebute-Meta area of the state close to the Okobaba destitute camp, Abiodun Kazeem, said that the beggars constituted a nuisance in the community. Kazeem said, “I think it is high time the government found a solution to their activities. Their children are always hungry; they don’t have access to basic social amenities and depend on the goodwill of others. That is a danger to society especially with the rising insecurity in the country. Any terrorist group can recruit them as spies and the children may gladly do their bidding so long they are provided food.” Similar story among Ogun family beggars There are family beggars under the Arepo/Magboro bridges on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway who also look up to cheerful givers to survive. Scattered everywhere under the bridges are groups of different families who have turned the areas into their homes. Their colonies under the bridges have sleeping materials as decorations. Cartons, nylons and pieces of old clothing serve as sleeping materials. Flowing across the beggar colonies at Magboro, an open gutter runs with water which serves as a source for washing and bathing. Some of the beggars who live under the bridges with their families also use the water to wash their motorcycles  in readiness for the day. Like other beggar colonies in Lagos, the beggars under the bridges are divided into different groups based on their gender. It was observed that some of the children roam around the risky expressway to beg to support their parents. Through an interpreter, our correspondent spoke with 40-year-old beggar, Yunusa Adamu, who lives under the Magboro Bridge with his wife and two children. He said he came to Lagos  State from Jigawa State to find work, adding that unable to find anything to do he decided to stay under the bridge. He added that he was a cobbler in Jigawa but wanted to make more money so he could go into farming. Yunusa, who told Saturday PUNCH that he now survives through begging, noted that if he got a job. he would save towards his business plan. Yunusa said, “My wife and children join me to beg on the expressway and with the money we realise, we feed ourselves.’’ For Rakiya Ibrahim, she came to Lagos from Kano State solely to beg and the Magboro Bridge now serves as a home for her and her family. She said she had always been a beggar from when she was a child in Kano and it was the only way she knew to make money. Ibrahim said, “I have three children and they usually go to the expressway to beg with their older sister. My husband rides a commercial bike and also lives under the bridge with us.’’ Saturday PUNCH met with another beggar, Zainab Abubakar, who also lives under the Magboro Bridge with her two daughters. She stated that there were some men under the bridge who her daughters were exposed to, adding that she had no choice since they were in the place to beg for alms. She said, “Our children are exposed to the men but we have no choice. There’s nothing we can do other than tell our daughters to be careful of them. We keep an eye on them. People give us alms and we appreciate them for that.’’ Another beggar under the Magboro Bridge, Fatima Hassan, noted that begging was the only known way for her and her daughter. Her husband, like Rakiya’s, rides a commercial bike along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. Hassan said, “Our lives are hard. Our children because of lack of money cannot go to school.” A resident in the area, Idris Adeyemi, decried the presence of beggars under the Arepo/Magboro bridges. Adeyemi said, “Previously, there weren’t many beggars around the area. But over the years, they have increased and even raised families there. Their children are always hungry and roam the expressway begging.’’ Also, a resident around the Arepo area, Michael Aina, said that negligence drove the beggars to the under bridge. Aina added, “I don’t understand how people can act as if they don’t know the security risk the beggars constitute under the bridges. With the rising insecurity gradually seeping into the South, the state government needs to find a solution to the menace.’’ Govt, security expert on street begging Street begging is not encouraged in Lagos and Ogun states and laws made against it. In Ogun, violators are to sweep markets for two weeks. In 2016, The Senate moved to enact a law to make street begging illegal. The lawmaker representing Bauchi-Central Senatorial District, Isah Misau, who moved the motion titled, ‘Menace of Street Begging and the Need to Rehabilitate Beggars,’ expressed worry over street begging and the nuisance it constituted on city centres across the country.
Speaking on the matter, the Lagos State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotoso, said much had been done to get the beggars off the streets of Lagos but they kept returning. He said that since there was no way to monitor the coming in and leaving of people in Lagos, the beggars kept streaming into the state despite the government’s efforts to contain it. Omotoso said, “Lagos is like the New York of Nigeria and these beggars know it is profitable to come here to beg. This is why we have been advocating that every resident in Lagos State have LASRRA (Lagos State Residents Registration Agency) cards. That way, anyone registered and residing in the state can be on our database and we can cater for them. Most of these beggars don’t come to Lagos on their own. Some people bring them to Lagos and profit off them begging on the streets. We intend to arrest and make scapegoats of such people. If they are brought to face the law and made to pay a fine or serve a jail term, it will serve as a deterrent to others.’’ According to him, there is currently a law that prohibits begging and hawking on the streets of Lagos. “This law was set up because the activities of beggars don’t fit into the plans of the greater Lagos the government has planned,’’ he added. In his comment, the Spokesperson for the Ogun State Police Command, Abimbola Oyeyemi, said there was no directive to clear the beggars off the roads in the state since there had been no report about any of them being a criminal. He said, “As a Nigerian, everyone has the right to live and stay wherever they want in the country as long as they constitute no security threat or nuisance. If anyone has reasons why a group of people shouldn’t stay in a particular place, then let them report to the police and we’ll handle it.’’ Weighing in on the development, a security expert, Dr Ona Ekhomu, stated that there was endemic poverty in Nigeria, adding that with the issue, it would be easy for those without much by way of a future to be recruited as foot soldiers into terrorist groups. He stated, “However, they are still a part of our society. The easiest thing to do is to say don’t let these beggars in but it goes against the spirit of one Nigeria which is being advocated.’’ He added that if people were barred from entering a state because they’re beggars, then many people wouldn’t be able to enter certain parts of the country. Ekhomu stated. “There also is a constitutional warrant in the country that allows anyone to stay anywhere in the country without fear of being removed. The government of any state has no authority to not let people into a state because they’re beggars. There is no definition of who can enter a state. Until a person breaks or violates the law, they’re not outlaws. It is only when they go against the law that they can then be incarcerated or deported. “Those who are aliens should be rounded up and deported while those who are Nigerians among them should be enrolled in vocational schools like they used to do in the past in Lagos State. The law enforcement agencies have to carry out proper profiling of people and identify those beggars who are radicalised before they mix up with the innocuous ones and become a major security threat.’’ The security expert doing so was necessary because there were people who used some beggars as a means to finance terrorist groups. He added, “Part of terrorism operations is to have these beggar programmes whereby funds are sourced through beggars and then channeled up to the terrorist coffers. This has also been validated by the Inter-Governmental Action Group against Money Laundering and Terrorism Financing in West Africa and it is a source of concern.’’ He further said that using beggars as a means to fund terrorism was plausible since some bureau de change operators had been found to be a source for terrorism funding. Ekhomu added, “The problem with these claims is that no one can say for certain which beggars are being used by terrorists. Until a proper sting operation is carried out to identify the beggars, nothing concrete can be done.” He, however, said that the burden of liberal democracy required evidence of wrongdoing before a person could be deprived of their liberty. “Unless a statute is put in place to ban beggars from certain parts of a city, beggars can never be removed from the society,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com