THE Nigeria Labour Congress has opposed the proposal by the Nigeria Governors’ Forum that subsidy should be removed and petrol pump prices pegged at between N380 and N408 per litre. It described the recommendation as provocative, arbitrary and insensitive to the current economic realities in the country and the extreme hardship that Nigerians, especially workers were going through. The congress stated that any increase by even one cent in the price of petroleum products, especially Premium Motor Spirit “will attract an immediate withdrawal of services by Nigerian workers all over the country without any further notice.” According to a communiqué issued by the National Executive Committee of the NLC after its meeting in Abuja on Tuesday, the congress resolved to write officially to the Federal Government about the plight and concerns of workers on the NGF proposals as well as its stance on the matter. The statement signed by the NLC President, Ayuba Wabba, and the acting General Secretary, Ismail Bello, and made available to journalists in Abuja on Thursday, reiterated that the congress still stood solidly by its decision taken at its meeting on February 17, 2021, to reject further increases in the price of refined petroleum products. The NLC said there was currently no negotiation with the government over fuel price increase, adding that the last meeting with the government in February 2021 was adjourned indefinitely. The communiqué read in part, “The NEC-in-session also viewed the proposal by the Nigeria Governors’ Forum for a 300 per cent increase in the price of petrol as the height of provocation, arbitrariness, detachment and insensitivity to the current economic realities in the country and the extreme hardship that Nigerians, especially workers are going through.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com