THE Oyo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party, has said, its counterpart in the All Progressives Congress, has denied its members the opportunity to contest in the forthcoming Local Government Council elections. The state PDP Publicity Secretary, Mr. Akeem Olatunji, said this in an interview, with our correspondent, in Ibadan, on Sunday. The Oyo State Independent Electoral Commission fixed the local government elections for May 22. Governor Seyi Makinde, had sacked the elected council chairmen. Unsatisfied with the decision, the aggrieved chairmen challenged the decision up to the Supreme Court. A final judgment was being awaited when the date for new polls was announced. The APC said it would not participate in the election until the Supreme Court gave its judgement. However, the Apex court gave judgement on Friday. It ordered that the local government officials should be paid outstanding salaries and allowances from May 2019, when they were dissolved, till March 2022. Following this, ex-Governor Adebayo Alao-Akala, and other APC chieftains urged the governor to shift the polls. In response, the PDP spokesman said, “There is no reason for the postponement. We have 18 registered political parties and 17 are participating. Every party was approached and the OYSIEC visited the APC secretariat just like they visited other political parties. “Since they decided that they would not participate, it means they have shot themselves in the leg. I have never seen anywhere a party would boycott an election because there is a case in court. “They decided they would not participate and now they still want to benefit from their ineptitude, it is not fair on other political parties. If other parties start giving such excuses, it means the election will never hold.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com