In a country like Nigeria, where tuberculosis is very prevalent, the chance is that many people have tuberculosis, even without actually knowing. According to the World Health Organisation, two-thirds of the total global new TB cases in 2019, occurred in eight countries; India, Indonesia, China, the Philippines, Pakistan, Nigeria, Bangladesh and South Africa. TB is caused principally by Mycobacterium tuberculosis, which is a bacterium. These organisms causing TB are also known as tubercle bacilli, because they cause tubercles, and also as acid-fast bacilli because when stained with certain dyes and examined under the microscope, they appear red, due to their peculiar ability to retain that dye after being washed with acid and alcohol. TB can infect most organs, but the most commonly infected organ is the lung. TB of the lung is called pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB) while it is called extra-pulmonary tuberculosis (EPTB), when it affects other organs. PTB is transmitted from person to person when the infected person coughs, sneezes, laughs and even sings. A single cough can release up to 3000 infectious particles called droplet nuclei, which can remain suspended in the air for a long period and still be infective. Tuberculosis is regarded as the disease of poor people but it will be erroneous to believe that rich people cannot have it. Even though malnutrition and tuberculosis are like siamese twins, malnutrition leads to the weakening of immune response which in essence increases an individual susceptibility to infections. At the same time, the risk of the droplet nuclei causing TB disease, when inhaled by an uninfected person, depends on their concentration in the ambient air and the length of time that uninfected person is exposed to that air. From the foregoing, it means that the risk of an uninfected person developing TB disease depends on how well-aerated the place is and how long the person stayed in that place. An example of a place that TB thrives well is inside air-conditioned cars or rooms; with the windows closed, such that the air in that enclosure is severally circulated by the air-conditioning system. But the risk of TB transmission is highest in PTB cases diagnosed with their sputum tests yielding the bacilli. This means transmissions are lower in sputum smear-negative PTB cases and even much lower in EPTB cases. This can be put in proper perspective by imagining, the driver of a ‘big man’ having tuberculosis and he persistently coughs while driving the man in an air-conditioned car. In this instance, the concentration of the droplet nuclei, in the air, may be at a level at which the ‘big man’ can develop TB as well, especially, if the exposure is long enough. This applies also to when TB infected person boards a commercial vehicle with others and the windows of the vehicle are closed, especially, when rain is falling, as a way of avoiding being wet by raindrops or when the vehicle is air-conditioned. Also, when a domestic worker infected with TB works or lives in an air-conditioned home with his or her employers. Though, the terms, TB infection and TB disease appear similar, but they cannot be used interchangeably, because they are different. TB infection occurs, the moment a previously uninfected person inhaled the droplet nuclei. But the vast majority of the people will remain symptomless for a very long time and even throughout their lifetime. This is because in most cases the multiplication of the bacilli would be halted by the immune response. But a few dormant bacilli may persist. And in cases where the immune response is not able to stop the multiplication, it is then that the TB infection will progress to TB disease with associated development of TB symptoms. In conclusion, it will be misleading, for anyone to believe that TB is a disease of the poor. So, it is pertinent for anyone coughing to develop the habit of covering their coughs with disposable tissues (not reusable handkerchief!) or better for them to make use of a facemask that covers their noses and mouths whenever they cough. It should be noted that whether treated or not, most coughs stop before two weeks from its onset. However, for coughs that persist beyond two weeks, a doctor should be seen, who if suspecting TB will order a Genexpert or sputum AFB tests which are the most commonly used to diagnose TB. The parting message is that facemasks, as popularised by the COVID-19 pandemic, should be perpetually part of our daily dressing, as a way of curbing the spread of TB. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com