DOCTORS at the National Hospital, Abuja, are currently battling to save the life of a Bolt driver, Moses Adoyi, who was shot on the head by a yet-to-be identified man who posed as a passenger. The suspect had attempted to snatch his car. The PUNCH gathered that the passenger had through the mobile application, requested for Adoyi’s services. The driver was said to have picked him up around Dutse area of the Federal Capital Territory and was told by the passenger that he would be picking up his girlfriend somewhere else. Adoyi’s colleague, Godswill Igwe, told our correspondent on Wednesday that the passenger attempted to snatch Adoyi’s car, “The driver initially was hesitant to go for the trip but the passenger pleaded with him and he embarked on that trip. “When they got to where he was supposed to pick his girlfriend, which he said was a very lonely place, the passenger made a phone call and was having a discussion with his girlfriend. “Adoyi said he threatened to drive off if the lady in question does not show up in about five minutes. An argument ensued between the two of them and he pulled out his gun and pulled the trigger. “He managed to speed off without him accomplishing his mission which he said was to snatch his car. “He was able to get to a police post where he was taken to the hospital by the police on duty. He was first rejected at Kubwa General Hospital and Gwagwalada before he was taken to the National Hospital where he is receiving treatment.” When our correspondent visited Adoyi at the hospital on Wednesday to narrate his ordeals, he pleaded not to speak until he has fully recovered. The police spokesperson in the FCT, Mariam Yusuf, confirmed the incident, saying the command was on the trail of the suspect. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com