Many children on Thursday trooped to the Bola Tinubu Model Market, Iyana Ipaja, Lagos State, where the founder and Chairman, Relief Africa Charity,  Aderemi Adejokun, hosted them in commemoration of this year’s Children’s Day. Addressing the children, Adejokun said, “As a child, I went through physical and mental abuse from my dad. Notable was when I was 14. I was asleep and my dad hit my head with a bottle of beer, saying I ate all the meat from the pot of stew. That’s not the way to raise children. This is why I vowed to make it right for children all over Africa. “I thank the AD King Foundation, Atlanta, Georgia; my family and all my friends for being there to support me in this cause. My dream is to build a home for all children and to eradicate any trace of lack from the lives of African children – the ones in the wheelchair and the ones with no one to care for them – because they have special needs.” She advised parents and guardians to show love to all children, whether theirs or otherwise, and ensure that they put a smile on the faces of humanity and not complain about money as the reason not to give. Adejokun stated, “Nigerians love to complain too much. A lot of people will say, ‘I don’t have money!’ but there’s always something you can give. I always tell people that when you give, you are planting seeds that will be multiplied back to you and your generation. “My daughter’s dad just died of COVID-19, but I am still here to celebrate with these children. It is an honour that God chose me to do His work; the work of salvation. The feeling I get from what I do for these kids is priceless; nothing else compares. This is why we have been on this for well over 15 years.” The Coordinator, Nigeria, Relief Africa, Mr Felix Ogunmola, charged other people to buy into the vision of the organisation and seek ways to put a smile on the faces of children around them. “We have been to the Modupe Cole Orphanage, Akoka; SOS Children’s Village, Isolo; Living Orphanage, Lekki; Heart of Gold, Onilegogoro, Surulere, and other homes in Ado-Ekiti and outside Nigeria. All we do is to make sure that we share all the love we can to all these children, so as to build a generation of children who’ll learn to love themselves and everyone else irrespective of tribe, tongue, race, religion and sex,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com