The Federal Government on Wednesday handed over 40 operational vehicles for distribution to coordinators of the State COVID-19 Action Recovery And Economic Stimulus known as NG-CARES. The Minister of Humanitarian Affairs, Disaster Management and Social Development, Sadiya Farouq, said the vehicles were procured by the Federal Project Support Unit of her ministry. She handed over the vehicles to the Minister of State for Budget and National Planning, Clem Agba, at the Eagle Square, Abuja, for distribution to states and the Federal Capital Territory. The NG-CARES is the Federal Government initiative with support from the World Bank to mitigate the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. Farouq thanked the World Bank for coming to the aid of the poor and vulnerable people of Nigeria affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. She said, “I want to, on behalf of the President and the people of Nigeria, appreciate the World Bank for this wonderful gesture of coming to the aid of the poor and vulnerable people of Nigeria and businesses that were affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. “I strongly believe that the vehicles that are being inaugurated today will go a long way in assisting the state coordinators of the programme in carrying out the herculean task of alleviating the suffering of ordinary people across the country. Farouq said there was no doubt that the assistance from the World Bank would impact on the beneficiaries as well as contribute to the rebuilding of the economy and prosperity in Nigeria. In his remark, Agba assured the humanitarian minister that the programme under the National COVID-19 Action Recovery and Economic Stimulus would assist vulnerable Nigerians who were hit by the pandemic. He said, “The Federal Government has approved the NG-CARES stimulus programme which  is a multi-sectoral programme designed to provide immediate emergency relief to poor Nigerians, smallholder farmers and MSMEs adversely affected by COVID-19 pandemic using the World Bank grant of  $750m over a period of two years, from 2021-2023.” He said each state would receive $20m over a period of two years, while the FCT would get $15m and the Federal Care Support would get $15m with effect from June 30, 2021. He noted that the handover of the vehicles was preparatory to the implementation of the NG-CARES programme. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com