The Federal Government has maintained its stand to flush out unqualified teachers in all government and private schools across the country. This came as close to 17,141 teachers across the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory wrote the Professional Qualifying Examination organised by the Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria. Supervising the examination in Abuja, the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Education,  Sonny Echono, explained that the move was to ensure professionalism. He said people without teaching qualifications should not be employed as teachers. Echono said, “We have commenced the process of enforcing and implementing the policy of allowing only qualified teachers in all our schools and will thereafter move to private schools. “We are already in good discussions with both states and private proprietors to ensure that this is done because this is the single largest investment you can make to your country’s  future generation in ensuring that they get quality education.” He added that the conduct of the examination was seamless with the introduction of technology. Echono also disclosed that the ministry was working with the Ministry of Communications and Digital Economy, National Identity Management Commission and other agencies that acquire data to have a situation where identities of primary school children are stored as soon as they register in any school in the country. He also spoke on the new salary structure approved for teachers. “And again, we have commenced the implementation of this, we are working closely with the head of service and she’s been wonderful and very supportive and salaries and wages commission too as we speak, computing those rural allowances, science allowances, hazards and so on to ensure that teachers get their reward here on earth and not hereafter,” he said. The acting Director of the Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria, Mrs Jacinta Ogboso, disclosed that about 17,141 candidates were to participate in the Batch A examination nationwide. She also disclosed that Osun State had the highest number of candidates, adding that the needs of  teachers with special  needs would be addressed. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com