Where were you when your daughter was crushed by a vehicle? I saw how the accident happened.  My office is very close to the spot where my wife sells cosmetics and jewellery. I work as a lawyer’s secretary. I was in the office at Oja Jagun area, close to Soun Palace. The office is a one-storey building. We just registered her in a nursery school last week. She was two years old on March 30. She started going to school on Monday and the incident happened on Thursday just four days after. We paid the school fee, the lesson fee and we had paid for the school uniform and the tailor had taken her measurement in the hope that the uniform would be delivered this week. The school told her mother to come and pick her around 1pm that Thursday because of the Parents-Teachers’ Association meeting slated for that day. One of her teachers called me around 1.15pm that nobody had come to pick her and I went down to where my wife was trading to tell her to go and pick the girl from school. The mother went and picked her. Not long after she brought her back to the place where she was, I heard sirens and rushed out to the balcony, which overlooks the street. I was selling thins at the convoy of vehicles, I saw the governor’s convoy and the car which hit her was among many other vehicles that followed the convoy to the PDP rally. The car overtook some vehicles in the long convoy at that spot and suddenly swerved to where my wife and the child were seated. Were they on the road? No. They were selling their things behind the culvert. Where they sell is after the culvert. The car swerved and climbed the culvert to the place and crushed her. Were your daughter and your wife the only people there? No. My mother-in-law and some other persons were there as well. My wife was injured on the hand, my mother-in-law fell and hit her nose against an object there. My mother in-law was selling fruits there as well.  The girl was in her arms when the vehicle climbed the culvert and flung the child out of her hands and crushed her. The grandmother also fell and sustained injuries while my wife also sustained an injury on her hand. It was like a dream. Seeing what happened, what did you do? I rushed down there to attend to them, but I found my daughter was lifeless. I saw how the thing happened and it was a gory sight.  I was crying; everybody was crying; the sight was gory. I was so scared and I quickly called my elder brother. He and some sympathisers carried the girl’s corpse to the campaign ground. My siblings have refused to allow me to see photographs of her corpse because they said it would cause me grief again. Where is the driver of the car? He was arrested and detained at the Owode Police Station. They first denied that the car was not part of their convoy. We went to the police station and wrote a statement and the policemen there asked us if there was any evidence to link the car to the governor’s convoy. We asked them to assign a policeman to lead us to the car and search inside it. We went to the car and searched inside it and we found a compact disc of a song made by a singer for Governor Seyi Makinde and Auxiliary, we found it on the seat of the car. We took the photographs. What is name of the driver? The police gave his name as Alade Nurudeen. We searched for the name on the Internet and it brought out details about him, including his photographs. Is he an appointee of the governor? No. He is one of the park managers that followed the governor to Ogbomoso for the campaign. He was detained at the police station till Monday. So many people started coming to us, pleading that we should not take any legal action on the accident. But to my surprise, when we got to the police yesterday, I was given a sheet of paper to write a letter. What letter? I also asked them the same question. They said it was letter of withdrawal. I was surprised. Are they the ones to instruct me to write such a letter?  I asked them to give me some time. I was surprised because we had not told them we wanted to withdraw anything. They just called me on the phone and three of us went there when they asked me to withdraw the matter. Where did that happen? It happened at the police station in Owode, Ogbomoso. We got there and the man gave me a paper and asked me to write my address and he said he would tell me how to write it. We do not intend to institute legal action against the driver because we believe what has happened cannot be reversed. But it was surprising that before telling the police our intention, the officer asked us to withdraw the matter. He even took us to the DPO at the station. The DPO was also persuading us to do the same. We informed those who rallied round us when the incident happened and they were angry. Some PDP leaders have been coming and they told us that the governor said he would come and visit us. They gave us some money. They said the governor did not ask them to give us any money but they decided to do that because they knew the family would need money to do some things at this period, especially because the mother of the child would not resume to her trade immediately.  One man known as Ogunwuyi led them and he gave me the money N 500,000. Did you have any premonition about the incident? There was nothing like that. I never thought that something close to that would happen to me that day. The girl was full of life, she was not sick. But we believe that God cannot be questioned. Do you have other children apart from her? I don’t have any other child. She was my firstborn and the only one for now.  I pray God will bless me with other children who will live long. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com