The call from the Presidency for the salaries of public workers to be slashed, if true, would be one of the most ridiculous things to do and would show the height of insensitivity possessed by this government. I have read it on newspapers, and my conclusion was that it cannot be true but the more I meet people, the more I hear the same story, pointing to the fact that it could actually be true. Acute insensitivity on the part of the presidency would be an understatement if they have actually given it a thought. If there is any salary to be slashed, it should be those of the political office holders who are on humongous salaries every month for doing huge amount of nothing. And I believe the presidency should lead the line, followed by the National Assembly, while others like the ministers, governors, commissioners and local government chairmen do the same. This will be leadership by example. In fact, there are people who on their own should voluntarily donate their salaries for the upkeep of the nation and the indigent citizens because some of them already have bottomless pockets and can afford to stay without salaries for the next decade and would be very okay. Although I know very well it would be living in a wonderland to think that would happen in this country. How much is the salary of a level 8 civil servant in Nigeria? Have the states started the implementation of the new minimum wage of a pint-sized N30,000 monthly and like people usually ask, does the “take home pay” really take people home? How on earth can someone with good thinking cap come up with such a ridiculous and callous rant which has the capacity to trigger pandemonium in an already toxic environment? Is it that some people choose to make some utterances just to have enough likes and comments or they are delusional? We are already facing a crisis in all ramification including crisis of confidence by the ruling class, people are in dire situations that they cannot even figure a way out and some will even find succour in a square meal if they can find it, yet, what we see every day are utterances that are inimical to our existence as a people. David Owaboye, President, Initiative for Global Change, 8 Kusimo Street, Aguda, Surulere, Lagos State, 08033252129: Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com