drtayooke@gmail.com Significant column inches have already been devoted to the intractable issue of ‘open grazing’ here and elsewhere in the last couple of years, and quite rightly so. It is thus with some reluctance that the topic is being flagged up here again for the umpteenth time. In view of the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami’s pronouncement on the issue a few days ago, on May 19, 2021, that Fulani headers’ right to open grazing is guaranteed under the constitution, it became imperative that this column takes issue with him over the law. It is often said that where law ends, anarchy reigns. The Attorney General of the Federation, and Chief Law Officer to the Buhari regime has flung the door wide open to anarchy by his inversion of the law on open grazing. Malami said on TV: “It is about constitutionality, within the context of the freedoms enshrined in our constitution, can you deny a right of a Nigerian?” The Attorney General is not a man known for weighing his words carefully, apart from the fact that he lets politics get in the way of his judicial thinking much too often. Does the right to open grazing apply in equal measure to, say, a pigs’ farmer roaming freely inside the confines of neighbourhood yards, and cities in parts of the North? Or, a goat header trampling on any land he sees fit for his stock? The Attorney General, please note; there is no such thing as an absolute right enshrined anywhere in the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, not even the right to life itself. There is a problem when the exercise of one person’s right infringes on the right and liberty of another. The second issue is about power over land, and whether the southern governors need to seek to amend the constitution in order to effect a ban on open grazing. That is the view of Malami. He is fundamentally wrong on that too. The Land Use Decree 1978 expressly states: “All land comprised in the territory of each State in the Federation are hereby vested in the Military Governor of that State and such land shall be held in trust and administered for the use and common benefit of all Nigerians in accordance with the provisions of this Decree”. We no longer have military governors, of course, civilian governors are now walking in their shoes. The decree has made its way into the fabrics of the constitution, and now firmly established as Act of the National Assembly. It has been so woven into the fabrics of the constitution that it is almost impossible to amend, let alone overturn. Consequently, governors, be it of the South or North, not only have the right, but an obligation to act as trustees of the land in their territories. It is submitted, therefore, that it is the Attorney General of the Federation (not the governors) who must seek to amend the constitution to nullify the southern governors’collective policy of a ban on open grazing in their territories. As things stand, cattle rustlers can ply their trade on any land, anywhere in the country unhindered by anyone, according to Malami. Is the Attorney General saying that cattle rustlers have an inherent right to trespass on other people’s land without consequence? Really? The AG has unwittingly created a state of anarchy where everyone would naturally want to protect and jealously guard their privacy and property. By consequence, they would resort to self-help in order to accomplish that. It is the classic Hobbesian state, where everyone is an island entirely of itself. Cattle rustlers can migrate from North to South, enter a farmer’s backyard at will, graze, and damage crops, then, saunter off as if nothing happened. What about the farmer’s exclusive right to his land and livelihood? What is a state governor supposed to do in order to protect lives and property in his domain? Fold his arms and send a text to the Attorney General? Malami’s public utterances on this and other similarly significant public law events have fallen short of the high standard of reasoning normally associated with the office he occupies. He does not appear to see his himself principally as a law officer, rather, as a party hack. He has brought his office to ridicule on a number of occasions (see, for examples, “Malami: Legally incoherent, fundamentally flawed”, The PUNCH, January 30, 2020, and “Maina’s disappearance: Albatross around Malami’s neck”, The PUNCH, December 1, 2020). On this occasion, the learned silk has sought to draw an analogy between banning open grazing in the southern states with banning the sale of spare parts in the north. Spare part dealers are legitimate traders, but are predominantly of the Igbo ethnic stock.It is clearly a comparison between apples and oranges; a failed attempt at beclouding the issue with an opaque reference to ethnicity. This pedestrian response to the burning issue of the day, from a Senior Advocate of Nigeria, let alone the Attorney General of the Federation, is simply mindboggling. It is difficult to pin down exactly whose interest the Attorney-General is protecting without opening up a can of worms. It seems clear, however, that he is not upholding the wider public’s interest in this instance. What is even more worrying is the fact that the normal checks and balances weaved into the apparatus of governance do not appear to be working in Nigeria. The Attorney General’s place at the heart of government is as secure as it has ever been. We do not see reaction, for instance, from the Senate Committee on Judiciary, neither do we hear anything from the Bar Council holding the Chief Law Officer to account. Ultimately though, the question, the battle, is not going to be legal but political. It does not matter a dime what the feckless Attorney-General does or says, it matters more where the public stands on the issue. Open grazing has become a euphemism for lawlessness, clannishness and brigandage. It is tapping into a dangerous narrative that, in Buhari’s Nigeria, there is one law for a section of the population, and another for the others. For the moment at least, the pushback on that is being spearheaded by the political elite themselves. But, soon, it will spill over onto the streets, and the bushes, leaving bloodshed and mayhem in its wake. It is part of a larger ongoing battle for the soul of Nigeria. To ameliorate the outcome, the 17 governors must not relent; they must up the ante as it were. The collective ban on open grazing must be put into effect forthwith. Otherwise, they will have been exposed to public ridicule themselves with devastating consequences for their reputation and authority. The prediction from this column – for whatever it is worth – is that the open grazing saga will re-energise the push and shove of the North versus South conundrum, but will end in a closing of ranks by the ruling clique. Those hoping for more must pitch their tenth elsewhere. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com