Indications emerged on Saturday that the inability of the Governor of Cross River State, Senator Ben Ayade, to take control of the structure of the Peoples Democratic Party in his state forced him to defect to the All Progressives Congress. Ayade last Thursday defected from the PDP to the ruling party. He announced the decision after a closed-door meeting, which lasted over one hour, with six APC governors at the Executive Chamber of the Governor’s Office in Calabar. Speaking during the defection, Ayade said, “We need to join hands with President (Muhammadu) Buhari in his determination to enhance the fortunes of the country. Meanwhile, two Supreme Court judgments were recently delivered in favour of members of the National Assembly caucus of the state. The caucus is made up of the members of the PDP in the state. Investigations by our correspondents showed that the judgment confirmed the March 7 and 20, 2020 list of the ward and chapter executives congresses released by the PDP National Working Committee. The list, dated April 26, 2020, was signed by the party’s National Organising Secretary, Col Austin Akobundu (retd.). The apex court’s pronouncement thereby gave the control of the party structure at the ward and state executive levels to the PDP National Assembly members and other stakeholders in the state. Also, the second judgment by the Supreme Court gave victory to Jarigbe Agom Jarigbe over Stephen Odey. Odey, the candidate of the governor for the Cross River Senatorial seat in the Senate, is also believed to be holding forth for the governor who might want to return to the Senate after the expiration of his second term in 2023. The second judgment, according to political watchers, is believed to have nailed Ayade’s ambition. It is also believed that the governor was not pleased with the outcome of the cases and that they had pushed him aside in the running of the party in the state. “He thought that these two pronouncements might have made it impossible for him to choose his successor from the PDP, hence his decision to leave,” a source close to the party in the state told Sunday PUNCH. Ayade voiced out his frustrations a few weeks ago when the Governor of Bauchi State, Senator Bala Mohammed, visited the state and dropped hints of his possible exit from the party if things were not corrected. “I have always played politics with ethics. But, over time, I have realised that ethical politics is often taken for weakness. It is time to put our foot down on the basis of what will benefit our collective well-being,” Ayade said. However, a member of the National Working Committee of the PDP, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said there was no way the party would have sacked elected officers of the party in the state. In a similar vein, the official also said it was impossible to sack the elected officials of the party in Edo State as being canvassed by some individuals in the state. He said, “The PDP abides by its constitution, not what an individual wants. This two–time governor wanted the executive of a successful and completed congress in his state dissolved, but the party refused. We followed the constitution to avoid litigations and he simply opted to excuse himself from the PDP. We wish him well. “Also in Edo State, the PDP executive cannot be dissolved for the same reason. The PDP is bigger than any individual. It is this same party that gave these governors the platform to emerge and they want to destroy the constitutional process. Meanwhile, the Cross River State PDP on Saturday alleged the forceful takeover of its secretariat by the governor and that he wanted to convert it to the APC secretariat. According to a statement signed by the state chairman, PDP Caretaker Committee, Effiok Cobham, the thugs prevented members of the newly constituted state caretaker committee from accessing the secretariat and destroyed vital documents of the PDP. The statement was titled, ‘Press Statement by the PDP Caretaker Committee in Cross River State in Reaction to the Trespass and Forceful Takeover of the Cross River State PDP Secretariat by Governor Ben Ayade.’ It read, “This morning (Saturday), armed policemen cordoned off the Cross River State PDP Secretariat at 42 Murtala Mohammed Highway, Calabar, and created a cover for thugs from the Governor Ben Ayade faction of the APC to invade the PDP state secretariat with the intention of converting the property to the state secretariat of the APC. “Currently, properties of the PDP, especially vital documents and records, that have been built up for over 20 years, are vandalised, destroyed or in the custody of Governor Ben Ayade. Members of the newly constituted PDP state caretaker committee have been prevented from accessing the property by APC thugs and men of the Nigeria Police. The building is currently being painted in the colours of the APC. However, the Cross River State government and the All Progressives Congress have justified the acquisition of the secretariat of the PDP, saying PDP is laying false claim to the property. A press statement titled ‘Former PDP secretariat is a rented property, rent renewed three months ago by Governor Ayade who has decamped to APC’, issued on Saturday by the Special Adviser, Media and Publicity to the Governor, Christian Ita, said, “The attention of Cross River State government and the state chapter of the All Progressives Congress has been drawn to a poorly scripted statement by the caretaker committee of the dead and now buried Peoples Democratic party, PDP in the state. “The statement is nothing but a tissue of lies and a cocktail of fraudulent claims. Obviously, this leadership of the PDP led by Effiok Cobham is driven by greed, avarice and laziness. It is a tactless and clueless leadership. “The puerile statement was an infantile attempt to mislead the public and whip up undeserved public sympathy. But Cobham and his gang failed woefully. “First, the said property is a rented property which is not owned by the PDP. It will interest the public to know that the rent for the said property was only renewed three months ago by the same PDP that has now totally collapsed into the APC. “The same former officials of the PDP who occupied the property when it was secretariat of the PDP are the persons still occupying it having switched allegiance and moved to the APC with the governor. So, the claim by Cobham of forceful entry is fraudulent and criminal and should be ignored.” Meanwhile, the landlord of the secretariat of the PDP in Cross River State has denied knowledge of the acquisition of the property by the APC. Reacting, the landlord in a statement signed by his estate administrator, Lawrence Asuquo and made available to journalists, said PDP remains his tenant. He said, “My attention has been drawn to the fact that the property situated at 42A Murtala Muhammad Highway, Calabar which PDP holds as the tenant is presently being painted with APC colours. “On behalf of the Estate of E. A. Lawrence and myself as the administrator, I hereby state that PDP’s tenancy with the family is still subsisting and they remain my legal and recognised tenant.” The police have also waded into the matter through a warning in a statement by the state Commissioner of Police, Sikiru Akande, against any breach of the peace. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com