The Lagos State Commissioner for Education, Mrs Folashade Adefisayo, has advised teachers to always help every child perform excellently. Adefisayo, who spoke in Lagos at the 2021 Africa Top School Awards, maintained that every child would do well academically if teachers brought out the best in them. She said, “Every child deserves to do well, every child has a star in him, something close to perfection is in every child and as a teacher, you are to help every child perform well. The reality today is that we are not getting good teachers. If you tell our young graduates to write a letter, they cannot. Teaching is not a career of choice, the students do not want to come in. The teachers are administrators who will take the children to the heights they should be. “There is a lot in the curriculum that is not relevant to the day-to-day activities  of our students. There is also the inadequate implementation of the curriculum, which is also too theoretical. Teachers should equip children with the skills to make right decisions.” During the award presentation, the Ambassador of Africa Top Schools was Mr Segun Oloketuyi; at the school category;  Nigerian Tulip International Colleges, Ogun Marists Brothers’ Juniorate, Uturu, Abia State Dowen College Lekki Albesta Academy, Ajah, The Crescent International High School, Sango- Ota,  Queens’ College Yaba, Ogunmodede Senior College Epe and Ijaiye Ojokoro Senior High School, Ijaiye Ojokoro were the winners. African Outstanding Educational Administrators awardees were Mrs Margaret Solarin  and Mrs Anike Adekanye ; the African Top Most Outstanding Educational Administrator was Mrs Ayandele  Abiose,  while the Outstanding Principal of The Year Award was given to Dr T.F.O. Yakubu-Oyinloye  and Mrs Abisoye Ogunmokun. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com