Popular Nollywood actress and filmmaker, Toyin Abraham, with teary eyes, has cleared the air about her frosty relationship with her colleague, Lizzy Anjorin. The misunderstanding between the duo began in September 2019 when an Instagram blog reported that Anjorin was ‘held and searched for drug peddling’ during her hajj trip to Saudi Arabia. After her ordeal, it was gathered that Anjorin’s investigations revealed that Toyin Abraham ‘leaked’ the story to blogs. Ever since then, the pair has had a sour relationship. Recently, the old wound was reopened during an interview Anjorin had with a social media influencer, Esabod. It appears, during the interview, some abusive words were said toward Abraham’s husband and son. Reacting to the incident, Abraham, during an Instagram Live session with her colleague, Iyabo Ojo, cleared the air. Abraham noted that she was not the person that reported Anjorin to the law enforcement angents as she held a Bible to prove her innocence. She said, “Since I gave birth to my child, you have been bullying him. Let the whole mothers in this world come out and blame me for this single thing that I stood up for my son. Let the whole world blame me for this. “I did not talk or say anything, but for this, I will stand up for my son. When the incident happened with Liz Anjorin, I did not know about it because it was during that time that I put to bed. They did not let me have my phone because I had just delivered my baby. “It was after about two months that they gave me my phone and I saw all the messages, and hers was part of it. This is the Holy Bible that I am holding; let the Holy Bible judge me. “It is so funny because Lizzy is not my friend and I do not know her; Saudi or no Saudi, I have never heard of it. How do I know her movement?” Abraham further stated that although Anjorin is her colleague in the movie industry, their paths have only crossed twice. She insisted that she had never spilled the beans of her colleagues to any blogger as alleged by Anjorin. She said, “What is my own with Lizzy. I have seen Lizzy just twice in my life. The first time was at Regina Chukwu’s job and the second time was at Wasilat Coded’s premiere. I do not know about her movement and God is my witness. I have only seen her twice. “I do not know about her movement. I am speaking up now, let the whole world hear. I am speaking up because of my son. The last one they did, I could not talk because I just gave birth; but now, I have to talk and speak up for my son. They cannot lay curses on my son. Besides, if I do not stand up for my son, who will stand up for my son? “Since the day they have been cursing me and peddling rumours about me, I never said a word; but today, it was too much and I need to stand up for my son. I have never spoken to any blogger and the only one I spoke to was Instablog and we did an advert with them. I have never spoken to a blogger to run anyone down.” The filmmaker noted that she is blessed and contented with her life and, therefore, has no reason to wish her colleague bad. She said, “My husband and I have two houses. We live in our own house and we have another in Ibadan. God has blessed us; I am not beefing anyone and I do not have a problem with anybody. God is my witness. I do not know where all this is coming from. I have never spoken about this but I want every parent on earth to judge this matter. They should ask Lizzy to state what I did; she should talk. If I offended you, call me. “That woman kept cursing my son and husband. You can curse me but do not curse my son. I have never discussed Lizzy’s matter with anyone; we are not friends. God see me. I have never done that in my life. The reason why I had to speak up is because it is becoming too much and this is my son they are talking about. I have to speak up for my son. “If I cannot speak up for my son and husband, then why am I a mother or a wife? I have never had any negative thoughts towards anyone.”