It is a beautiful season for Chelsea. Almost like the proverbial rejected stone, they have suddenly become the edge of the corner. Based on how they were pervasively unfavourably rated before the Saturday’s Champions League fiasco, one can liken their triumph over Manchester City to that of David over Goliath. While millions of people are savouring the outcome of the match and the dramas that continue to greet it, however, some of us are likely to be surprised when we come across expressions such as ‘Chelsea have won’, ‘Chelsea are wonderful’, ‘Chelsea surprise you when you think they are down’. Such people are provoked to ask: why ‘have’ and ‘are’ after Chelsea instead of ‘has’ and ‘is’? The fact is that the structure (Chelsea + are/have) continues to sound so strange that some readers or listeners still consider it a mistake on the part of the user. British vs American English First, note that the ‘Chelsea have’ expressions are correct. They are an integral part of British English which considers the teams involved as a function of individual players acting independently.  It sees them as active parts of a group. Well, this is more of a grammatical argument; so, don’t bother to say that all the players are playing as a team, following the coach’s instruction. The fact, as we have in the British English, is that the players have independent lives, meaning that the club is considered a plural entity. This is unlike what we have in American English which considers the team as a unit: Chelsea are a great team. (Correct, British English) Chelsea is a great team. (Correct, American English.) Real Madrid have hired David Alaba. (Correct, British English.) Real Madrid has hired David Alaba. (Correct, American English.) Collective nouns On a broader note, there is a good number of collective nouns from various fields which both variants (British and American English) treat as they do the names of the sports clubs. Among them is ‘team’ itself. While the British press will say ‘The team have won’, their American counterpart normally prefer, ‘The team has won.’ It is the same way committee, family, orchestra etc. would be treated. Yet, there is something you should note about many of the collective nouns. Whether in British or American English, they may take singular or plural verbs depending on the context. Consider ‘class’: The class IS silent. (Correct) The class ARE quarelling among themselves. (Correct). National teams Names of national teams are also treated like those of clubs in terms of the verbs they attract: The Super Eagles need to look inwards. The Bafana Bafana are being reorganised. In both cases, plural verbs (have and are) have been used with the national teams despite the fact that each is a single name. It is the British English character that is still at play here because what we have in the American counterpart is ‘Super Eagles needs’ and ‘Bafana Bafana is’.  Indeed, the same applies even when the country’s name is made to refer to its team: Nigeria are playing Cameroon tomorrow. France have started training for World Cup. While the above is British, the American has: Nigeria (referring to the Super Eagles) is playing Cameroon tomorrow. France has started training for World Cup. Yet, you must note that, whether in British English or American, once the country’s name is not referring to the team, you must treat it as singular: Nigeria are facing serious economic problems – to the extent that the Federal Government has started borrowing from recovered loot. (Wrong) Nigeria is facing serious economic problems – to the extent that the Federal Government has started borrowing from recovered loot. (Correct) Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com