The Chairman of Nigeria’s Governors’ Forum, Dr Kayode Fayemi, has advised Nigerian youths to quit social media politics and get involved in real politics that will connect them with the people if they are serious about effecting
changes in the country. Fayemi, who is the Ekiti State Governor, said this in the goodwill message he delivered in Ibadan on Friday at the National Security and Peace symposium to mark the 45th birthday of a member of House of Representatives, representing Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Iwajowa/Kajola Federal Constituency, Shina Peller. He said Peller had performed creditably well and had impacted the lives of the people of his constituency, the state and the country, saying the youths should emulate him. He said, “If we want to make a difference, our young ones cannot just remain Twitter revolutionaries. They have to be on the ground, they have to be in their wards, they have to be in their constituencies. They have to be involved in real politics with the people in order to really connect themselves beyond just writing and be active on Twitter and Facebook “They have to cease to be paper weight politicians by being in the midst of the people.” Speaking on the insecurity in the country, Fayemi said Nigeria could overcome its challenges with sincerity and determination to tackle the problem. He stated that countries with worse problems than these overcame theirs because they were sincere about solving their problems. Fayemi said, “Our country is going through a lot of challenges but these challenges are not insurmountable. They are challenges that can be overcome. Countries that have been in far deeper problem in the past overcame their challenges. “If we are singleminded and demonstrate sincerity of purpose, if we are committed about transforming Nigeria for the better and understanding our challenges, if we are honest, purpose driven and determined, we will put behind us, all the triggers of violence in the land be it insurgency, banditry, kidnapping, armed robbery, “As long as we are tough on the crime and criminality, we must also be tough on the causes of the crime. We all know those causes of the crime that have been in our country. “Inequality is clearly a major cause, poverty is another and unemployment is the one we all see. When you see what my brother (Peller) has done in the House of Representatives and in his constituency in terms of poverty eradication, in terms of community empowerment and bridging the gap between the privileged and the less privileged in our community, you will know that this is an indication of what he can do if he is saddled with higher responsibility.” The Dean, Multi-disciplinary Studies, University of Ibadan, Prof. Olawale Albert, who was the guest lecturer said Nigeria had become a huge slaughter slab and that no part of it was safe as criminals daily roam about killing, manning and kidnapping many. Albert said, “On the balance, it is argued here that there is little the international community can do to help Nigeria when the country is not doing enough to help itself. Hence, what matters most at this moment is for Nigeria now to start investing more on its whole of nation, society and nation approaches. “The most strategic is the whole of the national approach. Once a nation is formed from the multiplicity of sub-nationalities now competing for the ownership and management of Nigeria, every other things would fall in place. In other words, the country must first become a nation for the whole of the government and other approaches to work. “Having sustainable peace and security in this respect requires doing everything that could be done to win back the hearts and minds of Nigeria. “Most Nigerians are disappointed with how the country has been mismanaged over the years. For now, Nigerians do not believe in themselves and their leaders. More annoying to the people is the way Nigerian leaders seek to turn deceits into a philosophy of governance.” Some of the dignitaries present at the lecture were wife of Senator Abiola Ajimobi, Florence; the Olubadan of Ibadanland, Oba Saliu Adeyunji; the Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Abdulrosheed Akanbi; Senator Teslim Folarin, former Minister of Communication, Adebayo Shittu among others.