A mild drama played out on Monday as some traditional religion adherents disrupted activities at the site of the Federal Housing Estate in Akure, the Ondo State capital. The traditional religion adherents in their full regalia, numbering about 21 men and women, were said to have invaded the project site with fetish items to perform some rituals on the land. It was gathered that the development forced workers of Medaville Building & Construction Company Limited to stop work and run away. A legal practitioner, Mr Femi Emodamori, on behalf of the company, petitioned the state Commissioner of Police and accused the Deji of Akure, Oba Aladetoyinbo Aladelusi, of sponsoring the traditionalists to disturb his clients and described the incident as traditional hooliganism. The lawyer decried the invasion of the federal estate site by the traditionalists and alleged that the monarch took the action in order to take part of the land. The petition read in part, “According to our clients, the Deji of Akure, Oba Aladetoyinbo Aladelusi, had in recent times been sponsoring thugs to disrupt and destroy the project in connivance with some officers of the Akure office of the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing for reasons, which the Kabiyesi did not initially disclose, until recently when the Kabiyesi started demanding both directly and through his proxies, six acres of land at the project site as well as some other monetary and material gifts for some traditional ceremonies. “These demands are unjustifiable, illegal, obnoxious and purely extortionist. For the avoidance of doubt, our clients have Oba Aladetoyinbo Ogunlade Aladelusi on tape making some of these demands and will never make any allegation against the royal father, which is not backed by forensic and undeniable evidence.” However, Oba Aladetoyinbo described the allegations by the developers as untrue and explained that the land belonged to Akure traditionalists. Speaking through his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Michael Adeyeye, the monarch said the rituals performed on the estate site were done in line with the tradition of the community. Oba Aladelusi also said that he would not do anything that would go against the tradition, peaceful co-existence and overall development of Akure land. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com