DESPITE its eventual denial that it did not suspend the operations of Channels Television, but only “warned” it for broadcasting a recent live interview with a leader of the outlawed Indigenous People of Biafra, Emma Powerful, the action by the National Broadcasting Commission amounts to a hurtful attack on free speech and press freedom. The commission however slammed a fine of N5million each on Channels TV and Inspiration FM Lagos for the purported infractions. Indeed, the action is reckless in its entirety and poses grave danger to the independence of the media in carrying out its statutory functions of informing, educating, and enlightening the public. Recall that in April, Twitter said it chose to site its African office in neighbouring Ghana instead of Nigeria, because, “As a champion for democracy, Ghana is a supporter of free speech, online freedom, and the Open Internet…” In response, the government blamed the snub on the Nigerian media for its “misrepresentation.” Among other features, press freedom is a foundational requirement for a thriving democracy and a barometer for measuring a functional society. It is therefore absurd for a government agency to “warn” a media organisation for living up to its true essence and constitutional mandate as a purveyor of knowledge and information. Nothing can be more obnoxious because no law prevents the media from interviewing a so-called terrorist, especially when the same government is silent when admitted killer-herdsmen and bandits and their spokespersons have unfettered access to the media space. No doubt, it is obvious that the government buckled under a hail of public criticism and condemnation because the letter it earlier wrote to the broadcast station expressly indicated that its licence had been suspended and a fine of N5 million imposed on it for allegedly “promoting content liable to incite hatred and sectionalism.” The media reported that the letter, personally signed by the NBC director-general, Armstrong Idachaba, claimed the remarks made by the IPOB spokesperson during the live interview on Channels TV signature programme, Politics Today, were “derogatory, false and misleading” and in violation of Sections 3.11.1(b) and 5.4.3 of the Nigerian Broadcasting Code. Curiously, the letter was silent on what the offensive statements were nor gave any indication of what amounts to “derogatory, false and misleading” statements. Sadly, the NBC magisterially concluded, even without hearing from the broadcast station, that, “For obviously breaching the above provisions of the Law, your station remains liable to sanctions provided in Section 15 of the Code which prescribes among others – suspension of broadcast licence and a fine of five million naira.” The NBC thus became the accuser, prosecutor, and judge in its own case of determining alleged infringement of a code that appears at odds with the constitutional rights; it contradicts the fundamental right to freedom of expression. It is more disturbing that the agency failed to explore the cherished tradition of countering whatever it felt were the “false” claims propagated by the interviewee at the programme. It is worrisome that the NBC appears to be building a benumbing reputation for arbitrariness and actions capable of closing the civic space, a throwback to the repressive military era of the past. In October 2020, in the heat of the #EndSARS protests, it sprang out with a draconian sanction against three TV stations for what it termed “unprofessional coverage” of the mass protests against police brutality across the country. The agency slammed a fine of N2 million each on Arise TV, African Independent Television and Channels TV for alleged “gross violation of the broadcast code,” which includes the use of unverifiable footage sourced from social media. Incidentally, the same regulator looks the other way as the Federal Government-owned television station shuts out opposition candidates during electioneering. In the age of self-publishing social media platforms like YouTube, Instagram Live and #FacebookLive, which have blurred the mainstream media’s monopoly of information dissemination, it is anachronistic for any government, let alone one in a democracy, to attempt to censor any media organisation or close the civic space, for lending itself to balance and fair hearing. No government or its agency has any right to dictate to the media how to go about their professional duties. There are enough in-built mechanisms to do that. Besides, it negates Section 22 of the Constitution of the Federal Government of Nigeria which states, “The press, radio, television and other agencies of the mass media shall at all times be free to… uphold the responsibility and accountability of the government to the people.” This constitutional mandate is not subject to the self-serving interpretation of any government agency or official. If the government is outraged that the spokesperson for an outlawed organisation was featured in the live programme, it is not its duty to dictate to any media organisation who to interview in the chase for news. The media is guided more by the primacy of information aggregation and dissemination, cultivation of exclusive news sources and protection of the news sources. That explains why even when the United States of America was hot on the heels of the al-Qaeda leader, Osama bin Laden, in the war against terror, western media outlets interviewed him. Wikipedia recorded bin Laden himself as saying, “You can read this, if you wish, in my interview with Scott (Macleod) in Time magazine in 1996, or with Peter Arnett on CNN in 1997, or my meeting with John Miller in 1998.” None of those outlets was criminalised or penalised by the US government for talking with a terrorist on their various platforms. Any media organisation will gladly interview the wanted Boko Haram leader, Abubakar Shekau, should the opportunity present itself. The NBC should always be a non-partisan regulatory institution, outside the overbearing control and manipulation of government. To perform its regulatory role efficiently and fairly, it must maintain its independence and should stop behaving like an interested party and operator in the broadcasting industry. In any situation, the media provide the nation with a vital service it can get nowhere else. It is one of the pillars of the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com