Your virginity can give you the world Dear Ma, I saw your comment on  a Facebook page and I was tempted to view your profile! And was greatly amazed at your boldness in preaching virginity till marriage! Although I’m no longer a virgin which I seriously regret till date but with the little I’ve read so far on your timeline, I’m convinced I’ve found the path and person who would lead me to the life of my dreams through your God-given messages. May God continue to empower you ma! Nkali, Abia State Dear Madam Temilolu, Thanks for your good work ma! I know there are many virtuous women out there but teaching, counselling and directing young ladies and guys to live upright is most encouraging and only God can reward you. You are a rare diamond to the world at large. I can’t express the joy I had reading your candid advice of promoting chastity in this depraved times. You are great and you keep on giving your greatness to the world by enriching souls of millions of youths. You are doing a good job ma. God bless you ma. Ofido Dear Ma, How can I get myself out of this pain? My partner broke up with me because I said no to sex outside marriage. I love him so much but he said he couldn’t continue with me any longer. Please what can I do to forget him? I’m dying in pain and crying as I’m texting you. Please help  ma! Grace Moses Dear Momma, Your words, articles and comments on issues of life give me hope. It makes me believe that there are still women with honour and love for holiness out there! I have been mocked times without  number as a result of my resolution to preserve my virginity till marriage  not wanting to have a man that’ll be taking care of me and of course sleeping with me outside marriage! It’s so heart-breaking and runs me into depression. Can you imagine being booed and jeered at for righteousness sake? What a crazy world! However, I thank God for discovering you and know that according to your words- my glorification and everlasting reward is on the way! May God continue to inspire you ma! Obianuju My darling, precious, glorious, dignified, world-famous and heavenly celebrated Nigerian daughters, Are you being taunted by family and friends for always asking for help and rejecting sexual advances from men who can take care of your needs? Sorry…sorry…sorry please! However, did you know God has a record of all the goodies you’ve ignored just because you fear Him? DO YOU THINK THAT’LL PASS JUST LIKE THAT? Whewww….If only you knew how committed God is to those who fear Him, you’d never spare a thought to your friends who would sleep with every Tom, Dick and Harry to have all their dream goodies! Even if from their promiscuity they ended marrying good men and even have children, I repeat, what A’s destiny can endure, could destroy yours! Do you know the type of star you carry? Do you know God’s plan for your life? Refuse to yield to the stupid, bad devil! A lot of your aunties and role models who tell you there’s nothing wrong in using your bodies to get what you want are still looking for men to sleep with to make ends meet even when they’re well over 50 when they should have become spiritual, financial power houses, fortresses etc. But this is what the Spirit of God said I should tell you- “For I will have respect unto you, and make you fruitful, and multiply you, and establish my covenant with you.” Leviticus 26:9 KJV Haaa…a whole God saying that to you!!! Hmmm…believe me, you may not even look or smell good now because you can’t afford to yet you stick to God – little did you know that fear of God in you is building you up into a fiery furnace, a spiritual house and a formidable weapon in the hands of god- a city set on a hill that’ll be saluted till eternity, a light to the world! Yes! Please note today’s date, by the time God who sent me to you is done with you, some of world’s wealthiest and most honourable men would jostle to supply your needs without asking for anything in return! You’ll say I said so! Before then, may you receive help from an unexpected quarter this weekend! I love you my sweets! May God single you out for phenomenal, global honour and flaunt you before the world in Jesus name. I shall respond to Grace Moses’ message next Saturday! To be continued. I invite you to follow me on Facebook–TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @ Okeowo Temilolu. Are you still engaging in pre-marital sex? Each act devalues you! Your wonders are waiting to start. God is waiting for you to become a secondary virgin! You are most welcome on board the chastity campaign train and Girls Club is open for all girls and ladies. Please text your name, age, school or occupation and state of domicile to 07086620576. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com