Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Adedayo Adeoye (retd.), has said people in the South-Eastern part of the country probably complied with proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra’s sit-at-home order for fear of being attacked while some obeyed because they support IPOB. DIG Adeoye stated this in an exclusive interview with The PUNCH on Monday. The PUNCH had earlier reported that commercial activities came to a standstill on Monday in Imo, Anambra, Enugu, Abia, and Ebonyi States as residents deserted public places in compliance with IPOB’s sit-at-home order. IPOB, through its Director of Media and Publicity, Emma Powerful, had said human and vehicular movement would be restricted across the South-East on Monday to mark the 54th anniversary of Biafra. As a result, IPOB said all markets, parks, schools, airports and others would be shut down. The state governments and the police had asked the people to ignore the separatist group’s sit-at-home order. But The PUNCH reports that commercial banks, schools, shops, malls, and other public places were all shut in the South-East on Monday. Also, commercial and private vehicles deserted the roads. Commenting on the development, DIG Adeoye said, “Some people probably stayed at home because they support what is happening there. Another way to look at it is that that the people probably stayed at home because they fear they would be attacked.” The DIG further said the rising insecurity in the South-East will affect the 2023 general elections as people might be afraid to come out and vote. “The situation in the South-East will definitely affect the 2023 election. While some people will be bold to come out during the election, some will be afraid to do so. Those who are bold to come out will vote. The vote needed is the majority. If 10 people vote and six vote for a party, the party has gotten the majority,” he said. He, however, appealed to the Federal Government to resolve the agitations in the country amicably by granting true federalism to sub-nationals. “It is important that all these issues should be resolved through true federalism. We should go back to the 1963 constitution. I am not in support of secession but the zones should be granted true federalism. That does not mean Nigeria will not exist again. Nigeria will still exist,” DIG Adeoye stated.