The Nigerian Press Organisation, comprising the Newspaper Proprietors’ Association of Nigeria, the Nigerian Guild of Editors, and the Nigeria Union Of Journalists; after its meeting on Friday, May 21, 2021, on the state of the nation, makes the following deposition: Nigeria has been embroiled lately in profound socio-economic, political and security challenges that threaten its very existence as reflected in ethnic divisions and separatist agitations in the country, with growing fears that an implosion is imminent. Today,  criminality —kidnapping for ransom, banditry, arson, killings — defines the everyday reality for a good number of our citizens. At the centre of all these are: *High Cost of Governance; *Devolution of Powers/Restructuring; *Petroleum Subsidy Removal; and *Accumulation of Foreign Debt, among others. We, leaders of the media and major stakeholders in the Nigeria Project, given the responsibility imposed on us by Section 22 of the 1999 Constitution, as amended, state  as follows : *That we believe in the oneness of  Nigeria and that its population of about 200 million people, if resources are well managed, have innumerable  advantages — both in economic and soft power,  and that this should not be sacrificed on the altar of ethnic or tribal chauvinism. * That one of the triggers for the current socio-political, economic, and security challenges in the country is high cost of governance, reflected in the outrageous allowances and flamboyant  lifestyles of our political leaders. These leaders, rather erroneously, misconstrue public service for primitive accummulation of wealth, instead of its being a platform for galvanising development and satisfying the collective aspiration of our people for quality life in a safe and secure enviroment. One of the consequences of this ostentatious lifestyle is the new craze among a growing number of youths that the end justifies the means in their quest for easy wealth. *That in a Federal system of government, particularly in a country like Nigeria which is diverse in ethnicity, culture, and religion, an overbearing  centre is counter productive  to the development of the centre itself and the component units. To leave the Federal Government with 68 items under the Exclusive Legislative List, including policing, is a recipe for unending destructive tension in the struggle for advantage among the federating units. It explains why our country is seemingly overwhelmed by non-state actors engaged in criminality and separatist agitations. Given the above, we call on the Federal Government to: Signed Kabiru A. Yusuf (PRESIDENT NEWSPAPER PROPRIETORS’ ASSOCIATION OF NIGERIA & PRESIDENT NIGERIAN PRESS ORGANISATION) Mustapha Isa (PRESIDENT NIGERIAN GUILD OF EDITORS) Chris Isiguzo (PRESIDENT NIGERIA UNION OF JOURNALISTS )