National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party, Uche Secondus, has cautioned the Imo State Governor, Hope Uzodinma against embarking on a witch-hunt of opposition figures in his quest to find ‘scapegoats’ for the insecurity in his state. Secondus spoke at an interactive dinner with journalists in Abuja on Tuesday. This was contained in a statement titled, ‘Insecurity in Imo, Witch-hunt will be counterproductive, Secondus warns… Charges Journalists to defend democracy,’ signed by his Media Adviser, Ike Abonyi, on Wednesday. The National Chairman urged Governor Uzodinma and security operatives in the state to perish any thought of using the recent incident in Owerri to witch-hunt politicians over the rising tension in the state. Secondus said the advice given by the PDP to the Buhari regime over the last few weeks was wholistic and capable of bringing the nation’s security situation under control if implemented. Secondus said, “It’s baffling that over 1000 inmates of correctional centre could be released and police headquarters burnt and the government is not looking deeply at the situation but heightening tension.“ The opposition leader warned the governor against aggravating issues by trying to place the blame on opponents, stressing that such a vindictive move will be counterproductive. He said, “The only way to nip any problem in the bud is to take a wholistic look at it and tackle it from the root rather than witch-hunting opponents.“ The PDP leader equally charged journalists to brace up for the challenges ahead because the democracy they fought for is seriously being undermined by insecurity and apparent incapacity of the ruling party. He explained that from inception, the PDP, in and out of power, has always maintained a robust relationship with the media because of their strategic importance in the deepening of democracy. Secondus charged journalists to continue to be factual in their reports since truth as the bedrock of the press remains sacrosanct and unchanging. Speaking about the party’s plan towards the 2023 elections, Secondus expressed the hope that the National Assembly would fast track the Electoral Act amendment. This, he said, was necessary so as to give hope to voters that the election will not only be free and fair but also transparent.