Nigerians are lamenting the spate of insecurity in the country after the robbery attempt on the residence of the Chief of Staff to the President, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, inside Aso Rock, Abuja, the seat of government, which is supposed to be the most secure place in the country. “Nowhere is safe,” most of them who expressed their feelings on Twitter have said. READ ALSO: Actor, undergraduate arrested for defrauding traders with fake bank alerts Though the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, on Monday confirmed that the operation was not successful, Nigerians are still worried over their safety in view of the increasing insecurity. Wondering about the safety of Nigerians, @EjioforBar tweeted, “Violent attack/robbery taking place right inside Aso Rock -Nigeria seat of power! “Where else is safe, my people? These criminals have taken over Abuja,” he lamented. @FS_Yusuf_ stated, “Whether it’s the Aso Rock, Presidential Villa, or Suleja, nowhere is safe in Nigeria.” Surayyah Ahmad with the handle, @surayyah_ahmad believes that the attempted attack is a cause for concern, “Many residents of Aso Rock believe it is one of the most secure places in the country, considering its proximity to Villa. A robbery in Aso Rock is thus a cause for concern. @Hailfinger1 has called on the president to address the issue as he asked, “Armed robbers in Aso Rock? Is this a joke? Where is President Buhari who promised to lead from the front?” Other Nigerians still can’t get over the fact that a robbery can take place in Aso Rock. @Okiza12 expressed his wonder, “Wonders shall never end. Armed robbers in Aso Rock, the set of power in Nigeria? This is first of its kind in Nigeria.” @Abah_Beulah tweeted, “This government doesn’t know it’s a shame and big disgrace for armed robbers to go into Aso Rock? … Just imagine you hear the White House in the United States was robbed” @blessonate posits that even the US can be attacked, “Even the US White House has been breached. In fact, by harmless people several times in the past! “There is no place on earth whose security can never be breached so far that place is built and manned by people. Aso Rock or Villa security could also be breached! A Twitter user with the handle @papyrossy tweeted “I just hope these robbery allegations aren’t a ruse just to tag a group bad name or make a claim of an assassination attempt in order to deal ruthlessly with some ethnic group. “It just doesn’t make sense, Aso Rock axis is the most secured & monitored area in the whole of Nigeria.” Austin Egejuru, with the username @EgejuruAustin pointed out that, “The account of insecurity across states in Nigeria may have sounded elusive to Buhari and the APC. “Yesterday’s attack in Aso Rock was indeed testimonial, and might unfortunately not be the last until the elites wears the shoes that are pinching the commoners,” he concluded. @MrOdanz_ also called out the presidency saying, “The Presidency should work on securing Nigeria and Nigerians.”