A 36-year-old man, Seyi Oguntade, has appealed to well meaning Nigerians to come to his aide by helping him to achieve a third stage facial plastic surgery in India. He was supposed to go back to Vikram Hospital, India, after he had the second stage of a facial plastic surgery in 2016. Oguntade, who visited Punch Nigeria Limited in Magboro, said he sustained severe burnt and deformity in 2013 when a high tension wire fell on his face while sleeping on the top of his truck. The father of three who had lost both eyes, said he was feeling excruciating pain in the nose, which was meant to be operated upon three months after the second surgery, adding that he needed N12m to go back to India. “It happened on March 27, 2013, when my colleague and I went to drop some goods in a company in Oregun, Ikeja. We worked with a trailer truck company. “When we got there in the night, the security man refused to allow us to enter the compound to offload the goods. So, we decided to sleep over. We slept on top of the truck. “But it started to rain in the midnight; that was how a high tension wire fell on us. My colleague died instantly and I sustained severe burnt all over my head and face and I became deformed,” he recalled. He explained that he was found in a drain by a policeman on patrol and was rushed to the Lagos State University Hospital, Ikeja. “I was later referred to Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi-Araba. The doctors at LUTH tried for me, but they said I needed to go to India for further treatment and operation. We were able to raise the fund for the two different surgeries in 2015 through a story in The PUNCH and an NGO. “After I had the second surgery in 2016, I was asked to come back after three months, but since then, I have not been able to go back. It is five years now and I am in excruciating pain. Nigerians should please help me,” he said. Oguntade said he spoke with the doctor who treated him in India about two weeks ago and he encouraged him to come for the third stage of the surgery. He added, “Due to the increase in the rate of dollar, I will need N12m to enable me to go for the third stage of the surgery in India.” A report signed by a LUTH Consultant Plastic Surgeon, Prof. O.A Ugburo, while explaining the third stage of the surgery, said, “The patient was also planned for the use of episthesis glasses with mounted silicone nose and eyes. This will help to re-integrate him into the society.” Oguntade could be reached on 09039379324, his account number is First Bank, 3166081960. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com