The House of Representatives’ Ad hoc Committee on Assessment and Status of All Recovered Loots Movable and Immovable Assets from 2002 to 2020 by Agencies of the Federal Government of Nigeria for Effective Efficient Management and Utilisation has invited the Accountant-General of the Federation, Ahmed Idris, to appear before it and explain the whereabouts of about €5.5m belonging to the Sovereign Wealth Fund. The Managing Director, Sovereign Wealth Fund, Mr Uche Orji, who appeared before the committee on Wednesday, said the fund was meant for the agency’s operations. He added that it was supposed to come from the Federal Government through the Office of the Accountant General. According to him, the money, which is part of recovered funds, was supposed to have been transferred to the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority, including $311m from the United States and £4.2m from the United Kingdom. The SWF boss noted that while the $311m had been transferred to the SWF and not yet spent, the £4.2m and €5.5m had not been transferred to it. He said, “We are aware that an agreement has been reached between the Ministry of Justice and the counterpart countries. We have been notified about these agreements and that the funds will be transferred to us. But we are yet to receive the fund at the NSIA.” Responding to a question on if the money had been sent to Nigeria, he said he was not aware if the funds had been sent to the country. “All I know is that we were asked to send an account and we have sent the account to the Central Bank (of Nigeria). But we are not involved in those negotiations,” he added. Also on Wednesday, the committee grilled the Chairman of the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission, Prof. Bolaji Owasanloye, who disclosed that the commission had recovered N7.5bn looted fund, out of which the government had accessed over N5bn, leaving a balance of N2.1bn in the account. He also noted that the commission had also helped the government to recover about N188bn between 2019 and 2020 from money released to MDAs which they did not need. The ICPC boss said the commission was currently investigating about 37,000 certificates for a particular ministry, which were suspected to be fake. Owasanloye also said the ICPC had an assets recovery account where recovered loot was usually deposited, adding that the commission had no business with the Consolidated Revenue Fund. Also on Wednesday, the committee queried some transactions made by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. The committee said the EFCC transferred in 2017, which the current Chairman, Abdulrasheed Bawa, denied knowledge of. Ibrahim Magu was acting chairman of the EFCC during the period. Bawa, who appeared before the committee, also told the lawmakers that the EFCC did not spend from recovered stolen funds. “We don’t receive a single kobo from the recovery account,” he stated. Meanwhile, a special prosecutor to the defunct Special Presidential Panel for the Recovery of Public Property, Mr Tosin Ojaomo, has accused Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami (SAN), of frustrating the repatriation of $60bn from the United States. Ojaomo made the allegation on Wednesday while also appearing before the House committee. The accuser, however, failed to provide proof to back his claims against Malami, forcing the committee to ask him to come back with evidence. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com