KADUNA State was on Sunday thrown into total blackout ahead of the five-day warning strike directed by the Nigeria Labour Congress. The NLC leadership had directed that the strike in the state should commence from midnight of Sunday. The total blackout followed warning by the National Union of Electricity Employees, an affiliate of the NLC, directing its workers to join the strike action in Kaduna. But the state government said it won’t bow to the intimidation of the NLC over its planned ‘rightsizing’ of the state workforce. While speaking at a press conference in Kaduna on Saturday, the state Commissioner for Local Government Affairs, Malam Jafaru Sani, said it uncovered a plot by the NLC to recruit hoodlums from other states of the federation to cause mayhem under the pretext of embarking on strike. Sani, therefore, told the unionists that it had notified security agencies about the planned strike of the NLC and the necessary steps would be taken to thwart the violent intent of the organisers. However, a statement by the management of Kaduna Electric on Sunday, said service interruption was as a result of the industrial action embarked upon by the NLC. The statement released by the Head, Corporate Communication of Kaduna Electric, Abdulazeez Abdullahi, was titled, ‘Power failure due to NLC’s industrial action.’ It read in part, “In compliance with the NLC directive, the Transmission Company of Nigeria has knocked off all our 33KV lines in Kaduna State.” Meanwhile, the Chairman of the Kaduna chapter of the NLC, Ayuba Suleiman, said the industrial action would ground all socio-economic activities in both public and private sectors in a bid to force the state government to reverse the sacking of over 7,000 local government workers, teachers and also suspend its plan to sack another 11,000 civil servants. Cruel anti-workers’ policy fuelling insecurity in Kaduna – Falana, ASCAB In a related development, human rights lawyer, Mr. Femi Falana (SAN), and the Alliance on Surviving COVID-19 and Beyond say the Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai, has sacked over 60,000 workers since he assumed office in May 2015. They therefore endorsed the five-day strike across Kaduna State which would begin on Monday (today). ASCAB in a statement on Sunday called on all NLC affiliates and supporters to join the “essential strike”, adding that a “firm action is needed to reverse the massive attacks on jobs and poverty-induced insecurity in Kaduna State.” Falana said rather than seek to address economic decline, El-Rufai had retrenched perhaps 60,000 public sector workers and many have not received their due payments. He added, “Kaduna State is now a dangerous state in Nigeria to live, work or visit in terms of the regularity of bloodshed, kidnappings and killings by bandits and ethno-religious inspired violence. “The level of insecurity in Kaduna State today is a function of unprecedented, cruel anti-workers’ policy of the Kaduna State Government, including repeated mass layoffs. The uncontrolled insecurity is therefore the ’harvest’ or product of the state’s anti-labour policies.” The activist noted that in 2016, over 13,000 workers considered to be ghost workers, were dismissed. The following year another 40,000 public sector workers were retrenched. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com