HealthPlus Pharmacy has partnered Canadian digital health provider, Outpost Health, to deliver a telemedicine platform to the pharmacy chain in Nigeria. The agreement, according to a statement, will allow HealthPlus to utilise the Outpost platform, a proprietary secure HIPAA-compliant digital health and payments solution. The Outpost platform connects providers, patients, payors, pharmacies, laboratories and health facilities globally and serves to provide seamless access and enhanced quality of care to all. The co-founders of Outpost Health, Dr. Didi Emokpare and Dr. Jude Emokpare, in the statement, said, “Having grown up in Nigeria, we are all too familiar with the challenges of health care access and industry fragmentation. To address these challenges, we need partners with the highest ethical standards and a commitment to providing innovative quality health care such as HealthPlus. “Outpost Health is committed to power the next generation of digital health partnerships and bridge gaps in care delivery across the world by leveraging advances in technology to provide powerful solutions to complex problems.” Also, the Chief Transformation Officer of HealthPlus, Chidi Okoro, in the statement, said the firm was delighted to announce the inauguration of its newest innovation. He said, “Through the Outpost app, our customers will be able to consult a specialist doctor via a virtual visit, digitally fulfill a prescription, maintain health records, and utilise a health wallet, along with much more. Through this innovative platform, HealthPlus will continue to provide vigilant pharmacy support and community education. “We are excited to continue in our quest to provide the Nigerian consumers with high-quality, lifesaving, affordable products, and services. We will continue to make a meaningful and lasting impact by contributing our quota to the achievement of universal health care coverage.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com