The personnel of the Imo State Police Command, on Tuesday, killed two bandits during a gun duel that lasted hours in the Ohaji/Egbema area of the state. The cops also recovered a service rifle and ammunition from the slain bandits. The police spokesman in the state, Bala Elkana, who spoke to our correspondent in Owerri, said the bandits were suspected to be part of the gang that attacked the Owerri Correctional Centre and the state police command headquarters in Owerri on April 5. Elkana stated, “The Imo State Police Command neutralised hoodlums, who masterminded the attack on the command headquarters and correctional centre in April 2021. Recovered from them were an AK-47 rifle and a cache of live ammunition. “In response to the mandate given to the Commissioner of Police, Imo State, Abutu Yaro, by the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba, to ensure that the hoodlums, who attacked the command headquarters and the correctional centre, Owerri, were apprehended, the command on May 24, 2021, carried out a well coordinated operation at the Ocha community, Awara, in the Ohaji/Egbema Local Government Area of Imo State. “The hoodlums were engaged in a gun battle. During the gun duel that lasted about two hours, two suspects believed to have masterminded the attack on the police headquarters and correctional centre, Owerri, on April 5, 2021, were fatally injured. “The suspects are Unchenna Elendu of Umukusu Ocha area and Elu Osinachi of Umuobube Awara. “The two suspects were taken to hospital for treatment. The doctor on duty pronounced Uchenna dead on arrival, while Osinachi Elu, who was unconscious, was subsequently pronounced dead. “One AK-47 rifle with breach number 11654 and a cache of live ammunition were recovered. Also recovered were expended ammunition, machetes and charms tied around the waists of the suspects. “The operation will be sustained until all the perpetrators of the dastardly attacks are brought to justice.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com