Experts in the Information and Communications Technology sector have predicted a further decline in the sector in the second quarter of this year on the back of the challenges facing operators. The National Bureau of Statistics disclosed last week that the ICT sector grew by 7.86 per cent in Q1 2021, 1.07 per cent lower than the 8.94 per cent recorded in Q1 2020, and 8.46 per cent lower than the rate recorded in Q4 2020. The sector contributed 14.91 per cent to aggregate real GDP in Q1, higher than the contribution of 14.07 per cent in Q1 2020 but lower than the 15.06 per cent recorded in Q4 2020. The Nigeria National Coordinator, Alliance for Affordable Internet, Mr Olusola Teniola, told our correspondent that subscribers’ changing behaviour was affecting the revenue base of telecommunications companies. He said, “There is a propensity for consumers to now spend their money on acquiring services using WhatsApp. If you look at the figure that both MTN and Airtel posted, there was a slowdown in voice growth, but an uptick in data consumption or data service contribution to their top line. “That reflects the fact that most people are now using over-the-top applications to make calls. The propensity for the consumers, due to COVID-19-induced job losses, will be to seek different ways of using services rendered by the mobile network operators. And since the MNOs are the major contributors to the telecoms industry, it would be reflected likewise in their contribution to GDP.” According to Olusola, MNOs account for 98 per cent of the income of the industry. He said with the impact on revenue, the telcos would continue to contribute less to the GDP. “The impact of the SIM-NIN policy will slow down growth. The NIN requirement will slow down the ability to register SIMs legally because not every Nigerian has NIN,” he said. Another industry expert, who spoke on condition of anonymity on the impact of SIM registration ban on telcos, said, “Do you know how many people have been put out of work by that singular act? If there is a challenge, you don’t hurt businesses. You look for a way around it.” He noted that telcos’ customer acquisition was affected by the SIM registration ban imposed in December, adding, “Any business that cannot acquire customers, they can’t make sales. So, how do you expect GDP to grow?” According to the NBS, the motion pictures, sound recording, and music production subsectors grew by 2.21 per cent in Q1 2021, an improvement from 0.33 per cent in Q4 2020. A movie-maker, Imoh Umoren, expects this upward trajectory to continue. “In Q1, we still were in the aftermath of the pandemic. Q2 numbers will be quite high; we expect more movies in the coming quarter. So, the TV and film industry is slowly getting back on,” he said. The publishing subsector contracted by 1.45 per cent in Q1 2021, compared to a contraction of 2.59 per cent in Q4 2020 and a growth of 0.10 per cent in Q1 2020. A book publisher, Servio Gbadamosi, said that although publishing was slowly rebounding, it had become more expensive to publish a book than it was in 2020. “The fact is that more books are now being produced than in 2020, but these books are produced at a far higher rate. This is because the costs of all the production inputs have at least doubled or tripled between last year and now,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com