Great Nigeria Insurance Plc has said it grew its annuity portfolio by 8,876.05 per cent to over N4.7bn in the first quarter of 2021 from N52.5m in the same period of 2020. It disclosed this on Monday in a statement titled ‘Great Nigeria Insurance Plc significantly grows its annuity portfolio’. The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Mrs Cecilia Osipitan, explained that life annuity is a stream of periodic payments that commenced at a specified date, which is either the normal retirement age or at 50, in the case of early retirement. This payment, she said, could either be monthly or quarterly, depending on the retiree’s preference. According to her, the benefits include the continuous flow of regular income for the retiree, insulation from the risks associated with the investment of lump sum benefits, structured management of resources and the transference of the risk of diminution in assets and possible failure of investments of retirees to insurance companies, which are better equipped to manage such risks. Osipitan said, “Insurance remains the most reliable bedrock of our existence and cultivating the culture of insurance can never be over-emphasised. “There is a need to call for a paradigm shift through effective sensitisation of the insuring public as it is very important to imbibe the culture of getting appropriate insurance cover to protect our assets and lives in case of any eventuality.” The Corporate Communications and Brand Manager, Oyinkansola Sobande, said retirement should be the time to live a stress-free life after years of active engagement and not a time of financial difficulties. According to her, annuity for life policy is a retirement instrument option for retiring employee. She said, “It is a contract that provides, in return for a lump sum, a monthly or quarterly payment starting immediately after retirement and continuing for the rest of the retiree’s life. “The contract is often purchased by retiring persons who want an income that is guaranteed to last for the rest of their lives, no matter how long that might be.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com