THE Secretary of the Northern Elders Forum, Dr. Hakeem Baba- Ahmed, has asked the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.)-led regime, to step up and perform the factions for which he was elected. Baba-Ahmed said this in an interview, with The PUNCH, in Abuja, on Wednesday. He spoke against the backdrop of an alarm raised by the Presidency alleging that it had uncovered a plot by unnamed persons, to engineer an unconstitutional take over of the Buhari regime. In a statement signed by the Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, to the President, Femi Adesina, on Tuesday, the Presidency said, “The Department of State Services, on Sunday, alerted on sinister moves by misguided elements to wreak havoc on the government, sovereignty and corporate existence of the country. “Championed by some disgruntled religious and past political leaders, the intention is to eventually throw the country into a tailspin, which would compel a forceful and undemocratic change of leadership. “Further unimpeachable evidence shows that these disruptive elements are now recruiting the leadership of some ethnic groups and politicians round the country, with the intention of convening some sort of conference, where a vote of no confidence would be passed on the President, thus throwing the land into further turmoil.” In response to the Presidential statement, Baba-Ahmed said, “This is a very serious statement to make. We are talking of treason here. The Presidency has a duty to arrest and expose who it suspects are involved in this, instead of releasing statements that merely compound our very high levels of concern. “This is not just about President Buhari. It is about our rights to choose who leads us. It is, to say the least, irresponsible to release these kinds of statements instead of taking steps to bring subversives and treason to book.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com