SEVEN Boko Haram insurgents were killed on Tuesday as the Nigerian military successfully repelled an attack on Maiduguri metropolis while Muslim faithful broke their Ramadan fast. Three soldiers paid the supreme price as the insurgents set ablaze houses in Jiddari Polo area within Maiduguri. The attack came with heavy gunshots from the cashew plantation axis of Sambisa forest in the state capital around 6pm shortly before breaking the Ramadan fast. Abdulrazak Abdullahi, a resident of Jiddari Polo disclosed to the The PUNCH that the insurgents got to the town on motorcycles and gun trucks which aimed at the army base located in the area, resulting in the casualty. “They came in from that cashew plantation area. Our people heard gunshots from that axis and began to run for safety only for them to kill three soldiers. But the army also killed seven of the Boko Haram attackers. “The terrorists drove in motorcycles and gun trucks but the Nigerian Army were able to seize one gun truck and four motorcycles as the insurgents flee from the ultra power of the Nigerian troops,” Abdulrazak disclosed. Another source around Jiddari Polo, Ali Musba’u, said the insurgents set ablaze several houses before the Nigerian military repelled the attack. The attack by the insurgents on the town lasted for about an hour, even as children and women were still believed to be missing. Many people fleeing from the area into the main town lamented that their homes were torched. A source told our correspondent that many residential houses were completely burnt down at Jiddari Polo. A lot of photos were shared on social media among people in the town with some people in camouflage believe to be the insurgents felled by bullets. Attempts to get the spokesman for Operation Hai Kai (the military operation in the area), Col. Ado Isa to speak on the attack was unsuccessful as several calls to him were not answered. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com