The Nigerian Maritime Administration & Safety Agency has declared that it is ready to set up a media school for maritime reporters. The agency said that it would collaborate with the Nigerian army to bring this to reality. The director of NIMASA made this known during a meeting held with some representatives of the Nigerian Army. He said, “We have a responsibility to manage security information in ways that would engender confidence in the polity – and not endanger the country.” Also, in a series of statements on its official Twitter page, it was learnt that, the focus of the media school would be training and retraining of journalists and other public communication practitioners in the country’s security sector. The statement said, “NIMASA and the HQ Nigerian Army have announced a plan to cooperate on the training and retraining of journalists and other public communication practitioners in the country’s security sector. “This was the highpoint of a meeting in Lagos between the management of NIMASA led by the DG, Jamoh Bashir, and a team from the Nigerian Army School of Public Relations and Information led by the Acting Commandant, Col. Aliyu Yusuf, at the agency’s headquarters. “The Nigerian Army delegation said the courtesy call was to explore areas for further collaboration with NIMASA. “Jamoh Bashir stressed the cordial relationship between NIMASA and the Armed Forces, especially the HQ Nigerian Army which plays a leading role in the Integrated National Security and Waterways Protection Infrastructure (the Deep Blue Project), domiciled at the agency.” NIMASA also said that the agency’s public relations unit would interface with NASPRI to come up with a robust curriculum and information sharing method that would serve NIMASA and the army in the implementation of their respective mandates. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com