Men of the Ogun State Police Command have arrested a 28-year-old man, Opeyemi  Ganiyu, for allegedly killing his mother-in-law, Abosede Oyewole. The suspect was arrested on Monday following a report made at the Atan-Ota Divisional Police Headquarters by one Odunayo Matthew. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this in a statement on Wednesday. Oyeyemi said the complainant reported that the suspect, who is married to the daughter of the deceased, was fond of beating his wife on the slightest provocation. The PPRO stated, “On the day of the incident, the suspect as usual beat up his wife and inflicted injuries on her, and that was the reason why the deceased went to meet him to warn him to desist from beating her daughter. “On sighting the deceased in his house, the suspect descended heavily on her, beat her mercilessly before stabbing her with a knife on her ribs. “The deceased was rushed to a hospital for treatment, but gave up the ghost in the process. “Having heard that the victim had died, the suspect took to flight. The DPO, Atan-Ota Division, CSP Abolade Oladigbolu, detailed his detectives to go after him and bring him to justice. “The detectives embarked on intelligence-based investigation, which led them to his hideout in Ikorodu Lagos State, where he was eventually apprehended. “Preliminary investigation revealed that the suspect is a member of a notorious cult group in the area. “He was also one of those, who led hoodlums to burn down the Atan-Ota Police Division during the #EndSARS protest, and killed the Divisional Crime Officer on October 21, 2020.” The PPRO added that the Commissioner of Police, Edward Ajogun, had ordered the immediate transfer of the suspect to the Homicide Section of the state Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for discreet investigation. concluded.”      ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com