Nigeria Professional Football League sides Heartland FC and Katsina United are both laying claim to the ownership of Samuel Nnoshiri, who left the Owerri-based side during the NPFL mid-season break. Heartland had raised the alarm that Nnoshiri, who now plays for Katsina United, was still the club’s property. The club had in a statement signed by its media officer, Solomon Onu, on Monday, alleged that Katsina illegally acquired the services of Nnoshiri. Nnoshiri made his debut for Katsina on Sunday, scoring in their 5-1 drubbing of Wikki Tourists. Speaking with our correspondent on Tuesday, the media officer of Katsina United, Nuhu Shaiskawa, said they followed all legal process in the acquisition of Nnoshiri. “Samuel Nnoshiri already terminated his contract with Heartland and we went to Abuja to register him and get his licence. “We settled everything with the LMC and registered him duly, that was why he could play against Wikki on Sunday,” Shaiskawa told The PUNCH. Our correspondent saw the notice of termination letter Nnoshiri sent to Heartland, which was dated April 4, 2021. Nnoshiri premised his termination notice on the inability of the club to pay him his five months salaries. “I write to inform you of my intention to terminate my existing contract with Heartland Football Club of Owerri, due to a breakdown in contractual relations during which the club has failed to pay my outstanding five months salary. “I have therefore opted to exercise my right of termination as contained in Article 11 of my standard player’s contract (NPFL FORM 7), and provided for in the FIFA STATUTE ON THE TRANSFER AND STATUS OF PLAYERS. “Please note that despite this termination, my right to the outstanding salary arrears still subsists and I look forward to a full and complete payment,” Nnoshiri wrote in the letter. Our correspondent also got a copy of Nnoshiri’s Domestic Transfer Certificate with reference number 256271 from Heartland to Katsina United dated April 8, 2021. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com