Stakeholders in the health sector have outlines strategies to eliminate malaria in the country. The experts, at the St Racheal’s Pharma 2021 World Malaria Day Colloquium said the fight against malaria required a collective effort. The chairman and chief executive officer of the firm, Pharm. Akinjide Adeosun, said in order to reach zero malaria target in Nigeria, there must be increased funding for anti-malaria initiatives. In his remark titled, ‘Hope for a Zero Malaria Future in Nigeria’, Adeosun urged the federal and state governments to set aside one per cent of their 2022/2032 budgets to anti-malaria initiatives. He also called for increased private sector participation in the anti-malaria programmes and initiatives. The wife of the Imo State Deputy Governor, Dr Bola Njoku, lamented the governments’ lack of capacity and political will for the sustainability of approaches put in place to tackle the burden of malaria in the country. She said, “Unfortunately, Nigeria depends highly on development partners for her sustainable programmes on malaria prevention and treatment, and seeing it as the only way the country can move forward. “Most of the drugs, consumables and commodities used in the fight against malaria in Nigeria are imported as none is produced locally.” She called for the implementation of community-based health insurance to cater for the people at the grassroots. The Oyo State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Bashir Bello, said the state had applied several workable strategies to ensure a total elimination in the state, which had shown positive results. He said the state flagged off programme that takes care of children directly from the home, with provision been made to give them the necessary care as well as the pregnant women getting all forms of necessary antenatal care including the intermittent treatment of malaria. The director of public health, Ministry of Health, Ogun State, Dr. Festus Soyinka, said the state, in its 2021 appropriation bill targeted to improve access and utilisation of vector control intervention to at least 80 per cent of the state’s population by the end of the year. Also, the director of disease control, Ministry of Health, Lagos State, Dr. Rotimi Agbolagorite, said malaria was endemic in the state and posed a major challenge to the state as it impedes human development. “The cosmopolitan nature of Lagos, coupled with the people’s behaviour and the abundant distribution of people in the coastal areas, encourage the availability of stagnant water for the breeding of Anopheles mosquitoes,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com