For the first time in months, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), stepped out together with his wife, Mrs Aisha Buhari, on Thursday, to celebrate this year’s Eid-el Fitr and completion of one-month Ramadan fast. In a series of photos shared via Buhari’s social media handles, the President and the First Lady were seen flanked by their children and their spouses. In separate photos, the President was also seen with lads young enough to be his grandchildren. Buhari, in a string of tweets, congratulated all Muslims on the occasion of this year’s Eid festival and prayed that it will bring with it peace, safety, security, brotherhood and love amongst others. The retired major general also stressed on “unity and solidarity among all citizens, Muslims and Christians”, adding that these virtues are imperative “especially at a time when our country is faced with multiple challenges which are surmountable only when we come together as one”. Significantly, The PUNCH observed that today marked the first time the President and the First Lady were seen together in public or together in photos. The PUNCH had earlier reported that Mrs Buhari left the Presidential Villa, Abuja, for Dubai in September 2020 and stayed there for about six months before she quietly returned to the country in March 2021. The First Lady’s aides claimed she had gone to Dubai for medical treatment but Mrs Buhari, whom many have described as a fearless and outspoken critic of her husband’s government, especially on the matter of security, has been at loggerheads with the President’s aides and close relatives in recent time. In 2019, she accused the President’s nephew, Mamman Daura, of hijacking the Presidency, adding that the President’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, had even issued statements on behalf of the President without his knowledge but based on instructions from Daura. In 2020, passions reached a climax when security aides to a relative and Personal Assistant to the President, Tunde Sabiu, fired shots inside the Presidential Villa during an altercation with Aisha’s aides. The PUNCH had also reported that the President sent out birthday wishes to at least over six notable Nigerians in February 2021 but did not wish his wife, who attained the milestone age of 50, a happy birthday on February 17, 2021. The President was also not present at the public presentation of the biography of Mrs Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on April 8, 2021. The First Lady had launched a book, titled, ‘Aisha Buhari: Being Different’, which was written by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Administration and Women Affairs, Dr Hajo Sani. The President, who was in London for medical check-up at the time, did not speak virtually during the launch and his aides didn’t issue any statement recognising the feat by Mrs Buhari, leaving many to wonder if the relationship between the first couple has gone frosty.