A man, Omotayo Olaiya, has been arrested for allegedly threatening to use a gun to kill a woman, Mayo Olatunji, while she was worshipping in a mosque in the Ebute-Meta area of Lagos State. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi, said in a statement on Wednesday that after receiving a complaint from Olatunji, policemen tracked down Olaiya, adding that a pistol was recovered from him. He said, “Police operatives attached to the Denton Division of the Lagos State Police Command, on May 3, 2021, around 11am, received a complaint from Mrs Shakirat Mayo Olatunji that one Omotayo Olaiya threatened to kill her with a gun inside the Ansarudeen Mosque, located at No. 72-74 Bola Street, Ebute-Meta, Lagos. “On the strength of the complaint, a surveillance team was detailed to track down the suspect and he was eventually arrested. A brownie pistol and one Motorola walkie-talkie were recovered from him. “Upon interrogation, the suspect confessed that he bought the pistol from one Taiwo residing in the Ikorodu area of Lagos State in November 2020, at the rate of N80,000. “The state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, has ordered that the case be transferred to the command’s Special Squad, Ikeja, for proper investigation and arrest of other suspects in connection with the case of unlawful possession of firearm and threat to the life of the complainant.” In another development, police personnel attached to the Festac Division, on Tuesday, rescued an abandoned baby girl of about six months at 24B, Plot 3006, Rafiu Babatunde Tinubu Street, Amuwo Odofin. Adejobi said, “The police, in conjunction with social workers from the Amuwo Odofin Local Government Area of Lagos State, have taken care of the rescued baby and she has been taken to the Juvenile and Women Centre in Alakara for further action. “The CP, Hakeem Odumosu, has condemned the cruel and inhuman act of abandoning babies on roads or in bush.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com