Yoruba actor, Olanrewaju Omiyinka, popularly known as Baba Ijesha, who has been in police detention for alleged sexual assault, has been granted bail on health grounds. His lawyer, Adesina Ogunlana, confirmed the development to PUNCH Metro on Monday. “He was granted bail about one hour ago. We are working to perfect the bail conditions. He was granted bail on health grounds. He has not been released. He will be released after his bail conditions have been perfected,” he said. Among the bail conditions as listed by his lawyer are two reliable sureties, one of who must be a level-10 civil servant, a direct blood relation to the accused and N500,000 bail bond. A police source confirmed to PUNCH Metro that Omiyinka was still in custody, adding that the bail conditions would still undergo certain processes. The source said, “Baba Ijesha is still in the cell. He has not been released. What happened was that some magistrates went to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, Panti, Yaba, and they saw him there as he was limping. “One of the magistrates asked what was wrong with him and he said it was Princess boys, who beat him when they saw him and he had been feeling severe pain. So, the magistrates said since he had a health condition, they would recommend that he should be released on bail. “Aside from the report of the DPP, this is just a recommendation and they are still going to pass it through certain processes. So, Baba Ijesha is still with the police.” Ogunlana had on Friday submitted a letter to the Commissioner of Police seeking his client’s release on bail on the grounds that he had been traumatised and was walking with difficulties in detention. Omiyinka has been facing public backlash since he was alleged to have sexually assaulted a 14-year-old-girl in the home of comedienne, Adekola Adekanya, popularly called Princess. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com