The Federal Government has said that there is no request for the evacuation of the Nigerians who are stranded in St. Vincent and the Grenadines due to the volcanic eruption in the country. It, however, acknowledged that the Nigerian Community is in need of relief materials as it is affected by the impact of the natural disaster in the country. This was disclosed in a statement signed by the Spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ferdinand Nwonye, titled, ‘ Situation Of Nigerian Nationals In St, Vincent And The Grenadines.’ The statement read, “Consequent to recent media reports alleging that Nigerian Nationals are stranded in St. Vincent and the Grenadines which is attributed to the volcanic eruption in the Caribbean Island, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs wishes to make the following clarifications: “First and foremost, the Island nation of St. Vincent and the Grenadines is under the coverage of the Nigerian High Commission in Trinidad and Tobago. Secondly, the Nigerian Mission in Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago is in contact with the leadership of the Nigerian Community Association in St. Vincent and the Grenadines, which is headed by Dr. Folu Ayanleke. “The Nigerian Community no doubt is affected by the impact of the unfortunate natural disaster and need relief materials, but there is no request for evacuation back home. “The Ministry also wishes to inform the general public that the appointment of Dr. Levi Wilson Odoe, who is parading himself as Honourable Consul of St. Vincent and the Grenadines, was terminated on the 16th of July, 2019. Dr. Odoe should therefore desist from parading himself as such because he is not in any position to solicit support from the Government as well as private individuals on behalf of Nigerian Students in St. Vincent and the Grenadines. “The Nigerian High Commission in Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago is abreast with the challenges faced by the students and is working closely with the leadership of the Nigerian Community Association to provide necessary help to the affected students.”