Solad Power Group and Viathan Engineering Limited say they have agreed to a strategic alliance to deliver integrated energy solutions for customers across the country. Solad, a distributed energy solutions provider, and Viathan, an integrated energy services company, said the alliance would combine Solad’s solar engineering capabilities with Viathan’s generation infrastructure to improve power supply to Nigerian businesses. The companies had previously collaborated on Solad’s flagship project at Sura market in Lagos which had been delivering reliable and affordable power to over 1000 small businesses from a gas generation plant built by Viathan on Lagos Island. Solad’s Chief Executive Officer, Denis O’Brien, said, “The success of the partnership and the synergies between Viathan and Solad have been very clearly demonstrated at the Sura project. “This alliance will allow us to build on those synergies by developing integrated propositions for additional sites across the region, where a hybrid combination of gas and solar can overcome intractable energy supply problems for businesses of all sizes.” “By combining our balance sheets, the alliance will also create new financing opportunities at scale, and allow us to lower the cost of project delivery.” Habeeb Alebiosu, who commented on behalf of Viathan, stated, “Following the success of the Sura project, Viathan recognises Solad’s ability to develop the last mile and customer services’ infrastructure for hybrid power solutions. “This means that we can utilise our gas generation capacity to access a much wider range of customers. “We are very pleased to be extending our partnership, bringing together two key pillars of the government’s energy strategy in gas monetisation and renewables.” Solad said it would be installing 12 mini-grid solutions in markets across the South-West, Nigeria over the next two years. This would add more than 20,000 small businesses to its network, Solad stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com