CDC Group, the UK’s development finance institution and impact investor, has announced a $100m debt commitment to ETG, an agricultural conglomerate connecting smallholder farmers to global markets through its operations in 48 countries worldwide. The institution said the debt commitment would support the growth of ETG’s food and agriculture business, and help ETG strengthen food value chains by expanding its logistic networks, boosting agriculture yields and the production of staple foods such as grains, rice and cocoa. ETG has long-standing relationships with over 550,000 smallholder farmers across Africa, according to a statement on Tuesday. It said as part of the funding facility, CDC would support ETG’s ongoing efforts towards implementation and alignment with international Environmental and Social standards with enhanced focus on supply chain risk management, safeguarding work and procedures. The Chief Treasury Officer, ETG, Anish Jain, said, “We are extremely grateful for the support of CDC Group. ETG is excited to expand its existing presence in various markets and further offer support to communities across our extended footprint. “ETG puts special focus on the development of smallholder farmers, linking them with international markets by utilising its proprietary end-to-end supply chain.” Tony Morgan, managing director and head of private equity and corporate debt at CDC Group, said, “Agriculture and rural development are vital engines that are accelerating Africa’s  economic transformation and meeting global food and health needs. “As these sectors continue to evolve and grow exponentially, this shift will be bolstered by a diversified, technologically-enabled, and commercially-oriented agro-industry – one that connects Africa’s markets regionally and internationally.” According to him, the food and agriculture sector is a fundamental part of the development agenda. He said, “Increasing the availability and accessibility of agricultural goods brings more nutritious food to the market, with the longer-term goal of improved food security and nutritional outcomes in countries where we invest. “We are delighted to deepen our partnership with ETG and look forward to the tremendous impact and economic development that CDC’s patient capital will support.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com