THERE was uproar in Ayete, headquarters of the Ibarapa North Local Government Area of Oyo State, on Thursday, following the alleged interception of some Fulani herdsmen with guns. It was gathered that five men, including the driver of a vehicle, were travelling through Ayete when the youth stopped them and carried out a search of the vehicle. A sack loaded with guns and pieces of ammunition was reportedly found hidden in the vehicle. The discovery was said to have attracted a large number of people, who thronged the scene. The angry youths were said to have pounced on the five occupants of the vehicle and beat to a pulp. But some said the herdsmen escaped from the mob and fled into the bush. The driver was said to have been badly injured by the mob. Three persons have been allegedly shot dead by suspected herdsmen in Ibarapa over the past seven days. The Convener of the Igangan Development Advocates, Mr Oladiran Oladokun, confirmed the recovery of the weapons to our correspondent. “A vehicle carrying Fulani men with weapons was set ablaze by angry youths of Ayete,” he said. The Secretary of the Farmers’ Union in Ibarapaland, Mr Taiwo Adeagbo, said he rescued the driver and a policeman filming the mob from being lynched. Adeagbo stated, “I went to Ayete to attend a peace meeting, which the police called. As I entered Ayete, I saw smoke and I went towards the direction and discovered that some youths were beating a man. “I enquired from the youth there and they told me that some Fulani men were caught with weapons. I asked the driver how many Fulani men he conveyed and he said one, but the youth insisted that they were four. “They set the vehicle ablaze. But I pleaded with them not to kill him. They said the Fulani men escaped from the vehicle and ran away. “So, I rescued the driver and the policeman, whom they attacked for filming them. I told them to kill me instead of the policeman and I took him to the police station in the town.” But the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Mr Adewale Osifeso, said, “I am in Ayete right now and I can’t see anything like that.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com