The National Agricultural Seeds Council has commenced the implementation of Plant Variety Protection Act 2021, with the aim of protecting intellectual properties, protection for plants and to ensure food productivity. On May 21, 2021, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), signed the PVP Bill into law after it was passed by the House of Representatives on December 17, 2020 and the Senate on March 3, 2021 following several months of deliberation. Recently, the Nigerian Economic Summit Group said the implementation of the Plant Variety Protection Act would help Nigeria to generate over $2bn from seeds export. Speaking at a press briefing in Abuja on Monday, the Director-General, NASC, Philip Ojo, said the council was set to implement the Act. He said that its implementation would not only protect seeds but would ensure higher yields for farmers. “The law will ensure that we begin to see Nigerian farmers produce superior yielding, stress tolerant, disease resistant, climate smart and input efficient varieties, which will be introduced by innovative breeders from both the public and private sectors,” he said. He added, “We are talking of a law that will protect plant breeders. We want a situation in this country where plant breeders who have not been getting renumeration for their investment should start getting it.” Ojo said the law would ensure efficient land use and reduce food cost as a result of fact that it would lead to increased productivity from cultivated hectares across the country. “The economic benefits of this include adequate productivity, increase in revenue generation and lots of employment opportunities. When there are lots of seeds across the country, the price of foodstuff will reduce,” the NASC boss stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com