The Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Muhammad Bello, has advised Muslims in the country to stand firm against divisive and unpatriotic elements who do not mean well for Nigeria. He also urged them to continue to show love to others, irrespective of their ethnic and religious differences. Bello, who gave the advice in his Eid-el- Fitr message to residents on Thursday, urged Muslims to continue to practise the lessons learnt during Ramadan in order to strengthen the bond of brotherhood and unity. He reminded them that the FCT was built on a foundation of national unity, adding that with a single purpose, the potentials of the nation could be reached. The minister said, “I urge you to continue to practise the lessons learnt during Ramadan in order to strengthen the bond of brotherhood and unity. “Let us be reminded that the Federal Capital Territory was built on a foundation of national unity with the strong conviction of our founding fathers. That it is only when we stay together and work together. “We should stand firm and resolute against divisive and unpatriotic elements in our society who do not wish us well as a nation and as a people by continuing to care for each other irrespective of ethnic or religious differences.” Restating his commitment towards a secured FCT, the minister said his administration would continue to collaborate with security agencies to put measures in place to safeguard the lives and properties of all residents. He also urged residents to remain vigilant and report to the security agencies all suspicious movements and characters in their communities. Urging Muslims to celebrate with caution due to the raging coronavirus, the minister added, “As we celebrate the Eid festivities, we should please do so from the safety and comfort of our homes. “Please note that despite the seemingly low cases of positives and fatalities recorded in recent weeks, COVID-19 is still with us and remains a deadly disease. “The possibility of a third wave is very real and we should therefore continue to observe the non-pharmaceutical intervention protocols of facial coverings, physical distancing and handwashing.”