THE Nigerian Army has dismissed no fewer than 3,040 soldiers from service for various acts of misconduct, and indiscipline, including desertion, possession of hard drugs, rape and murder. Some of the soldiers were discharged for cowardice, forgery, drunkenness, poor performance, disobedience to orders, absence from duty/parade and failure to perform military duty. Similarly, scores were also axed for Bank Verification Number issues, vetting problems, insubordination, civil offence, extortion, defilement and conduct prejudicial to service. Others were dismissed for conspiracy, ‘misfire,’ stealing, impersonation, attempted rape, assault, unlawful release of prisoners and cheating. The names of the personnel were contained in a 90-page document titled, ‘List of soldiers dismissed from the Nigerian Army,’ obtained by our correspondent in Abuja on Friday. The dismissal period was, however, not mentioned in the document. Over 1,000 soldiers were discharged for AWOL (Away Without Leave), while hundreds others were sacked for desertion. More than 20 others were equally dismissed for having foreign spouses, pregnancy without marriage, attempting to have sex with a colleague’s wife, hiding from the enemy, attending civilian burials in military uniforms, negligence, loss of ammunition, theft of rifles, sleeping on sentry duty, travelling without a pass, among other things. While Sgt. Abdullahi Usman was dismissed for going away without leave,  Samson Tart was sacked for attempted rape, L/Corporals Thlama Jaduwa and Ujah Stephen were relieved for illegal duty and indiscipline respectively. L/Cpl Nande Samson and Cpl Julius Abiodun were sacked for five-day absence and disobedience to order, respectively, while  Akaa Abani and Daniel Timothy, both privates,  were discharged for possession of Indian hemp. Also on the list were L/Cpl Kareem Umoru dismissed for accidental discharge, L/Cpl Ofodile Chuka (misconduct);  Abdullahi Danladi (extortion); L/Cpl Doris Ozah (disobedience to standing order); Cpl Taofeek Alagbala (AWOL); Pte Alexander Goji (forgery) Danladi Yusuf (unlawful release of prisoner). The military authorities also discharged Ptes Kingsley Obumneke and James Joseph for misfiring,  Ishiali Franklin and Cpl Abdullahi Mohammed were sacked for failure to perform military duty, L/Cpl Romade Olumide (desertion),  Friday Olorunaye (double pay in a month); Pte Mohammed Abubakar (aiding and abetting) Pte Danlamin Garba was discharged for disgraceful conduct while Mohammed Ibrahim and Aliyu Dangaladima were dismissed for stealing. Pte Ankpande Simeon was disengaged for attempted murder while Samson Hagai, Ibrahim Magaji, Echeji Abraham, Bashiru Bello, Kole Lawal, James Jeremiah, Ameh Ameh, Aliyu Abdullahi, Ilya James and Ado Ali were dismissed for drunkenness. The authorities also sacked Ipinyomi Emmanuel, a private, and James Itodo, for siphoning fuel from an Armoured Personnel Carrier. Bassey Asinya was discharged for murder, Adeosun Kazeem sacked for manslaughter  while Alisabatu Tanko was dismissed for getting pregnant out of wedlock. Meanwhile,  The Nigeria Army has restated its commitment to tackling numerous security challenges in various parts of the country. Maj Gen Danjumma Ali-Keffi, General Officer Commanding 1 Division Nigeria Army Kaduna, made the remarks during the passing out of 80 regular recruit intakes at the Depot Nigerian Army Zaria on Saturday. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the military has been battling various security challenges occasioned by the activities of Boko Haram terrorists, armed bandits, kidnappers, and other criminal elements. Ali-Keffi, who was the Reviewing Officer and Special Guest of Honour at the event, said the army “will not rest on our oars until this country is safe for all of us.’’ He noted that since its establishment in 1924, Depot Nigerian Army has the mandate of transforming able-bodied civilians into soldiers to meet the manpower requirement of the Nigerian Army. “This function is of utmost importance, considering the numerous challenges bedevilling our beloved country. “It is noteworthy that as you pass out today, the strength of the Nigerian Army has been enhanced by 6,400 able-bodied men and women,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com