The Christian Association of Nigeria has declared a three-day national mourning and prayers over continuous killings and other challenges facing the country. During the period – May 28 to May 30 –  all local churches are expected to gather in the evening of each day for the prayers. CAN’s National General Secretary, Daramola Joseph, convey the message to Church leaders in a letter dated May 11, 2021 and titled, ‘National days of soberness/mourning and fervent prayers for God’s mercy by Christians in Nigeria from Friday, May 28  to Sunday, May 30, 2021.” The letter was addressed to CAN’s national leaders, bloc leaders, zonal chairman, state chairmen and their secretaries. It reads partly , “Consequently, all local churches are expected to gather in the evening of each day set aside for the prayers to pray to God in the attitude of mourning or soberness for the bloodshed of many innocent Nigerians most especially Christians. “In the light of these, the following are the suggested prayer points to be followed during the said prayer meetings: “That we are sad and pained for the blood of many innocent Nigerians that evil people in our midst had shed or for those kidnapped and abused in various ways. That God should forgive our sins wherever we as a church or Nigerians, especially our leaders had sinned against God. “Pray that the church would prevail over all threats to her existence in Nigeria; that the gate of hell will never prevail against the church in the name of Jesus.” It added, “That every step the terrorists, bandits, kidnappers, gunmen and other wicked people in our midst take henceforth would fail. That unseen hands and army of the Lord would fight them and Nigeria would be at peace. “Pray to break the yoke of generational curse that might have been placed on Nigeria and her leadership during the slave trade by the victims.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com