A professor of architecture at the University of Lagos, Prof. Joseph Igwe, has said that the patronage of Nigerian architects is tied to how they make themselves relevant. Igwe said this at a colloquium organised in his honour by the Architecture & Urbanism Research Hub in conjunction with the Association of Nigerian Chartered Architects. The hybrid colloquium and book presentation which was held on Thursday at the Julius Berger Hall of the university was themed ‘Architectural confluence: yesterday, today and tomorrow’. The Festschrift was held for the retiring professor in recognition of forty years of meritorious service to the Department of Architecture, University of Lagos. Gracing the occasion was the Chairman, Senator Sam Egwu, a former governor of Ebonyi State currently representing Ebonyi North Senatorial District; Justus Okah-Avae, chairman of the ANCA board of trustees, professors of architecture, practitioners from the built industry, the media, and students from the Department of Architecture, UNILAG. Speaking at the event, Igwe said, “Architects should make themselves relevant. When they make themselves relevant, people will patronise them. “If they don’t see relevance in what you’re doing, why will they want to pay you fees? So, it is architects as a collective that should do something to become relevant. That’s how I see it.” He also spoke about his teaching career, saying that he would be retiring a fulfilled man. He said, “I want to say that I will be retiring in one week and that I had a very good experience in my years as a lecturer in this university. The University of Lagos gave me the opportunity for self-improvement in all aspects of life. “I have lectured for 40 years, I enjoyed teaching. I have no regrets at all. I came into academics from practice and I must say that so far, it has been fulfilling. “I feel humbled by what my colleagues in the profession have done today – going all the way to publish a book in my honour – which is what they are presenting today. I did not contribute a chapter,” he said. Igwe, who noted the lack of commission and patronage as a threat to the architectural profession, lamented that only a handful of Nigerians could afford the services of a professional architect. Egwu lauded the professor for his contributions to the development of education and emphasised the relevance of history in the school curriculum, saying that it spoke volumes of the origin, root and culture of a people. “We cannot undermine the importance of our history as a people, because it captures every facet of life. Like architecture, it provides a platform for one to look back, see where you are coming from, where you are, and where you want to be in the future,” he said. Prof. Tunji Adejumo, one of the editors of the book, said that the book, structured in six sections, was made up of 16 chapters. Adejumo noted that the book was written in honour of Igwe in recognition of his devotion to cultural issues in design and promotion of scholarship in the history, theory and criticism of architecture over the years. According to the authors, the book provides insights on aspects of the discursive field of architecture especially related to culture, the history, theory and criticism in Nigeria. The book aimed to raise the issues and debates which frame the quest for the development of a local architecture and urban design. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com