Two female jobseekers were reportedly rescued after they were allegedly kidnapped by suspected body part dealers in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. An online post by a rights activist, Israel Joe, said the women were abducted last week by two men in a mini bus and taken to a forest. The activist said the women were stripped and their nude photos sent to their families with threats of killing them if the relations failed to pay N5m ransom, adding that the women watched as others victims, whose families could not pay, were killed. According to the post, the young women were released after a ransom of N200,000 was paid. Meanwhile, the Rivers State Police Command has ordered an investigation into a viral video on the social media where one of the women claimed that she was abducted and taken to a forest in the Etche Local Government Area of the state. The Commissioner of Police, Eboka Friday, said this in a statement issued by the command’s spokesman, Nnamdi Omoni, in Port Harcourt. In the video, the woman said she was kidnapped after boarding a tricycle in Iwofe, near Port Harcourt, beaten and taken to the said forest. She corroborated the activist’s post that that while in the forest, the abductors stripped her and sent her nude photos to her family members and demanded N3m ransom. She said in her presence, about seven abductees were killed, adding that the hoodlums spared her because she had previously given birth. The victim stated, “They (kidnappers) touched my breast and said because I had given birth, they shoved me to one side. They said they were looking for people who hadn’t given birth. “They said I had given birth and that I was of no use, because they were looking for women who had not given birth. “They were slaughtering people that hadn’t given birth in my presence. I was crying and wondering what would happen to me. “The next thing was that they took my naked photos and sent to my people for them to pay N3m. They don’t have that kind of money, so they were pleading. “Friends from various areas started helping. The little they gathered, they gave them with pleading. People were crying and begging. “They killed about seven persons in my presence. Even there was a lady suffering from asthma, she died on my laps and they threw her body inside a pit.” The lady also alleged that a woman, who travelled from Lagos to Port Harcourt to visit a male friend, also fell into the hands of the miscreants, adding that some persons were coming to their den to buy human parts. She added, “Facebook friends, I saw somebody that they brought there. She said she came from Lagos to look for someone. They slaughtered her and sold her parts. She had not given birth before. “Nigerians should help and do something because people are being killed in Rivers State. Mini-buses, tinted vehicles and tricycles are risky. People should be careful.” But the CP said in the statement that the police had studied the video and asked the woman to lodge a complaint at a police station closest to her. The statement read in part,” The attention of the Rivers State Police Command has been drawn to a viral video on social media by a middle-aged lady with startling revelations about her ordeal in the hands of kidnappers in a forest in the Etche LGA  of Rivers State, where she was harassed and tortured, before her eventual release. “The command has carefully studied the video and has found it expedient to react as follows: That the issues raised in the viral video be and are hereby ordered to be investigated, to ascertain their veracity. That the command wishes to appeal to the general public and indeed the young lady to access the nearest police station and lodge her complaint for necessary action. “That the Commissioner of Police, Eboka Friday, wishes to reassure the public that there is no cause for alarm as undercover operatives have been deployed for that purpose. Residents of the state are advised to remain calm and ignore certain misguided posts on social media capable of creating fear and panic in the minds of residents of the state.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com