Nigerian Breweries Plc has inaugurated a 663.6 kilowatts-peak solar plant at its Ibadan Brewery. The plant, according to the company, is expected to supply about 800 megawatt-hours to the brewery annually, providing a significant reduction to the current cost of power and reducing the plant’s carbon dioxide emissions by over 10,000 tonnes over the lifespan of the plant. The Governor of Oyo State, Seyi Makinde, at the inauguration ceremony on Thursday,  Makinde, commended the management of the company for investing in a solar plant, which he said would promote environmental sustainability. He was quoted in a statement as saying that his administration would continue to play its part by creating an environment that supports businesses in the state to grow. “This is another first in Oyo State. When history will be written about how NB Plc shifted from electricity to renewable energy, it would be said that Ibadan plant was the first and as a government,we are very proud to be part of this story,” he said. Makinde lauded the commitment of Nigerian Breweries towards achieving its target of switching to 70 per cent renewable energy usage by 2030, saying the completion of the Ibadan Solar Power Plant had clearly demonstrated the company’s determination to reach the goal. The Chairman, Nigerian Breweries, Chief Kolawole Jamodu, commended the governor for his efforts in positioning the state as an investment destination and creating a conducive environment for businesses to thrive.He said this encouraged the company to site the pilot of its solar power project in Ibadan. The Managing Director, Nigerian Brewerie, Mr. Jordi Borrut Bel, described the company as the first brewer in Nigeria to inaugurate a solar power plant providing renewable, clean energy for manufacturing. He said the plant cost over N300m and was built through a fully financed solar Power Purchase Agreement executed with Crossboundary Energy Limited. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com