Tell us about your business? We sell wristwatches, sneakers, sunglasses and fashionable bracelets. I also own a logistics company, which renders services within Lagos State. What is your educational background? For my elementary education, I attended Dee Positive Nursery and Primary School.  From there, I went on to New Lagos College for my secondary education. I later studied Accountancy at the Yaba College of Technology, Lagos. Do you have any corporate work experience? Unfortunately, I don’t. I have always wanted to be my own boss. It took a lot to make that happen but with consistency, I am glad that i achieved it. How long have you been in business? The clothing company was started five years ago, while the logistics company is just one year and three months old. I cannot wait to see what the future holds for me. What motivated you to start your business? My mum is my biggest motivation. She is a good business woman. She actually wanted me to do a 9am-5pm white collar job, but everyone has got their dreams. I chose my path and I am happy about it. I have never regretted the decision. How much was your initial capital and how did you raise it? I had a start-up capital of about N500,000. I had to save in bits in order to achieve my goal. What are the major challenges you’ve faced over the years? There are challenges in every business and mine was not different. However, while starting up, I had to face some tough challenges, especially in the area of employees. Some people always come up with different excuses and I had to deal with them because if one is not careful, some employees could ruin one’s business with their inefficiency. People do not like to patronise logistic companies that are not reliable, so I try my best to avoid casting my company in that light. At times, one loses staff members when one least expects to, but by God’s grace, we have been able to pull through. How do you get customers? I get clients from referrals by friends and family members. I also post adverts on different social media platforms. Have you ever thought of quitting your business and seeking paid employment? Yes, there were times I harboured such thoughts. Business is not for the faint-hearted. To keep going, one has to be determined, focused and trust in God. Is your business registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission? Yes, it is. How profitable has the business been? For a business to be deemed profitable, the gross profit must be sufficient to cover all overhead expenses. So, yes, it is very profitable. What other skills do you possess? I draw and I am also a good photographer. Where do you see yourself and your business in the next five years? Over the next few years, I want to explore and develop skills in project management. In five years, I want to have gained experience in leading projects for major clients. I would be on the lookout for opportunities to help me achieve my goal. Do you think Nigerian youths are taking enough advantage of entrepreneurship, considering the lack of jobs out there? Yes, there is actually a very huge hope for entrepreneurship. With the present situation in the country right now, many young people are engaging themselves in one legitimate business or the other. How many employees do you have? I currently have four members of staff. How do you recruit your staff? I recruit through a qualified and trusted agent. What has been the most influential factor in the success of your business? That would be an efficient transportation system and proper planning. What advice do you have for young entrepreneurs just starting out? Never give up. Always trust your instincts and remember, there’s no short cut in life. You have to work hard to achieve your dreams. For your logistics business, how do you ensure dispatch riders don’t abscond with the properties of customers? I monitor the day-to-day operational movement of the bikes by installing trackers on them. That enables me to see every move the riders make. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com