Yesterday, family, friends, and fans celebrated Yeni Anikulapo-Kuti, daughter of the late musical legend, Fela Anikulapo-Kuti, on her 60th birthday. In an ecstatic mood, Yeni served her friends and followers on social media some hot and lovely photos to mark the milestone in her life. To highlight her 60th birthday, her fans surprised the co-host of the popular Nigerian talk show, Your View, with a  fully paid car gift. The birthday gift was presented by the anchor of the TV show, Morayo Brown. At the end of the day, the sexagenarian held an exclusive birthday dinner at The New Afrika Shrine, and among the dignitaries that were present was the Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu. However, some reports have surfaced online which states that during the birthday party, Seun Kuti, a brother of the celebrant, walked out on the governor of Lagos State. Although the birthday girl has taken to Twitter to clear the air, she further spoke to The Punch to recount the incident. In her Twitter post, Yeni wrote, “What happened was that the security detail in the course of doing their duty pushed his wife. He got upset at them understandably so, not to the governor. He even explained to the governor. I beg o! He has home training.” Also, in a phone chat with The Punch, the sexagenarian stressed that the incident was blown out of proportion and she tagged the reports going around social media as fake news. She said, “People just like to sell fake news. I have already treated what happened. Seun’s wife was moving past the governor’s table and his security detail stopped her; the way they do, overzealous security people and Seun got angry. Everything has been settled because, after the episode, Seun spoke with the governor. It is just fake news and they just want to spoil my birthday.” Looking back at her life, the sexagenarian noted that she has no regrets as she revealed the secret behind her youthful looks. She further revealed that although she rocks her grey hair gracefully, she does not like it. She said, “I don’t dwell on what I could have done better, I just rectify that part of my life. There is no point in regret; if you regret it, you cannot solve the problem. If I feel that I did not do something right, the next time around, I do it in a better way. Looking back, I am very grateful to God for my daughter, grandchildren, partner, and my siblings. These are what I am thankful to God for. “I do work out a lot although I have not done that for a few weeks now and I feel that I am not at my best because I feel overweight right now. At first, my grey hair was okay but now it is too much. I do not like my grey hair at all and I do not want to dye it. I believe God has given it to me; I may not like it but I have accepted it.”