The Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators of Nigeria has said it is committed to building capacity in corporate governance to ensure the continuity of businesses. The Chairman, Corporate Governance Capacity Building Committee of the 2021 roundtable on Corporate Governance, ICSAN, Adeyinka Hassan, said this during a press briefing on its upcoming virtual roundtable event, with the theme ‘Ethical governance in the boardroom: Implications for stakeholders’. He said, “We know what is happening in our society today. There has been a lot of failure in terms of corporate management and what contribution we are making to strengthen our corporate polity to ensure that there is success in how we run business and in how we do business. “That is what corporate governance is all about. We are about to ensuring sustainability in how businesses are done; we don’t want to run business that is profitable for just a few years, but we want businesses that can stand the test of time. “We want businesses that will enrol even in such a way that generation upon generation will continue to meet the legacy that we lay down.” Hassan said the institute was committed to building capacity for its members and non-members for the corporate polity. He said the institute was concerned about ensuring the principles of corporate governance in the corporate world. Hassan said, “One of the things we do is the corporate governance roundtable and what we do is we pick subject areas that are of interest or that may be trending at a particular point in time and we address it jointly. “We bring thought leaders together to share their views and in the process, we strengthen capacity for everybody that is participating in the programme. We equally come up with issues that may affect policy development even with the government. “We also look at things relating to public sector because you cannot run corporate governance in isolation.” While noting that there had been several issues of corporate governance, he said the institute was committed to addressing this issue. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com