The Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, has urged Muslim clerics and other religious leaders in the country to continue to preach peace and development in the ongoing Ramadan period so as to foster unity and progress of the nation. Oyetola spoke at the special welfare support programme organised by the Daaru-r-Rahmat Islamic Society in Osogbo, to mark the ongoing Ramadan fast. Oyetola stated that preaching peace and tranquillity was the only way meaningful development could get to the doorsteps of the masses. About 500 members of DARMAT and other well-wishers were given relief packages as a way of supporting them in this period of fast, a statement said. Oyetola, represented by the state Commissioner for Finance, Munirudern Oyebamiji, added, “The Ramadan period and other days of one’s life must be used to preach peace instead of hatred so as to promote peace and unity of the country.” The governor also praised the organisers for their efforts and expressed confidence that it would go a long way to reduce poverty in society, saying, “Ramadan is a period of giving out to the needy and this welfare support programme your society is doing will add more value to the society.” He also assured Osun people that his administration would not relent in its efforts at providing more dividends of democracy to the people of the state in order to move the state forward. The founder of the DARMAT society, Ustaz Musbahudeen, in his response, lauded the “giant stride” of the present administration in the state in addressing the needs of the people. He said the development had translated to reliable economic growth and prosperity in the state, noting that the move was to add value to the socioeconomic growth of the members during the ongoing Ramadan period. The event also had in attendance Commissioner for Human Resources and Capacity Building, Ms Lateefat Giwa; and Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftains Affairs, Prince Abdul Adeleke. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com