A young lady’s message to me reads, ‘’I am in love with this guy. He took my virginity, but the truth is I have never enjoyed sex with him. I fake everything during love-making. Not because he’s not good but I have a problem. I am addicted to pornography. And my mind has been built around it that I can’t ‘cum’ except while watching porn. Although I don’t touch myself, I ‘cum’ when I watch it. My man doesn’t know about it. I am worried that it is now a psychological problem because the pornography plays in my head with his image. I used to see porn on my elder brother’s phone when I was about 11 to 12 years old. At first, it didn’t appeal to me but I concluded that watching porn and satisfying myself sexually will help me keep my virginity. I have prayed and tried to stop it but it is not working. I even imagine and play the porn in my head with my man’s image. Please, what do you suggest I do?’’ Porn can easily become an addiction to the mind that is untamed towards pleasure. Anyone who is in TOTAL control of the mind SHOULD find porn plain boring at some point! What makes it bad news is when one is unable to leave the imagery in the porn world when it’s time to come back to reality. It’s also disturbing if (watching) porn gives you more satisfaction than the REAL thing. Experts have consistently warned against making porn the ‘go to’ by people wishing to spice up their sex lives. Experts warned that ‘porn use’ can take an emotional toll on relationships because people who use it are ‘neurologically bonding’ not with their partners, but with the ‘porn’. They add that when one partner watches porn surreptitiously, their imagination, and relationship will be put at the mercy of fantasy. Except to really PUT YOU IN THE MOOD, your sex life stands more to benefit from your ingenuity/personal efforts than reliving porn imageries. Working on your mind is the starting point, here. Find ways to distract your mind positively when the urge arises. Engage in and entertain more wholesome thoughts in its place, instead. For example, play music, go for a walk, call your guy or a friend, read something, juice some fruits, do something that requires a degree of energy exertion. Clear your devices of whatever may be contributing to your addiction to porn. And stop downloading further. In love-making, guide your man through your fantasies. This is a demon of self that you conquer with mental discipline.  Not sure there is any point divulging this to your man. You just begin to go the extra mile to purge your mindset of the hold of pornography. Redirect your consciousness. Read more. And that includes your Bible if you are a Christian. Engage your mind on endeavours that are not sex-related. Don’t stop praying. It’s a mind battle and the goal is to regain the total control of your mind. Retrain your mind to entertain unwholesome thoughts, less. However, if you feel overwhelmed, seek the guidance of a professional therapist. Don’t be ashamed to seek help on your issues. People fight darker battles of the mind on a daily basis but the voice you listen to, wins. Anytime such thoughts cross your mind, don’t be hard on yourself or think you are failing at your resolution. Just don’t entertain or do its bidding. Gently, bring back your mind to where you want it and focus it there. Come up with positive affirmations (e.g. “you are not welcomed in this head of mine’’) to help alert your consciousness. With time, your thoughts will wander less in that direction. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com