No fewer than nine cultists have been arrested by men of the Ogun State Police Command in the Ajegunle area of Ibogun, Ifo Local Government Area of the state. The police made the arrests during a supremacy clash between members of the Eiye and Alora confraternities. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this in a statement on Wednesday. Oyeyemi said the suspects, Sodiq Olabisi, Oluwatosin Andrew, Oladimeji Oyedele, Wasiu Raheem, Oyedokun Lekan, Yusuf Ajetunmobi, Busari Taoreed, Bolaji Raphael and Salami Toheeb, were arrested following a bloody clash between the two groups. He stated, “While the clash was going on, a distress call was made to the police divisional headquarters in Ibogun and the DPO, CSP Samuel Oladele, quickly led his men to the scene. “On sighting the policemen, the cultists, who had already inflicted serious injuries on the chest of a member of the Alora group, ran away with their injured colleagues, while the police successfully apprehended nine suspects. “A cutlass, five knives, two axes, five phone batteries and N4,000 were recovered from the suspects.” The PPRO said the Commissioner of Police, Edward Ajogun, ordered the immediate transfer of the suspects to the anti-cult section of the state Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department for discreet investigation. Oyeyemi said the commissioner also ordered that the fleeing members of the groups should be hunted and brought to justice. Meanwhile, the command has  debunked a  report on social media  claiming that the Mowe/Ofada/Owode-Egba road in the Obafemi-Owode local government area of the state  has become  kidnappers’ den. The police described the report as a rumour, saying , the report is “nothing but a false alarm and a calculated attempt to cause panic in the mind of the people, most especially those living in that axis. The Police Public  Relations Officer in the state , DSP, Abimbola Oyeyemi  said this in a statement on Wednesday . Oyeyemi in the statement said “the attention of Ogun State Police Command has been drawn to a publication circulating on social media warning people to avoid Mowe/Ofada/Owode-Egba road,  as the road according to the false alarm has turned to kidnapper’s den. “The only kidnapping case that has ever been recorded in the area mentioned is that of a woman who was ambushed and abducted in her farm alongside her visitor on the 1st of May 2021. “ The two abductees have since regained their freedom and some suspects arrested by the Command in connection with the case while others on the run are being trailed. “It is therefore a thing of surprise that somebody would just sit down in the comfort of his room and declare the entire area unsafe because of an isolated incident. “The Command hereby advises the general public to discountenance the information in its entirety, as it is nothing but handwork of mischief makers. “The Command is doing everything possible to ensure the safety of good people of the State, and the cooperation of everybody is needed in this regard Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com