In the highly competitive music industry, it is believed that reality shows serve as veritable platforms for artistes to showcase their talents and shine in the entertainment industry. However, some winners and strong contenders on these shows seem to be missing in action. TOFARATI IGE takes a look at some of them Iyanya Iyanya Mbuk won the maiden edition of Project Fame West Africa in 2008 and for those who followed the show, it was evident that the dude was both talented and charismatic. Shortly after winning the competition, Iyanya started working on new materials and his debut album titled, ‘My Story’ was eventually released in 2009. Though two of the singles on the album, ‘Love Truly’ and ‘No Time’ were well received by fans, the album itself did not do too well. The singer then seemed to go through a phase of rediscovering himself and his sound and the result was the hit track, ‘Kukere’. That song changed Iyanya’s fortunes and he soon became the toast of the music industry. He followed it up with several other songs and another studio album. However, along the line, Iyanya fell out with his former partner and co-record label owner, Ubi Franklin, which led to the former’s exit from the Made Men Music Group. Iyanya later signed with Temple Music and Mavin Records at different times but he does not seem to have found the magic formula that would catapult him back to reckoning. The talented singer is not resting on his oars and he has continued to release music and perhaps, the next hit song that would catapult him to the limelight is just around the corner. Chidinma Ekile Pretty and blessed with an angelic voice, Chidinma Ekile seems to have everything to excel in the music industry. What she lacks in height and stature, she makes up for with her powerful vocals that command attention whenever she sings. Ekile won the third edition of Project Fame West Africa in 2010 and after the competition, she did not waste time before churning out hits such as ‘Kedike’, ‘Jankoliko’ and ‘Carry you Go’. At a time, she was considered one of the top female artistes in the country but it has been a while since the singer, who was born blind, has had a hit song. She is also not usually seen at social events and gatherings. Though she has over seven million followers on Instagram, she deleted all the pictures on the picture sharing app, leaving just a picture quote which was posted on February 10, 2021. The post read, “Temporarily closed for spiritual maintenance’. Her fans seem to assume that the former Capital Hill Records signee has gone back to the drawing board, with many of them waiting for her to return from her ‘temporary break’ and serenade them with new music. Meanwhile, she also recorded a joint Extended Play album with Flavour titled, ‘40 Years Everlasting’. The album was released in November 2019 and some critics have said it did not attract as much attention as it ordinarily should. Some weeks ago, the singer revealed that she had dumped secular music for gospel music. According to her, she now prefers to be called ‘Minister Chidinma’ or ‘Mummy GO’. Omawumi Omawumi Megbele-Yusuf is one singer that finds it effortless to hit high notes when singing. Thus, it was not surprising that many people fell in love with her music when she first appeared on the scene. Omawumi was the first runner-up in the 2007 edition of West Africa Idols, and though she did not win the show, it was clear to discerning observers that she had a bright future in the industry. Some of the hit songs she released in the early days of her career are ‘If you Ask Me’, ‘Bottom Belle’, ‘In the Music’ and ‘Somori’. She also has four albums in her repertoire― ‘In Her Feelings’, ‘Lasso of Truth’, ‘Timeless’ and ‘Wonder Woman’. However, for some time, Omawumi has not had the kind of hit song expected from an artiste of her status. She released a new song titled, ‘Bulls**t’ on Friday, and perhaps that’s all she would need to launch herself back to reckoning. Mike Anyasodo Like others on this list, Mike Anyasodo, aka iMike, came into the industry with so much promise and he was tipped by some pundits to be one of those who would have music lovers eating from his palms. He was the winner of the second edition of Project Fame West Africa in 2009 and many were impressed by his performance and smooth delivery on the show. His first single after the competition was titled ‘Fine Fine Lady’ and it quickly went on to become a crowd favourite. However, iMike seemed unable to sustain the tempo with which he came into the industry and needless to say, he did not live up to the expectation of many of his followers and critics. Other songs under his belt include ‘Adaure’, ‘Football’, Bad Man Dope’ and ‘Nwata’. Jeff Akoh Jeff Akoh was the winner of the eighth season of Project Fame West Africa in 2015 and there is no doubt that he is an amazing vocalist. At that time, he was said to be 14 and was allegedly the youngest winner of the competition as of that time. Upon winning the show, the singer released tracks such as? About two years later, he released a 16-track Extended Play album titled, ‘Lokoja’, and the lead single of the project, ‘I Do’ was said to have amassed one million views on YouTube. However, for some years now, nothing much has been heard from him. He released a song titled, ‘Better Life’ in June 2020 but it did not make significant impact. He has also been featured by some artistes but none of the songs enjoyed massive airplay. Geoffrey Oji A singer and songwriter, Geoffrey Oji won the hearts of the judges and audience of the seventh season of Project Fame West Africa, which he eventually won. His effortless vocal range and melodious harmony won him many fans and it seemed to be only a matter of time before he started calling the shots in the music industry. However, the singer has been unable to sustain his initial momentum. It has been a while since he released any chart topping song and he is rarely on the bill of big events. Monica Ogah One of Monica Ogah’s strengths is her ability to switch mellifluously from RnB to soul, pop and highlife. After winning the fourth edition of Project Fame West Africa in 2011, she released a hit song titled, ‘Body Hug’. This was followed by her debut album titled, ‘Sometime in August’ in 2013, and it was well received by her fans. In 2014, she featured Harrysong on a track titled, ‘Obim bu nke gi’. A check on her Instagram page revealed that the last song she released was titled, ‘Oghene Migwor’. In January 2021, she released an Extended Play album titled, ‘Different’, containing songs such as ‘Over Again’, ‘Owofu’ and ‘Onye Le Bawa’. However, it did not attract enough attention to make it a resounding hit. Okiemute Ighorodje Okiemute Ighorodje emerged the winner of the ninth edition of Project Fame West Africa in 2016, and she wasted no time in releasing a single titled, ‘Good Loving’. She has gone to release other songs including ‘African Wonder’, ‘Wosa’, ‘Money’, ‘Trouble’ and ‘Kalakuta’. Though it is obvious that she is hard-working and is not relenting in her efforts to give her fans good music, the songs have not been able to attract considerable attention. Moses Adigwe Chubby and usually armed with a charming and disarming smile, it is not surprising that Moses Adigwe was given the nickname, ‘Teddy Bear’. The singer shocked many when he was declared the winner of the third season of Nigeria Idol in 2013. That’s because he was in the ‘Wild Card’ section of the competition and many actually thought he would not make it. However, after winning the singing competition, not much has been heard from him, which has led many of his fans to wonder what he has been up to. K Peace A confident and energetic stage performer, Kunle Ogunronbi, aka K Peace, was the darling of many as a contestant on the fifth season of Nigerian Idol in 2015. He could easily switch from one genre of music to the other without breaking a sweat and it did not come as a surprise when he was declared the winner of the competition. In 2020, he released some songs titled, ‘Halele’ and ‘Millions’, and in February 2021, he put out a song titled, ‘Ediyeawan’. However, one of the songs made it to the top of the charts. Evelle Evelyn Zubili, aka Evelle, won the Nigeria Idol in 2014 and her performances on the show were well applauded. She went on to release songs such as ‘Time to Shine’ (2016) and ‘Na Work’ (2018). In 2020, she released another song titled, ‘Kilimajaro’ but those efforts were apparently not enough to vault her to the top of the music industry. Olawale It came as a shock to many when it was reported that the winner of the sixth season of Project Fame West Africa, Olawale Ojo, simply known as Olawale, had become a cab driver. While some sympathised with him, some felt he had squandered the N5m he won the show. However, the singer dismissed the claims that he ‘blew’ the money, stating that he became a cab driver to support his music career. Evidently talented, many believe he still has what to shine in the music industry. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com