West Bath, a small town of fewer than 2,000 people in the US State of Maine, doesn’t often make national news. But it did on Wednesday morning two weeks ago, when a two-year-old boy shot his parents, injuring them and himself. That the parents left the loaded 9mm semi-automatic handgun on their nightstand says much about America’s gun culture, of course. More significantly, the incident is a metaphor of sorts for the reverse trajectory of civilisation. Even as society grows in the sophistication of the technologies at its disposal, human emotions remain relatively infantile. That is, in evolutionary terms, the human psyche is not keeping pace with technological advancement. And that means that civilisation is going in reverse in much the same way that a person becomes poorer when his financial obligations rise faster than his income. When people think of civilisation, they typically think of increasing technological sophistication. That has always been a part of what anthropologists examine when they write about different civilisations. But they’ve always gone much beyond that to look at other attributes of society, most notably temperance and disposition to co-existence. One does not have to be an anthropologist or sociologist to notice that both are generally static or in decline worldwide. Psychologist Sigmund Freud predicted as much early in the 20th century, when he warned that the animalistic instinct still lurked in human beings. It could be said that there has been a flare up of that instinct early in the 21st century.  Bloomberg columnist Pankaj Mishra addressed this in his aptly titled 2017 book, “Age of Anger: A History of the Present.” Aspects of the current ferment around the world are related to efforts to redress wrongs. But much of it can be traced to the human mind’s relatively primitive state and susceptibility. People are increasingly getting incensed and resorting to strife for reasons that range from the inarticulate to the absurd. Two disparate examples are the worldwide Islamist insurgencies and the assault of the US Congress in January by supporters of then outgoing President Donald Trump. The US is readily the richest country in the world. And the insurgents at the Capitol were mostly white males, the most privileged demographic group. Many of them subscribe to the philosophy of white supremacy. It is the related resentment that made them so susceptible to former president Donald Trump’s false and widely discredited claims that he was rigged out of office. Despite the overwhelming evidence to the contrary, the false claims drove them to do something that was dismayingly irrational: attempt to scuttle Congressional certification of election results and in the process upend their country’s centuries-old democratic order. Since September 2001, when Osama bin Laden’s al Qaeda launched a devastating attack on the US, much of the security measures in the country has been geared toward preventing a repeat of that horror. But recently Attorney General Merrick Garland testified in Congress that the greatest threat facing America’s democracy today is from white supremacists. “In my career as a judge and in law enforcement, I have not seen a more dangerous threat to democracy than the invasion of the Capitol,” Garland told the Senate Appropriations Committee. He said the incursion was an “attempt to interfere with a fundamental element of our democracy, the peaceful transfer of power.” Garland’s assessment is widely shared by the US law enforcement community. What is interesting is that Trump didn’t create the group; he merely exploited their existing angry disposition. And the anger is based on nightmarish conjectures about their marginalisation and conspiracy theories about losing the US to “foreigners.” Interestingly, it is similar fears and conjectures that drive Islamist insurgencies around the world. Islamists — not to be confused with Muslims in general — have this vision of an ascendant Islam that becomes the world’s sole religion. So, at a time when other religions — including, Christianity — have come to accept the secular order and to respect the rights of people to believe as they choose, Islamists are intensifying jihadi warfare.  They reject the co-existence that existed even in the Muslim-controlled Ottoman Empire as far back as the 14th century and that has been the norm in most Arab countries. Boko Haram, for example, has railed against “Western education.” Never mind that the Islamic world was once at the vanguard of the civilisations that gave rise to that education. Among its contributions are today’s Arabic numerals and algebra. Even the politics of Nigeria’s Indigenous People of Biafra can be explained in terms of the susceptibility of the human mind. Sure, the Igbo rightly point to recent unfavourable government policies. But there is no question that the intensity of the resentment derives more from the echo-chamber effects than from the realities. Today the echo-chamber is largely housed in social media, where groups reinforce each other’s grievances without rebuttal or critique. It has the effect of compromising rationality, even of otherwise rational people. It is in this regard that IPOB, Boko Haram and America’s white supremacists have much in common. Alas, they are not alone. Take a look at the carnage in Gaza, the result of an unending conflict between Jews and Palestinians, two people with much kinship. Somehow, Israel believes that its path to peace lies in expanding farther and farther into Palestinian territories and keeping the Palestinians caged in. Meanwhile, embittered Palestinians — embodied by Hamas — believe that firing relatively crude missiles into Israel is the way out. That is, despite knowing that the Israelis will bombard the congested territory, killing hundreds and leveling neighbourhoods. The history of the conflict is complicated. Not so complicated is what it says about humanity. Jews and Palestinians co-existed better in biblical times than they are today, more than 2,000 years later. That’s something for all human beings to ponder. And the future doesn’t look promising in this regard for the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and, for that matter, the rest of the world. Even as the animalistic instinct remains, increasingly sophisticated weapons are being developed. Other than the familiar hardware of missiles, artillery and jet fighters, there is the potential horror of biological warfare. And there are recent reports of “directed energy” attacks, involving the use of lasers and microwave energies to sicken people. It’s so stealthy that those attacked don’t know it until they begin to fall sick days or weeks later. As weapons advance and proliferate, increasingly sophisticated communication technologies make it easier to create echo-chambers and stoke anger. So, in place of the temperance and empathy that characterise civilisation, there will be growing animosity and strife. The consequence for humanity can be dire. The potentially cataclysmic lag in the evolution of human emotions would seem to be a priority to researchers. Instead, some of the world’s brightest minds are labouring to make robots more human. A much more urgent quest would be to seek to make humans more humane. The idea is to cultivate those traits that supposedly distinguish us as humans so that we may transcend the animalistic instincts that have remained with us over several millennia of evolution. Specifically, that would entail cultivating positive traits such as empathy, honesty and a sense of justice while weeding out the negatives such as self-centeredness, anger and malice. It’s a matter of survival of society as we know it. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com