 There is no how the beautiful story of Ogun State can be told, in terms of the accelerated developmental projects, amongst others that have impacted positively in the economic well-being of the citizens, without giving credit to the current administration of Prince Dapo Abiodun. On his way to power in 2019, Abiodun had promised to make life better for the people of the state, refloat the economy, by widening the frontiers of trade and investment, through the provision of an enabling business environment, enhance political space and foster peace and harmony between and among the people. True to type, his has earned itself, “a promise-keeping administration” in the last two years, since inception. This is a rare feat in the chequered history of the state, since its creation on February 3, 1976, that any administration could deliver within a space of two years, speedy initiation and execution of projects, and provision of laudable programmes that have had direct and indirect positive impacts on its people. His ascension to office, at that critical moment when the morale of both the civil and public servants was at the lowest ebb, shortly after the exit of Ibikunle Amosun from office was salutary. Upon his assumption of office on May 29, 2019, Abiodun did not betray the trust reposed in him. He has been walking the talk. Three days in office, he entered into a social contract with the workers of the state government and pledged the payment of their wages and salaries, with or without FAAC or JAAC, on/or before the last working day of every month. This has come to stay. With effect from October 2020 salaries, the administration commenced the payment of the negotiated minimum wage of N30,500 to the workers, the highest of its kind in the entire South-West. The same goes to pensioners in the payment of their gratuities. As a standing order, Abiodun, on a quarterly basis, has earmarked a sum of N500 million to defray inherited backlogs of the previous administration. Also, he had approved a monthly average payment of N791 million as pension for retired local government council workers and SUBEB retirees. To discernible minds, the secret behind these successes can be attributed to the mission statement of the administration anchored on the acronym, ISEYA (Infrastructure, Social Welfare and Wellbeing, Education, Youth Development and Agriculture). They form the most striking features with visible and invaluable interventions by the governor. In its implementation, infrastructure has remained the centre piece of the administration. It is a veritable tool for accelerating economic growth and development of the state. In retrospect, a newspaper headline, entitled, “Investors Dump Lagos as Ogun Becomes New Industrial Hub”, reinforced the new reality on the ground as an investment destination of choice. It added that the investors complained that traffic and Apapa Port congestions make the movement of trucks and lives difficult, while the land tenure system in Lagos has been tougher, thus, making business expansion onerous. “Out of N3,353 trillion pumped in new investments in manufacturing and agro-processing sectors in six years, Lagos got N928.02 billion, while Ogun welcomed N1.682 trillion within the period”. The breakdown shows that Lagos received 27.67 per cent of the total investments, while Ogun State got 50.16 per cent, an indication that the state is now Nigeria’s industrial hub. Also, 34 states and the Federal Capital Territory, shared the remaining 22.17 per cent, thus, reflecting their unattractiveness to investors. Meanwhile, within two years under review, Abiodun has raised the bar of performance with the reconstruction and completion of well over 270.88 kilometres of (34) road(s) and also, the rehabilitation of well over 322.637 kilometres of 41 roads across the state. As a quick-fix mechanism to address the inherited deplorable condition of roads, the establishment of the Ogun State Public Works Agency was saddled with the responsibility of rehabilitating all existing roads that were competing for attention. It is the belief of the governor that the rehabilitation of the several inner-city roads and freshly constructed ones are a boost for speedy economic activities. At a recently inaugurated 10.25 kilometre Lusada-Igbesa road undertaken by the Ogun Guangdong Free Trade Zone, in partnership with the state government, Abiodun averred thus, “No doubt, the constitution of the 10.25-kilometre Lusada-Igbesa road in partnership with the Ogun Guangdong  Free Trade Zone, Igbesa, is a commendable project. And we are happy to have the road opened, given its benefit for improved investments and individual prosperity of all the people in Igbesa, Lusada and adjoining towns. But, as an adjoining road, it is important to note that the full benefits of this newly constructed road can be realised only when the Atan-Lusada-Agbara road is rehabilitated and reconstructed. That import is not lost on us. We have just performed the ceremony of the turn of the sod of the Atan-Lusada-Agbara road. All things being equal, the road will be completed soonest and both the Atan-Lusada-Agbara road and the Lusada-Igbesa Free Trade Zone will complement each other for the full benefits of our people”. The unyielding commitment and resolve to building a more prosperous, equitable, just, inclusive, participatory and sustainable society by the governor is no exception. Also, security is an integral part to the prosperity and growth of any society. In the wake of insurgency, banditry, kidnapping and other violent crimes in the country, the administration has left no stone unturned. A thriving business environment requires an enthronement of peace and tranquility to attract potential investors to open shops where their investments will be safe, protected and secured. On the strength of the state House of Assembly’s legislation backing to the Ogun State Security Trust Fund chaired by Mr Bolaji Balogun, the administration has procured no fewer than 400 patrol vehicles, 200 powered-bikes, communications gadgets and other kits for effective patrol of all nooks and crannies of the state. Not left out, insurance packages and allowances for the operatives of the police and other sister agencies to ginger the men to put in their best to police the state effectively, without let or hindrance were rolled. The recently inaugurated “Amotekun” in the state is a model that has contributed significantly to abate the orgy of kidnappings and other violent crimes that had been the order of the day. Through the political will, police aerial patrol has complemented the efforts of the state government in the search-and-rescue operations of kidnapped victims, and the subsequent arrests of suspects, whenever the need arises. However, the successes of the two-year landmark achievements can be attributed to the unyielding commitment of Mr Governor towards building a more prosperous, equitable and sustainable society that separates him from the pack. Ogbonnikan wrote from Abeokuta, Ogun state capita  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com