The Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress has generated about N996.5m from selling governorship and councillorship forms, Saturday PUNCH has learnt. Our correspondent learnt that councillorship forms were sold at N505,000 for persons above the age of 40 while women and persons below 40 bought the forms for N300,000. Aspirants vying for local government chairmanship bought the forms for N2,050,000 while those below 40 and women paid N1,050,000 to purchase the forms. The state secretary of the APC in Lagos State, Lanre Ogunyemi, had revealed last week that 332 chairmanship and 1,053 councillorship aspirants will be screened across the 20 local government areas and 37 local council development areas. He, however, did not disclose how many youths and women would be contesting in the elections but it was learnt that most of those vying for councillorship seats were below 40 while those above 40 opted for local government offices. This newspaper reports that at least N315.9m was generated from 1, 053 councillorship aspirants if they all purchased the forms at the cost of N300,000 while N680.6m was generated from the 332 chairmanship aspirants if they all bought the forms for N2, 050,000. The Spokesman for the APC in Lagos State, Mr. Seye Oladejo, told our correspondent that he did not know exactly how much the party had generated from the sale of forms. Oladejo, however, said many aspirants purchased the APC forms because they were confident of internal democracy and a level playing field during the process. He said this had been echoed by the party leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, last week. Oladejo further stated that the APC and its legacy parties – the Action Congress of Nigeria and the Alliance for Democracy – had been winning the local government elections in the state since 1999 hence many were confident that joining the party would boost their chances of victory. The Lagos APC spokesman said, “We are doing everything to promote internal democracy and to put forward popular candidates who will be able to deliver for the party on the day of election and that is why we have many coming out because they have a good chance of winning elections at the polls. Asiwaju only spoke the mind of a large majority of our members.” Tinubu had while speaking with journalists last week said he had no preference for any candidate in the upcoming elections. “I have received numerous phone calls and inquiries by our people near and far that I have asked some people not to contest or to withdraw. That is far from the truth. Every one of you (Lagosians) who are members of the APC has the right to participate in the local government elections as long as you are a registered member of our party. Nobody is my favourite candidate,” Tinubu had said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com