The Edemo of Ado Ekiti, Chief Bamidele Aduloju, on Saturday hailed the Supreme Court judgment, which affirmed him as the title holder nine years after his removal by the Ewi of Ado Ekiti, Oba Adeyemo Adejugbe. Aduloju called on Ado Ekiti indigenes and members of the Edemo family to remain calm and maintain the peace so as to avoid unnecessary enmity and acts that could truncate the peace and affect the development of the city. The chief, who spoke in Ado Ekiti in reaction to the Supreme Court judgment said, “The next thing now is that soon, members of my family will go to the palace to meet the Ewi, Oba Adejugbe, since the court has resolved the matter.” Following a disagreement between Oba Adejugbe and Aduloju, the monarch had in 2012 removed him and consequently installed one Dayo Fajemilua as the Edemo of Ado Ekiti. But the Supreme Court, in a judgment read by Justice Samuel Oseji on Friday, declared as a nullity “the nomination and appointment of Dayo Fajemilua as Edemo of Ado Ekiti by the Ewi of Ado during the pendency of a court action,” adding, “I declare that Chief James Bamidele Aduloju remains the authentic Edemo of Ado Ekiti.” Aduloju said, “We expect Kabiyesi to abide by the judgment of the Supreme Court as the highest court in the country. My appeal to Ado Ekiti people and members of my family is that all of us should remain calm and peaceful. There is no victor and no vanquished in the matter. Our focus should be on the growth and development of Ado Ekiti. “Nobody should give room for unnecessary rumour and hearsay, which cause crises. It was such things that created the crisis between Kabiyesi and I. It was some people, who were not pleased with the friendship between Kabiyesi and I, who created the crisis so that they could make an inroad. I don’t want to create any room for such again. “I thank members of the Edemo family for standing by me from the beginning till today. I know they will stand by me till the end.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com