PARTICIPANTS at the public hearing on the National Assembly’s proposed alterations to the 1999 Constitution on Wednesday called for a fresh constitution for the country. Those who spoke at the public hearings held in Asaba, Enugu, Akure…dismissed the amendment to the constitution being undertaken by the National Assembly, saying it was becoming a jamboree. 1999 Constitution hurriedly put up – Okowa In Delta State, Governor, Ifeanyi Okowa, said a new constitution for the country had become imperative in view of observed lacunas in the 1999 Constitution. Okowa stated this on Wednesday when the Senate Sub-Committee on review of the 1999 Constitution visited him at the Government House, Asaba. “We know that some amendments were made recently but on a general note, we are also aware that the Constitution itself appears to have just been hurriedly put up just before the 1999 elections and handed over,” Okowa added. Current constitution leading Nigeria to extinction, says Afe Babalola In Ekiti State, an elder statesman and founder of Afe Babalola University, Ado Ekiti, Aare Afe Babalola, said the National Assembly’s move to amend the 1999 Constitution was a futile exercise. Babalola said on Wednesday that rather, what the National Assembly ought to do was “to call for a National Conference to discuss and make a new true federal constitution which will provide for a parliamentary system of government”. The senior advocate, in a statement titled, ‘Proposed amendment to the 1999 Constitution by the National Assembly: A futile exercise’ said, “The root cause of our problems, which has brought Nigeria to the brink of extinction, is the 1999 constitution foisted on it by the military when it was exiting the reign of governance in 1999.” Babalola, who queried why the National Assembly could not convene a National Conference for a fresh constitution, said, “Alternatively, since amendment in law includes substitution for an existing document, why is it that the National Assembly cannot call for a public hearing on the substitution of the 1999 Constitution for the 1963 Constitution which was made with the consent of the people?” Proponents of new constitution calling for anarchy – Ekweremadu Speaking, a former Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, said those canvassing a new constitution for the country were calling for anarchy. Ekweremadu said, “I have heard that argument; some said bring back our 1960 Constitution, some said bring 1963 Constitution, some said okay, why not just throw away this constitution and bring a new one? “The question is how would you do that? There is no such provision in our constitution unless you are calling for anarchy.” While declaring the hearing open, Enugu State Governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi enjoined all relevant institutions, civil society organizations, stakeholders and entire state citizenry to avail themselves of the opportunity of the zonal public hearing “to participate in this momentous national conversation”. Valentine Madubuko of the National Human Rights Commission, Mazi Zulu Ofoelue of the Movement of Biafrans in Nigeria, and Dr. Ikem Nwafor of YIAGA Africa argued that devolving power to the states and allowing them to have their own police would bring the country from the part of precipice. Ofoelue stated that devolution of powers from the federal to the regions would solve a lot of problems bedeviling the country. In his presentation, however, Nwafor appealed to the National Assembly for the creation of a new constitution and halting of the ongoing constitutional amendment process. FG carries too much weight, says El-Rufai In their remarks, stakeholders from four states of the North-West comprising Kaduna, Katsina, Kano and Jigawa converged on Kaduna on Tuesday for the public hearing. The Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El Rufai, said devolution of powers was necessary because the current structure overburdened the Federal Government with too many responsibilities which it could not efficiently handle. El-Rufai said, “The reality of our security situation today requires that Nigeria must strengthen its military and security agencies. This includes decentralising the police to enable the states to exercise effective control in securing their residents and communities.” 1963 Constitution better for Nigeria – Akeredolu In his remarks, the Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, said it would be better for the country to adopt the 1963 Constitution, which he added contained the principles of true federalism. The governor, who berated the current 1999 Constitution, described it as improper and needed to have been changed before this time. Akeredolu spoke at the opening of the zonal public hearing on the proposed alteration in the provision of the constitution held in Akure, the state capital. According to the governor, there is a need to correct the fundamental mistakes made in the past on the existence of the country. He warned that the ongoing process of amendment of the 1999 Constitution must not be taken frivolously. In his remarks, the Chairman, the Senate Ad-hoc Committee on the Review of the 1999 Constitution, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, explained that the ongoing review provided a platform for Nigerians to express their opinions on the “fundamental law that governs our lives through proposals that will lead to the highest good for the greatest number of our people.” Represented at the hearing by the senator representing Ondo North Senatorial District, Prof. Ajayi Boroffice, the chairman said, “No doubt, we are going to have diverse and differing views on the different themes of the exercise. However, the focus for this committee is how to manage the review in a fair, inclusive, credible and transparent manner.” Sanwo-Olu seeks special status for Lagos, state police Meanwhile, the Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, demanded a special economic status for Lagos, saying the progress and prosperity of Nigeria was linked to the progress and prosperity of Lagos State. The governor also demanded a state police and entrenchment of true fiscal federalism in Nigeria. He made the demands at the opening of the two-day Senate zonal public hearing on the review of the 1999 Constitution under the leadership of Senator Oluremi Tinubu, held at Marriot Hotel, Ikeja in Lagos State. The governor said,“For us in Lagos State, the issues of state police and fiscal federalism are at the top of the priority list for us in this ongoing review process. “Equally fundamental, particularly for us in Lagos State, is the issue of a special economic status for Lagos, considering our place in the national economy and the special burdens we bear by virtue of our large population and limited land mass.” Labour, others call for true federalism, restructuring President of the Nigeria Labour Congress, Ayuba Wabba, Lagos State Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Moyosore Onigbanjo, SAN, and representatives of civil organizations, associations, towns, communities, across the states, professional bodies, among others presented and submitted their individual memorandum to the committee. Wabba insisted that labour and the national minimum wage be retained on the exclusive legislative list. He said, “Any contemplation to remove the national minimum wage from the exclusive legislative list to the concurrent legislative list will only expose Nigeria to international ridicule and opprobrium.” Also, Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Mudashiru Obasa, who was represented by the Lagos State Deputy Speaker, Wasiu Eshinlokun-Sanni, submitted that the most fundamental aspect of the call by state government was the 30 per cent derivation on natural resources for the domiciling states, as well as the criminalising undue interference in activities of the legislature by the executive. The state Chairman of CAN, Rev Steven Adegbite, queried the establishment and functionality of Sharia Courts since the constitution said there would be no state religion. He said CAN might be forced to vie for Canon courts in the spirit of equity and justice. Separatists should embrace dialogue – Yahaya Speaking, the Gombe State Governor, Muhammadu Yahaya, urged secessionists in the country to give the legislators the opportunity of correcting perceived errors in the 1999 Constitution, adding that dialogue remained the most appropriate tool. Yahaya made this disclosure, while declaring the North-East zone constitution review public hearing held in the state. He said, “I’m therefore calling on all disgruntled elements to desist from utterances and actions that are capable of undermining our constitutional order. Instead, all aggrieved parties should embrace dialogue and pursue their legitimate aspirations through their elected representatives at both national and state levels.” Mild drama as Gombe differs on state police But the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice in Gombe State, Zubair Umar, said it would be inconsequential for the state to agitate for state police due to paucity of fund. The commissioner’s comment on the topical issue of establishment of state police generated murmurings from the audience. He said since the current sharing formula favoured the Federal Government, it would be unrealistic for the state to support such clamour, adding that the financial burdens of states made the calls impracticable. According to Zubair, when the relevant adjustments are made, states should earn 60 per cent of the revenue allocation. Sokoto: Judicial autonomy, others top amendment demand In Sokoto State, judicial autonomy, gender equity, restructuring/devolution of power and role for traditional rulers, dominated submissions on the first day at the Sokoto centre of the ongoing proposed constitution amendments holding simultaneously across the six geopolitical zones of Nigerian. Leading the pack of prominent individuals and groups that made presentation at the event was Ahmed Umar, the state NLC Chairman. Umar in his submission averred that, “NLC says yes to labour legislation, minimum wage, and pension on exclusive legislative lists; autonomy for judiciary, state legislatures and local governments.” Declaring open the exercise, the Sokoto State Governor, Aminu Tambuwal, represented by his Deputy, Alhaji Mannir Dan Iya, noted, “In the 22 years of Nigeria’s experience in government by representation, our gains have more than justified our challenges.” Constitution review alone can’t guarantee peace, says Lalong In his remarks, Governor of Plateau State and Chairman of Northern Governors’ Forum, Simon Lalong, declared that it was not how many times Nigeria amended its constitution that would guarantee its unity, development, peace, and good governance, rather, it was how committed Nigerians followed the constitution and obeying its provisions that would make the difference. Lalong, who made the declaration on Wednesday in Jos, Plateau State at the North Central public hearing, said every Nigerians ought to be the guardians and defenders of the constitution. On restructuring, Lalong said the time had come to thoroughly deal with the matter and ensure that the agitations and anxieties being expressed were addressed. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com