Mark Evans the estranged father of British superstar singer, Adele has died of cancer at 57 after years of high-profile disputes and public rows with the singer. Despite their strained relationship, The Irish Sun reports that the multiple award-wining songstress ‘will still be upset by the news of his death.’ Evans walked out on her mother, Penny when Adele was three and returned to his native town, Wales. A source said: “Mark’s family are of course very upset by his passing. He always hoped things would work out with Adele, but it remained acrimonious to the end. He made a few attempts to make things right, but clearly, it had been too long.” But their relationship deteriorated as her international stardom grew, and by 2011 her contact with him had reached the breaking point. When he gave an interview to a magazine that year, her mother Penny told him: “You shouldn’t have done that.” He later claimed that he and his daughter had made up and shared a drink around the time of her Adele Live tour to support her ­second album 21. But she later denied this. In 2013 he revealed he was battling bowel cancer and feared he would never meet his grandson, Angelo — Adele’s son with charity entrepreneur Simon Konecki, who she divorced in March. But Mark went on to claim that her third album, 25, released in 2015, had proved to be a cathartic period in their relationship and that they had patched up their dispute. He even called the feud a “misunderstanding”. However, Adele countered this in a speech at the 2017 Grammy Awards. She told the audience: “Thank you to my manager because the comeback, as it were, was completely masterminded by him. “And you executed it incredibly, and I owe you everything. We’ve been together for ten years, and I love you like you’re my dad. I love you so, so much. I don’t love my dad, that’s the thing. That doesn’t mean a lot. I love you like I would love my dad.” In 2011 Mark admitted to The Sun that his boozing had “made Oliver Reed look like a teetotaller”. He confessed: “I was a rotten father at a time when she really needed me. “I was putting away two litres of vodka and seven or eight pints of Stella every day. I drank like that for three years. God only knows how I survived it.”