NIGERIA’S emerging democracy is facing a direct and unprecedented threat because of the incessant burning of offices of the Independent National Electoral Commission in some parts of the country. A recent tally by The PUNCH shows that at least 24 INEC offices have been destroyed by fire in the last two years, nine of which occurred within the last four months, mostly in the South-East and South-South states. Sadly, however, there has been no news of arrests. This is clearly an indictment of the security agencies that have failed to curb terrorism, kidnapping and banditry in other parts of the country. The serial burning of INEC offices should have provoked proactive intelligence action from the State Security Service to forestall attacks, but the SSS has been caught sleeping on duty. In a trend that has gained predictability, arsonists on Sunday attacked the Anambra State headquarters of INEC, which the commission described as a major blow to its preparations for the governorship election in the state scheduled for November 6, 2021. According to INEC National Commissioner, Festus Okoye, the attackers were systematic and selective in their targets. The pavilion, which serves as a collation centre during significant elections, was burnt down along with two stores housing electoral materials. Generators numbering 376 for all the electoral wards and the extra numbers for back-up which had been recently relocated from all the local government offices to the state headquarters for security reasons were completely burnt. Also, about 50 per cent of the non-sensitive materials required for the governorship election, which had already been delivered to the state, were lost to the fire. Seven utility Toyota Hilux vehicles were also consumed. As INEC has pointedly stated, these attacks pose a direct threat to the 2023 elections and undermine its preparedness for the polls. There is therefore a need for security agencies to be alive to their responsibilities, especially the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, which has the primary objective of safeguarding critical public infrastructure. The NSCDC has failed woefully to live up to its mandate and effectively protect public facilities like INEC offices. Nigeria has been facing a rise in insecurity in the past eight months, which has led to prison breaks and attacks on police stations and military checkpoints. According to the Global Terrorism Index, 1,606 persons were killed in 125 incidents to make Nigeria the world’s third most terrorised country in 2020, while a report by The PUNCH showed that in April 2021 alone, nearly 300 persons were killed by bandits and terrorists nationwide. Indeed, when crimes are committed, the way the authorities respond is what differentiates a failed state from a viable one. The serial attacks on INEC offices are therefore a symptom of the sorry state Nigeria now finds itself and how emboldened criminals have become by the government’s abject failure to arrest the drift. Since INEC has declared a national emergency on the disturbing trend, there is an urgent need for all hands to be on deck. State governments and local governments must assist in protecting INEC offices since those mostly affected are located around LG secretariats. Traditional leaders, as well as civil society and faith-based organisations, should galvanise youths to action. INEC offices should not just be treated as government property, but the very symbol of democracy and an attack on such offices should be seen as such. Politicians must enlighten their supporters on the fact that no matter how they may feel about the conduct of an election, an attack on electoral offices should never be the avenue to seek redress. It is bad enough that Nigeria’s 2019 elections cost over N242 billion with INEC’s component hitting N189 billion. With the current inflation rate and the incessant attacks on electoral offices, which have led to the destruction of sensitive materials like smart card readers, computers, and servers, as well as generators and vehicles, experts argue that activities of these criminals could cost taxpayers extra billions of naira. Such acts of sabotage should no longer be treated with kid gloves. Apart from the violent attacks on INEC offices, the commission’s preparations for the 2023 elections have been hampered by the inexcusable delay in the passage of the bill to amend the Electoral Act. The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), had at various times in 2018 refused to sign the amendment, claiming that it was too close to the 2019 elections. Nearly two years after the inauguration of the Ninth Assembly, however, the bill has not been passed by the legislature despite protests from well-meaning Nigerians. INEC Chairman, Mahmoud Yakubu, argues that the uncertainty surrounding the bill does not allow the commission to properly plan for the 2023 elections, which hold in less than 20 months. The government must make hay while the sun shines. The Electoral Act must be swiftly amended to make room for electronic voting, early voting, and other reforms. The Electoral Offences Commission Bill, which would ensure the swift prosecution of electoral fraudsters, should be signed into law as quickly as possible. Credible elections remain the oxygen of democracy without which it cannot survive. Consequently, urgent steps must be taken to ensure that all threats to the polls are eliminated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com