Representatives of Ile-Ife and Modakeke communities in Osun State, on Monday, allayed fears of a rumoured communal clash, saying there is peace in the two towns. Our correspondent gathered that sporadic gunshots were heard around the Alaro Area of Modakeke in the early hours of Monday. The gunshots heard in the area had caused panic on social media and in the towns that there could be a renewed war among people of Ife and Modakeke. However, the spokesperson for Modakeke Progressive Union, Ven. Debo Babalola, explained that some suspected armed robbers that invaded the area were behind the shootings. Also commenting, the Secretary of Ife Development Board, Lawrence Omidiora, said there is peace in Ife and called on people to stop sharing information creating panic. The PUNCH gathered that there had been tension in the two communities since last Tuesday when a cocoa merchant, Titilayo Gbadegesin, and his son, Reuben, were shot dead by unknown persons at Alapata Village. Babalola, who admitted that the shooting caused panic in the town, however, said there was no clash between Modakeke and Ile-Ife. He urged people to desist from spreading unverified stories, saying engaging in such an act may lead to crises. He said, “What happened today was shootings by armed robbers around Alaro community. People heard gunshots and started to panic because Alaro is not far from Ajebamidele community and where the Resort Centre of Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, is located. “People just heard gunshots and were scared. No clash anywhere and the two communities are in peace. I spoke to Baba Obalufe (next in rank to Ooni), and Sarun, (Ooni’s Chief of Staff) and they told me Ife is in peace too. Those spreading the unfounded news are causing tension.” The Secretary of IDB, Omidiora, who called for restrain and proper investigation before dissemination of information, said, “The manner the killing of last Tuesday in Alapata was hyped caused a tense atmosphere between the two communities.”