The Chief Executive Officer, FYODOR Biotechnologies, Dr Eddy Agbo, has stressed the need for the fight against malaria to be given the same level of intervention given to coronavirus in order to avert avoidable deaths in Nigeria. Agbo stated this while delivering a keynote address during a colliquium organised by the Centre for Malaria Research, Diagnosis, Training and Policy, University of Lagos with the theme, ‘Reaching the Zero Malaria Target.’ He said Nigeria was sitting on a time-bomb if it continued to neglect malaria, which he described as an underreported case in the country, saying other countries had leveraged on technology and increased investment in combatting malaria Agbo said, “We require the same level of urgency and intervention that we had with the COVID-19; we require the same to address malaria because when you look at it, malaria kills way more people. “About 90,000 Nigerians died last year from malaria according to the World Health Organisation and that is a low estimate.” A Consultant Medical Parasitologist and Director, Center for Malaria Research Diagnosis Training and Policy, Prof. Wellington Oyibo, said the government, private sector and individuals should push for malaria funding just like they did for the COVID-19 pandemic, adding that malaria was fast killing children and pregnant women on a daily basis than COVID-19. He said, “COVID-19 test is about N50,000 and malaria test is within N2000 and N5000. Let us put that same level of investment we put into COVID-19 into malaria. The investment is critical in attaining this zero target for malaria and we want to see that reduction.” “Investments such as financial, support for movement of commodities for malaria, as some commodities may not get to their target because there is no logistic funding components. Private groups that do haulage should help provide that services from one place to another; as well as advertisement support to raise the awareness. Malaria disease should be on the front headlines of the media, let us leave politics alone.” Also, the Malaria Programme Manager for Lagos State, Dr Abimbola Oshinowo, lamented the attitude of Nigerians towards preventing malaria. Oshinowo who represented the Lagos State Commission for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, said the quickest and easiest way to ensure that people do not get infected with malaria was through the use of the long lasting insecticide nets and adhering to clean environment as the universal strategies for the prevention of malaria. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com