The General Manager of the Lagos State Parks and Gardens Agency, Mrs Adetoun Popoola, has said the agency will continue to promote healthy living through landscaping, beautification of contaminated sites and the establishment of parks and gardens in the state. Popoola said this during an interactive session with journalists in Ikoyi. According to her, Lagosians have the responsibility to conserve natural resources and protect the ecosystem to support the health and wellbeing of all. She said LASPARK would also continue to promote healthy living through the planting and maintenance of trees across the state to mitigate the effects of climate change. Popoola disclosed that the agency had planted over seven million trees, in addition to establishing about 10 parks and over 200 gardens spread across the five divisions in the state. She said, “We realise that people need to relax; there is a lot of chaos in the land, our lives are very busy and in the midst of all the day-to-day challenges, we need to create time to have fun with friends, families. And our parks are ideal spots for relaxation. “Aside from leisure and recreational purposes, these parks and gardens can also be hired for various social and corporate events. Schools can also have their excursions at these parks,” she added. Speaking on the achievements of LASPARK under the current administration, Popoola said the agency had taken over vacant and contaminated spaces across Lagos and transformed them to become more aesthetically pleasing. Some of the sites, according to her, include Outer Marina, Albati Barracks and Onipan on Ikorodu Road, Alaka in Surulere, Mobolaji Bank Anthony Way and Oba Akinjobi Way GRA, Ikeja, Maternal and Child Centre, Badagry, among others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com