Men of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Kwara State Command, on Saturday, arrested six suspected members of two rival cults by a riverside in Ilorin. The suspects said to belong to the Abata and Aiye confraternities were about to strike at Dada in the Okelele area of Ilorin when the NSCDC operatives swooped on them and arrested them. The suspects are Raheem Jamiu, 18; Abdullahi Azeez, 20; Sulaimon Folawiyo, 18; Saheed Samad, 18; Sanni Samsudeen, 16; and Jamiu Isa, 19. Five of the suspects, according to the NSCDC, are from Kwara State, while Samad is an indigene of Oyo State. PUNCH Metro gathered that the suspected members of the Aye Confraternity were on vengeance mission as two of their colleagues were said to have been injured following a misunderstanding between them and members of the Abata Confraternity during the just concluded Ramadan fasting. The Public Relations Officer of the NSCDC in the state, Babawale Afolabi, who confirmed the arrest of the suspects, said, “It was a serious battle, but only six of them were arrested. “The Operation Harmony and Anti-vandal Squad of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Kwara State Command, swung into action on Saturday, May 15, 2021, around 10am after our intelligence report from our Ilorin South Division indicated that two factions of the Abata and Aiye confraternities would strike at the Dada area of Okelele, Ilorin, Kwara State. “It was a serious battle but only six of them were apprehended. “According to them, the misunderstanding started during the Ramadan fast, when two members of the Aiye group were deeply injured. The Abata group decided to strike back. They met very close to the river in that area. Some of the tools used were axes, cutlasses and knives. “Saheed Samad and Sanni Samsudeen were seriously wounded.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com