The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) has asked members of the international community to support Chad as it transits from military to democratic government in the allotted period of 18 months. He said this on Tuesday in Abuja at the opening of the Extraordinary Summit of Heads of State and Government of the Lake Chad Basin Commission organised to deliberate on the recent developments in Chad following the death of its former President, Idris Itno. Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, disclosed this in a statement titled ‘President Buhari calls on international community to support peaceful transition n Chad.’ According to the statement, Buhari, who also serves as Chair of leaders of LCBC member-countries, declared the one-day summit open with an appeal to members of the international community, especially France, the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, the Netherlands, and Russia; the United Nations, the African Union and the European Union to support Chad’s Transition Military Council led by General Mahamat Deby. Buhari said, ‘‘The need to support the Chadian government to effectively carry out its planned 18-month transition is sacrosanct. ‘‘However, it must be stated that the sanctity of the Chadian constitution as the supreme guiding document defining the social contract in the country must be respected. ‘‘The transition period should be civilian-led, with requisite powers given to the constitutionally mandated organs of government saddled with the responsibility of administering the country.” The President also called on fellow African leaders to persevere and not give in to forces who want to destabilize the region. ‘‘We must reinvigorate our collective will and commitment towards eradicating terrorism and entrenching democratic rule and good governance in Chad and our region. ‘‘We must remain focused and true to ensuring sustainable development of the region.’’ He also used the opportunity to eulogise and honour the late Chadian leader and other officers who have paid the supreme sacrifice in the line of duty. At his request, the summit observed a minute silence for the departed leader.