AN aide to the EKITI State Governor, Segun Dipe, and the state chapter of the All Progressives Congress, on Thursday, took issue with the National Chairman of the South-West Agenda for 2023, Senator Dayo Adeyeye, over his allegations against the governor. Adeyeye had accused Fayemi of moving against the interests of the APC over the sack of the party’s Caretaker Committee Chairman of Ado Ward 8, Clement Afolabi, for his alleged affiliation with SWAGA, a pro-Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu group. He had accused the governor of plotting to decimate the APC ahead of 2023. Dipe, who is Fayemi’s Senior Special Assistant on Public Communication, said Adeyeye was unfair to his principal. Dipe, in a statement titled: ‘Adeyeye got it wrong’, queried, “How could Adeyeye, whose antecedents are well known, accuse Fayemi, one of the most brilliant, most reliable and courtly leaders within the APC as a party and Nigeria as a country today of being anti-party? “We won’t blame him (Adeyeye) though, we can only regard him as an out-of-favour, narrow-minded and self-serving politician who is looking for a platform, real or imagined, to re-launch himself. “Also, we consider referring to himself as SWAGA Chairman within the APC as a misnomer. Perhaps, Adeyeye needs to be reminded that the APC has since made pronouncements against setting up groups within the party. “One then wonders from where Adeyeye and his co-travellers derive their power to float another group within the APC, which they are calling APC members to start porting to. If this is not an anti-party move, then we wonder what it is.” Also, the Ekiti State APC chairman, Paul Omotosho, in a statement titled, “No Division in Ekiti APC – Omotosho,” signed by APC State Director of Publicity, Sam Oluwalana, said the party was “one big family.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com