The Nestle Group has joined other business leaders across the food industry to support ambitious action by the European Union to increase supply chain transparency and traceability for commodities that may be linked to deforestation on Tuesday. In the joint statement signed by 11 companies, including Nestle Zone Emena, Carrefour Group, Tesco Plc, J Sainsbury Plc called for strong EU actions in eliminating imported deforestation, starting with traceability when entering the EU internal market. The statement asked that the EU should put in place measures to scale up the use of innovative technologies to improve supply chain traceability as well as stronger cooperation with producing countries to ensure that forests are protected and restored. It said, “Businesses like ours need a clear legal framework that puts all companies on a level playing field, gives all supply chain actors incentives to address risks of deforestation, collectively fosters transparency, provides a realistic timeline for implementation and works to support farmers and their communities. “To this end, we ask the commission to explore the strengthened use of the innovative technology such as satellite monitoring. “Indeed, information related to the origin of the products, when entering in the union’s internal market, should be made available by leveraging techniques such as GPS coordinates for these commodities.” Nestle added that it would continue to work with all stakeholders and share its leading experience in supply chain transparency, traceability, and implementing its forest positive strategy. It emphasised that European Commission and member states should strengthen their cooperation with producing countries through technical assistance; exchange of information; trade and other incentives; and good practices in the preservation, conservation, and sustainable use of forests. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com