A public health physician, Dr Shallom Oni, has advised Nigerians with over weeks’ cough to seek medical attention. Oni, at the unveiling of Herbacough cough syrup made by Dexa Medica, in Lagos said more awareness was needed for people to know when to stop using medication and when they should visit the hospital for a test. “It is important that people are enlightened so that they won’t just keep on loading themselves with cough syrups for two or three weeks. Every Nigerian is advised to visit a doctor for a proper check if they have a prolonged cough. You’ve been taking cough syrup and other medication and you are not getting relived, and the cough seems to be recurring, you need to see a doctor if it persists so that you can be screened. This is vital to ensure that it is not a cough that has to do with some other chronic illnesses. “There is the need to raise the awareness on this so that people will not just be using cough syrups for the wrong ailment. The government is trying on the tuberculosis awareness, the private sector must join in enlightening the people on the need to present early in hospitals,” he said. The firm’s Country Manager, Nigeria and West Africa, Dhanang Anggoro, said the herbal syrup was an improvement from other brands existing in the country. He said, “Currently, there are many herbal and chemical cough medicines that have been provided in the market. However, the many types of cough medicine make it difficult for people to find what cough medicine to consume.” “Another problem that causes consumers to worry about choosing cough medicine is that they often have difficulty recognising the type of cough they have. Herbacough is processed with an extraction process to find a specific fraction in the form of reconyl active substance. “Aside from having a good taste, the cough syrup also works to suppress coughs, as an anti-inflammatory and it also relieves the respiratory tract.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com