The Archbishop of the African Church, Lagos Province, Most Rev Julius Oludotun, has called on the federal and state governments to make concerted efforts towards tackling the rise in insecurity. Oludotun spoke at a press conference held at the African Church Saviour’s Cathedral, Agege Diocese to commemorate the third biennial congress and the fifth founder’s day anniversary of the Lagos Province with the theme ‘He is able.’ According to a statement, the cleric raised the alarm over the increasing rate of abductions that had overwhelmed the security apparatus of the country. He said, “The government should tighten the security apparatus of the nation and we, the citizens, should obey simple instructions. We appeal to the federal and state governments that they should accord security the importance it deserves, because all of us know we are not safe, especially the Church. “I won’t deceive you, they are after the church but we know, as christians, we don’t fight. If there is any problem, we pray to God. “The (South-West) states have a group called Amotekun. In some states now, they have already defeated the bandits, so the Federal Government should do more on security, especially because they are after the Church now.” Oludotun urged the nation to move closer to God in order to enjoy peace. “We, as Christians, need to turn back to God. We are equally guilty of some of the sins committed. Our God is able to deliver us from every challenge and unpalatable situation we may be going through now. We know, with God, all things are possible. Nigeria needs prayer at this crucial time. By the grace of God, peace will come back to Nigeria,” he said. The cleric noted that the congress would include a diocesan concert involving “all our churches in the province, followed by a special prayer for the state, Nigeria and for the Church,” as well as the “archbishop’s charge and other series of programmes.” He added that the church was adhering strictly to COVID-19 protocols. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com