The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has said the multiple challenges facing Nigeria are surmountable if the citizens come together. He said this on Wednesday in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, to mark the celebration of the Eid-el-Fitr. The statement titled titled, ‘On the occasion of Eid, President Buhari calls for unity and solidarity.’ Reads partly, “On this blessed occasion, I wish that the Eid festival brings with it peace, safety, security, brotherhood and love amongst all. “Unity and solidarity among all citizens, Muslims and Christians are imperative especially at a time when our country is faced with multiple challenges which are surmountable only when we come together as one.” The President also called for prayers against “the tragic incidents of kidnapping and banditry and the desperate quest for political power expressed through blackmail against the existence of our country as a united entity.” Similarly, the President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, in his statement said Nigeria needed the “prayers of every patriot now more than ever before to achieve the peace, unity and progress that were the dreams of the founding fathers.” He added, “I assure us that the Government, including the National Assembly, will not waver in its determination to provide robust security in the country that guarantees every law abiding citizen the liberty to live in peace and pursue their legitimate businesses anywhere they choose.” Also, the governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, charged Muslim faithful to remain steadfast and continue to pray for peace and unity of the country, noting that development and growth can only take place when the people were united. The governor, added, “The Holy month of Ramadan is an opportunity for our Muslim brothers and sisters to deepen their relationship with Allah. I urge you to use the season as a period to reflect on our individual and collective roles in promoting and sustaining love, peace and harmony in the country.” Likewise, the Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, advised the Muslims to pray and work for the unity of Nigeria. Abdulrazaq in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Rafiu Ajakaye, said, “Going forward, and in the spirit of the holy month we have just exited, I implore everyone to continue to pray and work for peace and tranquillity in our country and our state, while the government and citizens play their respective roles to build a better society.” Also, the Ondo State Governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Richard Olatunde, on Wednesday, said, “We must pray for Nigeria and our state; the problem of banditry, kidnappings and other activities of criminal elements must be brought to an end. It is time to seek God’s face on the issue of insecurity that ravage our nation.” While reiterating his commitment to promoting peaceful co-existence, the governor urged all Muslims in the state to continue to sustain the values of Ramadan even after the holy month. In the same vein, the Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, urged all Muslim faithful to ensure that Ramadan lessons and their act of devotions remained a consistent way of life after the 30-days exercise The governor in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Muhammed Onogwu, also harped on the gains of peaceful coexistence and national integration, noting that Nigeria’s greater achievements as a nation was citizens being united and not allowing ethnic, religion and political party affiliations divide them. In addition, the Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Yinka Oyebode, urged Muslims in the state to celebrate in moderation and also “use the period to make supplications for Nigeria to overcome its social, political, economic and security challenges.” The governor also enjoined the people of the state irrespective of their religious affiliations to live together in peace and harmony as they were all created by God to fulfil His purpose. Also, Governor Aminu Masari of Katsina State urged the media in the country to be more circumspect in the discharge of their responsibility. In a statement his Director General (Media), Abdu Labaran,  the governor said given the dire security challenges confronting Nigeria, there was need for the media to be more focused, patriotic and circumspect in the way and manner they discharge their responsibilities. Also, the Cross River State Governor, Prof. Ben Ayade, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Christian  Ita, said, “I enjoin muslim Ummah and indeed all Nigerians to employ a selfless approach in our dealings irrespective of religious, political or tribal affiliations and remain content with what we have.” In the same vein, the Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, in his Sallah message said, “Let’s not forget the underprivileged in society. We should reach out to them and make them share in the joy and happiness that come with the festival.” Likewise, the Minister of Defence, Maj. Gen. Bashir Magashi (retd.), in a statement by his Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mohammad Abdulkadri, said, ‘’I appeal to Muslims on this special occasion to patriotically include peace in Nigeria their prayer points at individual, family and community levels. “Prayers and unrelenting efforts of troops will ensure  that adversaries in all theatres of tperations are decimated.” Additionally, a former presidential candidate of the People’s Trust in the 2019 elections, Mr Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim, on Wednesday in his Eid-el-Fitr message said, “We need peace more than ever before. This period should be for the cleansing of our inner souls and collective prayer for the good and well being of our country.” In like manner, the National Leader of the All Progressive Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, urged Nigerians to put politics aside and pray for Buhari for strength and wisdom to protect the nation. Tinubu in his Eid-El-Fitr message added, “Now that the holy month of Ramadan is ending, we must counsel ourselves not to forget its great lessons. We must be better than we were before. We must treat each other with more compassion and understanding. “Let us remember President Muhammadu Buhari and his government in our prayers that they may be given the requisite strength and wisdom to protect the nation, defeat the challenges that confront us and help establish Nigeria as a more prosperous and just land.” Police demand Katsina residents’ prayers against banditry, others Also, the The Katsina State Police Command on Wednesday urged residents to pray for an end to banditry and other crimes in the state. A statement by the command’s spokesman, SP Gambo Isah read, “The Katsina State Police Command under the leadership of CP Sanusi Buba… has put in place adequate security arrangements to ensure hitch free celebrations, notwithstanding that the celebrations will be low-keyed due to the suspension of Hawan Sallah by Katsina and Daura emirates. Isah added, “The command requests you use this period to pray for the intervention of the Almighty Allah to bring banditry and other forms of crime and criminality bedevilling the state to its barest minimum.” Globacom hails Muslims Meanwhile, Nigeria’s telecommunications firm, Globacom, has congratulated Muslims across the country following the conclusion of the Ramadan fast. In a statement the company said, “The successful completion of the Ramadan fast was a sign of faith, steadfastness and resilience by our Muslim citizens. Globacom therefore wishes every one of them, a very happy Eid el-Fitr and hopes that the Almighty Allah will grant their prayers for peace and progress.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com