The Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has promised to introduce 500 small new buses to the state by next week Thursday in a bid to provide alternatives to local motorcycles. The Governor said this in a speech on Wednesday to mark the opening ceremony of the Lagos Architect Forum. The forum themed, ‘The City of Lagos: The Next Twenty Five Years’ was organised by the Nigerian Institute of Architects, Lagos chapter, at the Expo Hall of Eko Hotel and Suites, Victoria Island. The 4-day forum which will run till Saturday had in attendance other dignitaries including the Oniru of Iru Land, HRM Oba Abdulwasiu Omogbolahan Lawal; the Lagos State Chairman of the NIA, Arc. David Majekodunmi; SA to the Governor on Works and Infrastructure, Engr. Aramide Adeyoye; and the President-elect of the Nigerian Institute of Architects, Arc. Enyi Ben-Eboh. In his speech, the governor noted the progress made in the T.H.E.M.E.S agenda and his vision for the Lagos master plan to ensure that Lagos becomes ‘Africa’s model megacity’ by 2050. Acknowledging the challenges in the transport sector, the Governor gave assurances on improving the various modes of transport including the roads, waterways and rail lines. “For the waterways, we’re currently building 16 jetties and terminals. About seven of them should be ready before the end of the year; we have some that are already currently being used. “All of them will not look as nice as the one at Falomo, but we want all of them to be comfortable. We have a fleet of almost 20 boats now each carrying at 50, 60, 40 passengers. We want people to use the waterways which is why we’re investing in them,” Sanwo-Olu said. On road and rail transport, Sanwo-Olu said the state would soon begin to operate 100 new high-capacity buses, with plans to launch 500 LASTMA small buses by next week Wednesday or Thursday as alternatives to okadas that don’t have enough passenger space. He also promised that one of either the blue or red rail lines will become operational by next year. Oba Lawal in his remarks, enjoined city designers to consider factors that would improve the resilience of Lagos and fight climate change. He committed to transforming Oniru into an urban green lung, pointing out that planting one tree can have the effect of removing 11,000 miles worth of carbon dioxide emissions from cars. He also promised to complete work on an urban park in Oniru as a way of contributing positively towards the environment. The Chairman of the Lagos chapter of the NIA, Arc. David Majekodunmi, spoke on the need for advocacy in sensitizing stakeholders towards building a sustainable city ahead of the next 25 years. “I hope that we would have succeeded in achieving our advocacy role in sensitizing the various stakeholders in the built environment on steps and implementation strategies in achieving not just a mega-city, but a sustainable, resilient, eco-friendly, and liveable mega-city that is also an international cultural metropolis,” Majekodunmi said.