Leader of Yoruba socio-political group, Afenifere, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, says the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has lost control of the country’s leadership, adding that nobody needs to pass a vote of no confidence in him before the whole world knows that he has failed Nigerians. READ ALSO: Govt watches helplessly as bandits hold sway –MBF The 93-year-old Afenifere leader stated this in an exclusive interview with The PUNCH on Tuesday. He was reacting to claims by presidential spokesman, Femi Adesina, that disruptive elements were recruiting ethnic groups and politicians with the motive of convening conferences where a vote of no confidence will be passed in the President. Adesina in a statement on Tuesday had also said the purpose of the move was to further throw the country into turmoil. But speaking with The PUNCH on Tuesday evening, the nonagenarian Afenifere leader said the President already failed and there was no need for any group to gather anywhere to pass a vote of no confidence in him. Adebanjo, who described the 1999 Constitution as a fraud, also urged the President to, as a matter of urgency, return the country’s constitution to the 1964 Constitution agreed on by the founding fathers of Nigeria including the late Sir Ahmadu Bello, Sir Obafemi Awolowo and Sir Nnamdi Azikwe. He said, “Who is interested in passing vote of no confidence in Buhari? Who has confidence in Buhari before let alone pass any vote of no confidence in him. That is not the issue. The main thing is to restructure the country back to federalism and forget all these gossips by Adesina. We don’t have to pass a vote of no confidence for the world to know we don’t have any confidence in Buhari.” “I don’t know of any group who wants to take over the government but I know those of us who want the country to be restructured in a peaceful manner. “Those of us in Afenifere and all other groups in the South who are agitating for restructuring are the friends of Nigeria, are the friends of Buhari. I hope it is not too late for Buhari to realise this,” he added.