Livestock Feeds Plc, a subsidiary of UAC Nigeria, has established a smallholding poultry farm for Sango Senior Secondary School, Agege, Lagos State, as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility. The objective of the initiative, according to the company, is to support the educational sector in Nigeria with a key focus on bridging theory and practical teachings of the agricultural science subject in secondary schools. It said in a statement, “This initiative aims to equip students with the basic skills, management techniques and agribusiness proficiency involved in rearing poultry in animal production as well as prepare them for further studies and future occupation in agriculture. “Also, through this CSR initiative, Livestock Feeds aims to achieve one of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals with particular focus on Agriculture which seeks sustainable solutions to end hunger in all its forms by 2030 and to achieve food security.” The Managing Director, Livestock Feeds, Adegoyega Adedeji, at the inauguration of the project on Monday, described the teaching of agricultural science practical in schools as very pivotal in the Nigerian educational system to equip students with the basic skills required. “Livestock Feeds Plc CSR initiatives are anchored on the pillars of Education, Sustainable environment, and Infrastructure. As an organization, our continuous commitment is to remain socially responsible to the communities in which we operate,” he said. The Sales and Marketing Manager, Foluso Alabi, said the poultry farm would equally serve as a mini-research base for the school, government and students. “It will provide an opportunity for the students to practically experiment with agricultural science in a real sense,” Alabi added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com