Residents of Otto-Ilogbo and Otumara communities of the Lagos Mainland Local Government Area say they are afraid of an imminent massive demolition of structures in the slum areas following moves by the state government to develop the neighbourhood into a modern urban setting. The Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr Idris Salako, had recently said that the state government planned to regenerate Otto and Otumara slum communities in line with the development agenda of the state. Salako stated that “the micro city” would be delivered with the upgrade of existing socio-economic amenities such as hospitals/clinics, schools, markets, water among others. However, the residents said they were not involved in the plan and feared that the government might demolish their houses at any time. In a petition dated May 10, 2021 and addressed to Salako on behalf of the dwellers, a civil society group, Spaces for Change, urged the government to put human face to the proposed regeneration. The petition read in part, “We are the legal representatives of the residents of Otto-Ilogbo and Otumara communities of the Lagos Mainland Local Government Area of Lagos State (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Community’) on whose behalf and instructions we write this letter. “We have seen the recent public notice of your ministry, published on the state government’s website on the May 7, 2021, announcing that the Governor of the State, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu has given approval for the regeneration of Otto and Otumara communities in accordance with the T.H.E.M.E.S. agenda in order to create a micro city with better urban aesthetics and vibrancy. “While this regeneration plan is laudable and timely, the target communities fear that gentrification, demolition and displacement are usually occasioned by this kind of development. The communities are however ready to support this laudable initiative with the hope that it will lead to major improvements in their social, economic and living conditions. “In light of the above, we are requesting for a chance collaborate with your office on the execution of the commendable project particularly in ensuring that the constitutionally guaranteed rights of the dwellers in these communities are not breached while also taking the intention of this distinct administration beyond making Lagos into a mega city to making Lagos into a just city.” The group requested a meeting with the commissioner and other stakeholders concerned with the regeneration project. Also, one of the leaders in the communities, Musbau Agbodemu, explained that the project plan came as a surprise and created panic among residents, saying that there was no prior notice to any of the seven registered community development associations in the area. He said, “As one of the residents, a CDA chairman and a rights activist, we always welcome rural and urban development and slum upgrade but it must be a people-oriented and community-inclusive project. “On this note, we continue to appeal and call on the government to recognise and carry the communities along to avoid public outcry that can be caused by rendering over one million residents homeless and vulnerable.” But the state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Gbenga Omotoso, said the residents would be engaged and duly notified of demolition. He said, “Nobody is going to get his abode demolished without any notice. The usual thing is that whenever the government demolishes a house, if it is a house that has papers, they pay compensation. “There are places that will be regenerated and the original owners will be given part of the place to return to but the problem is that many people build without having papers.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com