What was growing up like for you. I come from a very humble family. My parents, thankfully, are still alive. My father is 86 and my mother is 79. They are both in Ikot Ekpene, Akwa Ibom. My father came to Lagos at age 20; he spent 60 years of his life in Lagos. He met my mum in Lagos and they had me. I am the first of their four children – three boys and a girl. One thing I’d like to establish here is that we all are married from different parts of the country. My wife is from Edo State, my brothers’ are from Osun and Imo states, and my sister’s husband is from Akwa Ibom. My dad and I used to joke that he has donated his children to the nation.  This tells you that we are detribalised. My parents had a great deal of influence on my life as a child. I lived in Surulere up to age 10. You have worked with great brands like Coca-Cola, Samsung and Guinness. Would you say your background really prepared you for this? I attended St. Mary’s Catholic School, and St. Catherine’s Model School, all in Lagos. I moved to Baptist Academy and I spent five years there. I had my West African Senior School Certificate Examination at age 15 and moved on to do my A’ Levels at the Federal School of Arts and Science, Ondo. I was a bit of a rascal at that time, all thanks to Ben Murray Bruce’s Silverbird Cinema. At the end of my examinations in FSAS, Ondo, I failed a paper – Government – so I could not gain admission to study the course I would have loved to study. When I returned home, my dad, being a highly disciplined and success-oriented person, was not pleased with me. In order to prove to myself and my father that I was not a failure, my friend and I had to go to the Ministry of Education to apply to go back for the A’ Levels. In between, I got a job. I worked for nine months as a civil servant with the Ministry of Defence, as a Level 6 clerk through the help of my aunt, who told me about the opening. We were paid N178 a month. This was the period of Gen. (Ibrahim) Babangida. This was not my father’s wish; he wanted me to go to school as the first child, but I took it upon myself to earn my own money, so I could see myself through school. I went back to do my A’ Levels at the Federal Government Academy, Suleja. I paid my fees and sorted out my accommodation independently. I was shocked when, one day, my friend came to tell me my dad was at the school gate, wanting to see me. It was a surprise, but he indeed came that day to see me. I advanced towards my hometown, when I heard that the University of Cross River was beginning to admit students for Economics. I applied but instead of Economics, I was given Religious Studies. I went to the office of the Head of Department of Economics one day, and told him about my dream of studying Economics. He pondered over it for a while and then agreed to give me a chance if only I passed Mathematics. I not only did that, but I was also on the honours roll for three years; I escaped making a first class by a whisker. When I got my result, I took a night bus to show my dad. He was so pleased with me and we gave all glory to God. I did my youth service in Port Harcourt. Nigerian Breweries was recruiting, I applied but my application was not complete. Coincidentally, Mr Otu Umoren, my best friend at the time, was the Personnel Manager. He called me to tell me that I was ineligible to get the position, because of my incomplete application. I didn’t get the job despite having my best friend at the helm of affairs. There is one thing that young people should learn from that. My friend was disciplined enough not to cut corners for me to get into Nigerian Breweries. So, when the opportunity for Guinness came, I was careful enough to get all my documents in, and I was employed as a management trainee at Guinness. Your profile says you are fondly called ‘Trustee of posterity’. How did that appellation come about and what does it mean? I did not call myself that, but the first time I heard it was first from my father in the faith, Pastor (Tunde) Bakare. He took us through a series (of classes) many years ago. This (Trustee of Posterity) means that I am one with something kept for the future. If you look at my life and my journey, you can mirror it from there. You can also mirror it from the people that I’ve built. You’ve worked across different big firms at top management levels. What determined for you when to leave each time you did? I started out at Guinness and I worked there for eight years. I moved from Guinness to the Coca-Cola; I spent 11 years there. These 18 years baked the solid foundation for my professional career. When Cadbury had issues with finance and strategy, I was called upon to revamp the system. I came into Cadbury as commercial director in 2007. I spent three years there, leading the commercial team – sales, marketing and operations – and we moved the company from near-crumbling to where it is now. Then it was time for me to go. I moved over to Samsung Technologies as Managing Director. I led the team to change the dynamics of the business. Samsung was a clear case for me of how things can turn around with strategic planning. In 18 months, Samsung was leading the market. I met a team of 20 people, but by the time I left, the team was over 120 people. I spent two years there. My values and theirs were always clashing. I walked out of that building that fateful day in 2012 and I’ve never walked into that building ever since. This still points back to discipline. It is my tradition. I say this with every sense of humility and glory to God, that I’ve never had any issue in all my places of employment. After that, L’Oriel Group came calling. I was Managing Director, West Africa, in charge of Ghana and Nigeria. In 2015, I resigned and came back home to open Corporate Shepherds. What is the key advice you give to your mentees? We need to have the mentality of a farmer. We can build this nation. Let us stop condemning one another. You published a book, In the Grip of Grace. Tell us about the thrust of the book. The title of my book is: In the Grip of Grace. In the Grip of Grace is an autobiography. This book encapsulates everything that I had to go through in life. It has been really God’s grace and not by my strength. When I left Samsung, I took one year off, went to the National Bureau of Statistics, where I was invited to always give a talk. I wrote this book because I am very driven about legacy. How else can I drop my legacy if not in writing? This book is long overdue. My greatest motivation in writing this book is to influence a generation to see that if I can make it, they also can. From some of your engagements, you sound very passionate about a Nigeria that works. Will you consider running for a public office? I’m not aiming for a political office. It has never been in my plan, to be honest, but I’m open to service. Well, the truth is that no nation can ever be successful without the people. I am one person who has consistently maintained that our greatest assets are our people, and until we harness the potential of this asset, we will not get anything out of it. The government should put a priority on the people. Where Nigeria is today, we have a lot of great things happening for us, but unfortunately, we are not able to harness these things to our favour. We are quick to talk about our population; population is just a number. The question before us now is, “How productive is that number?” Productivity is what drives efficiency and effectiveness. One person generates one, another person generates one; when they come together, they multiply. This multiplication effect is what drives the whole spectrum. The biggest part of our problem, which we must agree on, is discipline. Until Nigerians become disciplined in thoughts and acts, there is no moving forward for the country. Disciplined actions will produce a people who have a sense of duty. All these have to start from the family. Parents need to do more with teaching and training the next generation. Unfortunately, Nigerians have lost the sense of values. Discipline is the anchor that will make a lot of things change. When we have disciplined people, you will see productivity. You cannot say that Nigerians are a disciplined people, but when they step out of this shores of the nation, they conform to those working standards. This points to consequence management. There should be a process of nurturing. Every living thing is created to grow, but if it is not growing, then, there’s a problem. So, we need to ask the questions: “Are we truly growing?” and “In what ways are we growing?” because not every growth is good. For cancer or tumor growths, people pay huge sums and risk their lives for them to be taken out. Discipline is a currency that we, as Nigerians, need to bring back. You left the corporate world and started your own company. Would you say the Nigerian environment is friendly to entrepreneurs? Well, it is a function of the individual’s lenses. We have different visions. What we see are different. Some see problems, challenges; others see opportunities. It is all a function of what you see. There is no one-size-fits-all. I always counsel young people that business is not for everybody. Some things are innate. A child may begin to portray skills of business from around age seven. But if we want to be brutally honest, you will tell yourself that nothing is working. Ask yourself who fills up those business class seats on the planes and the rooms in the hotel. What a lot of people have not done is identify a purpose. Most people are working in ignorance. I am not getting a salary, but I have an inner peace. Being an entrepreneur is a spirit; you must have it. You must be ready to learn, know and serve, so you can create value. If you jump into entrepreneurship, because of your greed, you will be disappointed. Is the environment friendly? No. Officers of the Federal Inland Revenue Service were here recently to audit me, and they were surprised how the company is keeping afloat. So, you can call me an entrepreneur, but what I really am is a farmer. The environment is harsh, there’s no ease of doing business, and most of the things the government is saying they are doing are lies; why this is so is because of the people. What gap was your company, Corporate Shepherds Limited, created to fill? Corporate Shepherds started in 2009. It is a vision that God gave me in 2003, to mentor a generation, teaching, guiding and motivating them. God used my corporate experiences to build me for the place I am now. Shortly after this, I started going to universities with my wife to teach and speak to young people about life. 2008 was a turning point for me, and in January, 2009, we registered Corporate Shepherds. We had a small office in Amore; people still located me to mentor and guide them through their lives, which is fulfilling. I started a radio programme – Navigate with Idy – in 2009 on Radio Continental. I expanded to Inspiration FM, Uyo, Beat FM, Classic FM and Inspiration, Ibadan and Abuja, with over two million listeners. I enjoy doing what I love doing.  I started afresh, from the scratch. So, when you ask me about nation building, I know what it is about. What would you consider your biggest achievement so far? I have seen a lot of my mentees grow to become solid men and women, and to me, that is my greatest fulfillment. Today, I have several young people on my scholarship scheme. I am grateful that I married the woman I married. She is a fantastic partner. Few of my security employees are graduates now.  The one that just left got admitted to Benue State University, Markurdi. This is all geared towards shepherding, which is the nature of the call God has made on me. What will you say to a lot of young Nigerians who are losing faith in the country and fleeing abroad? The grass is not always greener on the other side. Nigeria is one of the most boisterous places to stay. When you go to another man’s country, you are a stranger. That’s the truth. How do you relax? I am very good at badminton. I was a NUGA (Nigerian University Games Association) and faculty athlete at my school. I love table tennis and lawn tennis. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com