As the world evolves on the path of global inclusion and togetherness, the sustainability of this accomplishment rests on the back of the achievement of cultural tolerance. The impact of cultural inclusion on the social growth, economy and several aspects of different nations is now more than ever prominent. Tolerance is deeply rooted in the fabric of the culture, heritage and traditions of the United Arab Emirates, a society that derives its priorities from a combination of its Islamic religion, centuries-old authentic Arab customs, as well as the teachings and wisdom of the nation’s blessed founding father, Sheikh Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, consolidating the pillars of goodness on which the country was established. The UAE has become a beacon of light and a leading cultural centre, through its many initiatives that aim to build bridges for uniting people from different nationalities living in the country and by removing the cultural barriers related to customs and traditions between the Emirati citizens, residents and foreign visitors.  These are proved by our numerous initiatives, both locally and internationally. Notably, our country distributed pandemic reliefs of more than 1,789 tons of medical supplies to 117 countries worldwide, Nigeria inclusive. Through a successful bilateral diplomatic relationship between the UAE and Nigeria, The Consulate General of the UAE has been able to reflect some of the core principles of the seven pillars of tolerance established by the UAE. In collaboration with several foundations in the UAE, we have been able to provide succour to several people within our reach. During one of our most recent initiatives, the Consulate was able to distribute back-to-school packages to over 2,000 families, who were adversely affected by the impact of the pandemic. Each back-to-school package was enveloped with several sanitary items and day-to-day needed school items. The disbursement of these packages spread over three states within South-West Nigeria, which covered beneficiaries of different backgrounds. Besides, the UAE through its actions globally has given credence to the notion of tolerance and that we must bring to nought the cultural barriers that we have battled for years. H.E. Abdulla Almandoos, The Consul General of the UAE in Lagos Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com