Some Nigerians on social media have expressed mixed reactions as the House of Representatives is considering the discontinuation of the National Youth Service Corps scheme. The PUNCH had earlier reported that the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria Alteration Bill, 2020, which is seeking to repeal the NYSC Act, is billed for the second reading. The consideration evoked different reactions from Nigerians on social media; while some agreed to the discontinuation of NYSC, others pushed for the continuation of the scheme. A tweep, @aselugeemain, said, “Let them scrap it and send every graduate on a one month orientation camp where they’ll be taught self defense and economics. At the end, accumulate their one year stipend and pay them as a startup fund.” Another tweep, @dayus85, pointed out, “Instead of scrapping, it should be a compulsory one year program where graduates learn different skills like photography, editing, fashion designing, computer works and so on.” In agreement, @adejumodavid12 tweeted, “It should be replaced with compulsory skills acquisition programs with funding afterwards. Imagine a workshop where graduates are subjected to rigorous teaching in areas of agriculture, fintech, e-commerce, tech etc.” “Not just about scrapping it. Provide more jobs for graduates or give every graduate at least one million naira each or more depending on their result,” @__Chinwe suggested. @alganiy01, who wants the NYSC scheme to continue, tweeted, “NYSC remains one of the platforms that brings people from different cultures in Nigeria together. For instance, I never knew how lovable the Hausas could be until my service year.” @pret_zel_ stated that the scrapping of the NYSC is “not a good idea, though welfare needs to greatly improve. Without NYSC, millions of kids in impoverished areas would go without education and health centers in rural communities would be without doctors.” According to @David_Eboh5, the scrapping is “another demolition of the youths’ institution” as the NYSC is what “every eligible graduate looks forward to.” “Scrap NYSC? So new graduates wouldn’t receive their own stipends?,” @richieprincey asked, while stating that the scheme should be reformed and not scrapped. For @erikuzee, if the government wants to scrap the system, “the government should come up with a package for every graduating student because I know that they (the government) are also trying to avoid the budget for the scheme since the country is broke.” @ayotola123 tweeted, “You don’t want to imagine the rate of unemployment if NYSC is scrapped.”