The  Ogun State Police Command, on Tuesday, said it swiftly took charge of the farm, where a 400-level student of the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta, Toyinbo Olayinka, the owner of the farm, Dominic; and a 17-year-old Togolese girl, were abducted to stop its sale to raise the N150m ransom demanded by the kidnappers. The kidnappers had reportedly demanded N150m before they could release the victims, who were abducted on Saturday. The victims, who were picked up from a private farm at Abule Itoko in the Odeda Local Government Area of the state, were released on Monday. The police said the kidnappers instructed the owner to sell off the farm and use the proceeds to pay the ransom. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this to our correspondent while confirming the release of the student and the two other victims. Oyeyemi said they were released on Monday night after the police blocked the sale of the farm. He stated, “Yes, he (Olayinka) was rescued last night (Monday). We had to take possession of the farm when we got a hint that the kidnappers had asked the owner to sell it to raise the ransom. “We did not allow that to happen. We ensured the victims’ release. We will go after the kidnappers and ensure that they are apprehended.” When asked if an official of the Tai Solarin University of Education, who was abducted last week Thursday, had been released, Oyeyemi said the police were on the case. “We are on it. We will soon rescue her,” he stated. Also confirming the Olayinka’s release, the Head, Directorate of Public Relations, FUNAAB, Kola Adepoju, said, “He (Olayinka) was released by his abductors unharmed and he is safe and sound. “His release has thrown the entire university community, the students in particular, who staged a peaceful protest yesterday (Monday), into jubilation. “Details of his release are still sketchy and are in the purview of the Ogun State Police Command. “The management of the university, on behalf of the entire academic community, is deeply grateful to security agencies, both conventional and unconventional, especially the Ogun State Police Command, the media, traditional rulers, other stakeholders and the public in general for their concern and efforts, which culminated in the freedom of our student.” Meanwhile, John Oyeleye, the uncle of the student, said Olayinka was tortured by his abductors. Oyeleye disclosed this when he visited FUNAAB after his nephew’s release. Oyeleye, who addressed the Vice-Chancellor, Prof Kolawole Salako, members of his management team and some student leaders, said the victim’s father could not come due to old age, but sent his appreciation to the university management and the students at large. He stated that the family was making plans to take Olayinka for treatment. “We thank God that everything went well; our student came out safe and sound,” Salako, who reiterated the commitment of his administration to students welfare, said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com