The Chairman of Green Energy International Ltd, Operator of Otakikpo Marginal Field in OML 11, Prof Anthony Adegbulugbe was honored with the Excellent Leadership Award by the Citizenship & Leadership Training Center (CLTC), a parastatal in the Federal Ministry of Youth & Sports Development in Abuja on May 20, 2021.  The center is principally a human development institution established for the training and molding of Nigerian Citizenry to become responsible and respectable citizens and leaders. Conveying the decision of the centre to honor the distinguished Professor of Energy Economics and Planning, the Director General of the Training Center, Mr. Jonah B. Bawa, said “Adegbulugbe is being honored alongside the Chief Sunday Dare, the Honorable Minister of Youth and Sports, Bar. Solomon Dalung, the ex-Minister of Youths and Sports and Mr. Boni Haruna, the ex-Governor of Adamawa State.  The excellence award is being conferred on the distinguished personalities on the 70th anniversary of the establishment of the Citizenship & Leadership Training Center (CLTC). Mr. Bawa mentioned that Professor Adegbulugbe, a former Presidential Adviser on Energy, was being honored for his outstanding contribution to society and energy worldwide.  Adegbulugbe was one of the experts recognized for their contribution to the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) which won the 2007 Nobel Prize with US Vice President Al Gore. Throughout his academic career, Anthony piled up several awards and distinctions such as the University of Ife (now Obafemi Awolowo University), Faculty of Technology, Award for the Best Student for his Grade Point Average (GPA) of 5.0 on a scale of 5.0 – an all-time record at the Obafemi Awolowo University in 1976. He is the Chairman/|CEO of Green Energy International Limited and All Grace Energy Limited, two very successful marginal field operators of the Otakikpo marginal field and the Ubima marginal field respectively, both in Rivers State Nigeria. One remarkable attribute attested to by all is that despite his strings of achievement in several areas of endeavor, Adegbulugbe exudes uncommon humility and friendliness which endears him to all cross section of the populace.  His uncommon generosity and exceptional philanthropy were attested to by all as evidenced by his eagerness to help people.