Which countries have you visited? I have been to Ghana, Dubai (United Arab Emirates), Malaysia, and the Republic of Benin. In which country did you have your most memorable travel experience? That has to be between Dubai and Malaysia. I experienced culture shock because our cultures are very different, unlike Ghana or the Republic of Benin that have similar cultures to ours. Malaysia is a third world country but is very advanced. What were some of the things that fascinated you in Malaysia? Everything about the place fascinated me. They are very technologically advanced and a lot of people pass through there. One would find Indian, Chinese, Japanese, Australians and other nationalities there. It is a very vibrant country and there are lots of (fashion) designers there. As a matter of fact, everything one would find in America is there. What makes Malaysian culture unique? Malaysia is a Muslim country, so one would see a lot of women wearing hijab. Their culture is vibrant. In a way, it also feels like walking into a different side of Japan because they have some similar cultures. They experiment with everything, especially fashion and style. What are some of the foods that tickled your taste buds while in Malaysia? I did not really try Malaysian food when I went there because there were fast food outlets such as Burger King and KFC. They also have large food courts (on several floors) in malls. The malls are so big that one may not be able to go around them in one day. However, I tried Ramen noodles as an Asian would make it. That’s as far as I went in terms of food. How receptive were the people towards you? They were nice. I witnessed both racism and extreme kindness in Malaysia, so it’s a mix of different things. As a black man in an Asian country, one would stand out like a sore thumb. On the same day I experienced racism, I also experienced something different. They were really nice and trusting people, so that taught me something. Were the people there knowledgeable about Nigeria? Yes, I think. A lot of Nigerians are in Malaysia, so I guess they would have some kind of knowledge about Nigerians. Which tourist attractions did you visit during your stay? I remember going to a place called Sunway Resort, which is like a water park. They have an artificial beach with artificial waves, as well as water slides. Any fun activity one can do with water can be found there. There is also a hotel in the resort. I was actually stunned by the place. I also went to the Twin Towers Mall, which has an indoor amusement park. They also have islands and highlands but I could not go to those places because there wasn’t enough time. Which other countries would you like to visit? One country I have always wanted to go to is Japan. I was going to go for the Olympics (Tokyo 2020), which was postponed because of the COVID-19 pandemic. I also want to go to South Africa and Kenya. How would you assess the security of lives and property over there compared to Nigeria? It is a far more oganised society and they are very strict about a lot of things, so security was paramount. One could lose something in Malaysia and find it either at the security post or ‘Lost and Found’ section. That is not to say there are no bad apples there. Every society has its ups and downs. Did anything in Malaysia remind you of home? It was only the Nigerians (I saw there) that reminded me about Nigeria. Everything there was foreign. Imagine walking on an air conditioned pedestrian bridge. We have been building monorails for a long time here but there, the monorails work. The monorails would drop one in front of the malls, so immediately one finishes shopping, one would just enter the monorail and leave. There is so much convenience and one does not have to deal with traffic snarls. The roads are great and well lit. There is almost no need to even drive with one’s headlights on. Over there, if one breaks the law and one does not pay the specified fine on time, one would be arrested. Was there anything you saw in Malaysia that you would like to see replicated in Nigeria? Everything! I would like the roads in Nigeria to be as nice as the ones in Malaysia. I also wish that the malls would be as big and as exciting as the malls in Malaysia. If one goes to the malls around here, one would see that many shops have gone out of business because nobody goes there to shop. But in Malaysia, there could be an up-and-coming designer who sells amazing merchandise in the mall. From the bottom floor, one would see the more popular and expensive brands, but by the time one gets to the fourth floor, one would see local brands, and a lot of people go there to shop. One does not have to break the bank to rent a shop in Malaysia. What advice do you have for prospective travellers? I would tell the person to just go there and enjoy themselves. It would be good to get someone on the ground there, so one does not mistakenly do something one is not supposed to do. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com