We are demystifying how a maintenance audit is managed and, more specifically, how the vehicle preventative maintenance profile is scored. I am presently doing an annual maintenance audit across the country for an international cement company in Nigeria. Preventative maintenance is the key to keeping any vehicle in good and working condition. This is especially the case for large, commercial vehicles like tractor-trailer or 18-wheelers. When a truck is inspected, maintained and timely repairs are made, large problems, expensive emergency repairs, accidents and violations can be more easily avoided. If you are in the business, either as an owner/operator or by leasing your truck and services to a company, it is important that you understand the basics of PM and what type of records you need to keep. This can save you money and potentially protect your business. “Kick the can down the road, until you have to deal with it,” might have been good business advice when news, goods, and services were only as fast as a pony could gallop. Today, however, you simply can’t afford such antiquated business mentalities against an environment where consumer demand is immediate. There are competitors on every corner ready to take your place when you do break, and unlimited options exist at the mere touch of a smart device. Don’t ignore preventative fleet maintenance service If your business doesn’t incorporate a prevention strategy for essentials, then you’re certain to eventually find yourself temporarily, or even permanently, closing the doors to your business when essential components inevitably break. The above may sound like common sense, but it’s asy for business owners to fall into the immediate monetary gratification of such bad business practices. The long-term financial and branding implications are often left out of sight, out of mind. For example, companies reliant upon their trucks being on the road 24/7 are often tempted to run the trucks until they’re broken because they’re making money now. It cranks and the tyres turn so why pull something not broken from the road where it can’t make money, right? Neglecting routine tractor trailer fleet maintenance ends up costing far more in the long run, and it can leave you unable to service your customer reliably or facing major repairs and replacement expenses. In addition, the damage done to your company’s reputation and brand is real and often immeasurable. The resources and time you devote in allowing qualified and certified technicians to perform routine preventive maintenance on your fleet will always be a rewarding ROI. Invest in a tractor-trailer fleet maintenance programme Whether you have tractor-trailers running locally or entire fleet going in multiple directions, tractor trailer maintenance is a must-have for the long-term financial and branding security of your business. Why? Legalities: Negligence is something you never want to hear associated with your business. DOT roadside inspections are part of the business. Companies should work to insure only safe trucks and trailers are on our highways. Operating a truck that’s not in good condition is a legal risk you shouldn’t be willing to take. If it’s involved in an accident, you can be held liable for not keeping the truck in good working order. Safety: In the same vein as legalities, safety is a big issue that impacts on you, employees, consumers, and bystanders on the road. Ensure your trucks are operating as safely as possible on the roadways by being routinely inspected. Efforts dedicated to safety are always appreciated by consumers and employees alike, and they help ensure your business rolls on as smoothly as possible each and every day. With the well documented shortage of CDL drivers, make your business “the safe place to work” and you attract the right drivers, as well as greatly reducing driver turnover. Lower unscheduled maintenance: It’s less expensive, faster, and safer to stop your tractors/trailers for the short time it takes to perform regular fleet maintenance than it ever will be to send out remote technicians or tow your trucks because of emergency repairs, breakdowns, and accidents while they’re out on the road. Lower replacement costs: Preventative maintenance can extend the life of a tractor-trailer by years, leading to predictive repairs which will further minimise downtime. The longer it lives, the less cost you have when it’s time to replace it. Plus, you get a boost in resale value. Maximise fleet productivity: Whatever your fleet size may be, a tractor trailer fleet maintenance programme is the best way to keep your trucks at peak performance without sacrificing productivity. Preventative maintenance is scheduled so that only one truck at a time is off the road, leaving the rest of your fleet to take care of business. What should be on a preventative maintenance checklist? Ensure that the following services are included in your fleet preventative maintenance plan: Multi-point vehicle inspection Adjustment Lubrication Worn-part replacement Testing, cleaning, and repair The schedule itself should centre around engine hours, fuel usage, mileage, or a specified timeframe between services. Your drivers should assist in fleet maintenance Your operators are the eyes and ears of a truck maintenance programme. They’re your first line of defence between service. Every driver should be performing routine inspections on their truck so that unexpected problems can be immediately reported to and addressed by a certified technician. These driver-check inspections should include: Safety checks of brakes, lights, wipers, horn, steering, and tires. Drivability checks for idle issues and misfires. Body and glass condition checks. Cleanliness checks. Comfort and communication checks of radio and AC/heat. Engine and fuel efficiency checks by inspecting for coolant leaks daily, observing for warning light indicators daily, checking oil daily, observing tailpipe for smoke, checking air filter monthly, and observing for fuel contamination when refueling. We suggest a routine audit of driver inspections. You can perform monthly or quarterly, but the process will serve many purposes. First, it shows your employees you are serious about maintenance and safety, further establishing it as a culture. Secondly, this is how you train your drivers. Just handing them an inspection form, assuming they were properly taught at their previous employer, does not drive uniformity in process. Lastly, you have the opportunity to find and address any potential issues before they arise on the route. You may save yourself a big headache for the day. Vehicle maintenance records Detailed vehicle maintenance records are a crucial part of your fleet maintenance programme. This history will enable you to track the timing and efficiency of repairs, manage your repair costs, chart the best maintenance practices for your specific fleet, and even help you gain vehicle value when you sell. The name of the game is to get the most out of every truck in your fleet, and you can’t do that by running through today’s problems. Eventually, you’ll be on the sidelines watching as others take over your game if you don’t have a solid prevention strategy for the essential components of your business, such as your truck fleet. P1141: Load calculation cross check range/performance Meaning Load calculation cross check range/performance is the generic description for the P1141 code. But the manufacturer may have a different description for your model and year vehicle. Currently, we have no further information about the P1141 OBDII code. Possible causes Faulty mass air flow sensor Mass air flow sensor harness is open or shorted Mass air flow sensor circuit poor electrical connection P1142: Load calculation cross check lower limit exceeded Meaning Load calculation cross check lower limit exceeded is the generic description for the P1142 code, but the manufacturer may have a different description for your model and year vehicle. Currently, we have no further information about the P1142 OBDII code. Possible causes Faulty mass air flow sensor Mass air flow sensor harness is open or shorted Mass air flow sensor circuit poor electrical connection Check for vacuum leaks P1143: Heated oxygen sensor 1 lean shift monitoring bank 1 Meaning The heated oxygen sensor 1 is placed into the front tube. It detects the amount of oxygen in the exhaust gas compared to the outside air. The heated oxygen sensor 1 has a closed-end tube made of ceramic zirconia. The zirconia generates voltage from approximately 1V in richer conditions to 0V in leaner conditions. The heated oxygen sensor 1 signal is sent to the engine control module. The ECM adjusts the injection pulse duration to achieve the ideal air-fuel ratio. The ideal air-fuel ratio occurs near the radical change from 1V to 0V. Possible causes Faulty front heated oxygen sensor bank 1 Intake air leaks Front heated oxygen sensor bank 1 harness is open or shorted Front heated oxygen sensor bank 1 circuit poor electrical connection Fuel pressure Injectors P1144: Air assist control valve circuit malfunction Meaning The front heated oxygen sensor (or O2 sensor 1) is placed into the exhaust manifold. It detects the amount of oxygen in the exhaust gas compared to the outside air. The heated oxygen sensor 1 has a closed-end tube made of ceramic zirconia. The zirconia generates voltage from approximately 1V in richer conditions to 0V in leaner conditions. The heated oxygen sensor 1 signal is sent to the engine control module. The ECM adjusts the injection pulse duration to achieve the ideal air-fuel ratio. The ideal air-fuel ratio occurs near the radical change from 1V to 0V. Possible causes Faulty front heated oxygen sensor bank 1 Front heated oxygen sensor bank 1 harness is open or shorted Front heated Oxygen Sensor Bank 1 circuit poor electrical connection Inappropriate fuel pressure Faulty fuel injectors Intake air leaks may be faulty Exhaust gas leaks P1145: Intake valve timing control performance bank 2 Meaning This mechanism hydraulically controls cam phases continuously with the fixed operating angle of the intake valve. The engine control module receives signals such as crankshaft position, camshaft position, engine speed, and engine coolant temperature. Then, the ECM sends on/off pulse duty signals to the intake valve timing control solenoid valve depending on driving status. This makes it possible to control the shut/open timing of the intake valve to increase engine torque in low/mid speed range and output in high-speed range. The intake valve timing control solenoid valve changes the oil amount and direction of flow through intake valve timing control unit or stops oil flow. The longer pulse width advances valve angle. The shorter pulse width retards valve angle. When on and off pulse widths become equal, the solenoid valve stops oil pressure flow to fix the intake valve angle at the control position. When is the code detected? When there is a gap between angle of target and phase-control angle degree, the valve will stop working and the ECM will trigger the P1145 code. Possible symptoms Engine light on (or service engine soon warning light) Possible engine lack/loss of power Possible engine rough idle Possible causes Faulty intake valve timing control solenoid valve Intake valve timing control solenoid valve harness is open or shorted Intake valve timing control solenoid valve circuit poor electrical connection Faulty crankshaft position sensor Faulty camshaft position sensor. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com