The Redeemed Christian Church of God will on Sunday begin the funeral rites for late Pastor Dare Adeboye, the son of the General Overseer of the church, Pastor Enoch Adeboye. Dare died in his sleep on Tuesday at Eket, Akwa Ibom State, where he was a youth pastor. He was aged 42. A statement by the church signed by Leke Adeboye, the younger brother of the deceased, said a special service would be held on Sunday, May 9, at the City of David Youth Church in Eket, Akwa Ibom. The statement said thanksgiving songs and tribute would be held on Monday, May 10, between 4pm and 6pm, at the RCCG House of Favour, Redemption Camp, Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. It added that this would be followed by a farewell service on Tuesday, May 11, at the Youth Centre, RCCG Redemption Camp. “With our hearts full of gratitude, we appreciate you, for standing by our family in this period of trial. We are consoled, no doubt, by the fact that our beloved son has returned home, to rest in the bosom to his maker and father. “Our confident assurance is rooted in the life of selflessness and sacrifice our son lived for Jesus Christ, our Saviour. “Thank you so much for your prayers and words of encouragement. “Our prayer is that we will all make it to that glorious home, in Jesus mighty name,” the statement added. Leke, who spoke to our correspondent on the phone, confirmed the funeral arrangement. Meanwhile, the National Leader of the All Progressives Congress, Bola Tinubu, has offered condolences to the bereaved family. In a statement he released on his social media pages on Friday, the former Lagos State governor said Pastor Dare’s ministry helped bring the word of God to many Nigerians across the country. He added that the deceased also lived a life of exemplary service to God and to His Church. “Pastor Dare will be remembered with the deepest affection and love not only by his family but also by the multitude of people whose lives he touched with his ministry. “May Almighty God give abiding peace and comfort to Pastor Dare’s parents, wife, children and the whole RCCG family so that they might have the strength to bear this loss. “Let us honor Pastor Dare by committing ourselves to a life of compassion and togetherness that Pastor Dare believed in,” he added. Also, Bayelsa State Governor, Senator Douye Diri, has commiserated with General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, and his family over the death of his son, Pastor Dare. Also, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State has commiserated with Adeboye, saying   the news of the untimely passing of Dare came as a great shock. Governor Samuel Ortom of Benue State  also expressed shock and sadness over the death of Adeboye’s son. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com