The Senate has asked the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to direct the Ministry of Health to commence immediate recruitment of adequate number of ports health workers in order to avert the third wave of COVID-19 which is currently ravaging some countries. The Chairman, Senate Committee on Public Healthcare and Communicable Diseases, Senator Chukwuka Utazi, stated this in an interview with our correspondent on Friday. Utazi said the Federal Government should, as a matter of urgency, make adequate provision in the supplementary estimates it will soon send to the National Assembly, for the purpose of engaging enough health workers at both the seaports and airports across the country. He said efforts should not be focused mainly on the airports while looking out for passengers arriving from India because many of them could come through the seaports. The Senator said unless the seaports and airports were adequately manned with trained health workers, the latest coronavirus variant from India might deal a devastating blow to Nigeria. He said, “The resurgence is mostly noticed in Lagos where there are many means of entry into the country. “We don’t just talk about the airports.  The seaport is even bringing more people into the country than the airports. “When any ship berths here and brings goods and services, the  number of people that would come with the ship could be as high as 1,000. “It is not just a case of one plane came in from India. I don’t believe so. I have gone on oversight visit to ascertain the state of our port health services at the airports and wharfs and I have seen that we have a lot of challenges in the country. “If we don’t sit up with all these challenges, we may have a lot of trouble to contend with very soon. “The funding of the port health services is a major issue. Most of the airports and sea ports in the country don’t have the required numbers of the port health services workers who are really trained to do the job. “Enugu airport was supposed to have taken off but they are not starting due to inadequate staff. The problem is that they cannot recruit. “The President should give an express directive to the Ministry of Health to allow them to recruit those that would be trained to work at the various airports and particularly those that hosts aircraft from foreign counties. “If we don’t do that, it will be an exercise in futility saying that we are fighting what we don’t know. “All the necessary facilities and personnel should be put in place. The Apapa wharf is a major area that people don’t consider, we need to go to all the seaports and airports and do the needful. “Adequate number of trained health services personnel must be there. We are waiting for the supplementary estimates for defence and health, we expect that there would be enough money in place to recruit adequate number of ports health services personnel to work in our airports and seaports.” “It is when we do that that we will be ready to fight coronavirus and avoid the resurgence, the third wave that is the issue now in most part of the World,” the Senator said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com