Slowly but surely, the wheel of justice is catching up with the reckless state governors undermining democracy and development by their incessant dissolution of elected local government councils. Delivering another definitive verdict recently, the Supreme Court declared the sacking of LG councils by the governors of Oyo and Katsina states as “illegal and unconstitutional.” The ruling, which nullified the replacement of the dissolved councils with “caretaker committees,” offers a ray of hope for progressive democratic governance at the grassroots, particularly if the judgement can be enforced. A federation has to leave sufficient room and provide the necessary resources for local governments to work as true units of self-government. The Supreme Court hinged its decision on Section 7 (1) of the 1999 Constitution. Although there are valid arguments that LGs ought to be controlled by states in a federal system, that section guarantees a “system of local government by democratically elected local government councils.” That means for long, the governors have been breaching the constitution with impunity. This is alarming. The serial breach explains why the Supreme Court hammer reverberated beyond Oyo and Katsina. And rightly so, because at least 12 state governors have followed the same path in the past few years. Take the Oyo State case. A few hours after assuming office as governor in May 2019, Seyi Makinde unilaterally dissolved the 33 councils and 35 LCDAs in the state. His justification was that the election that brought them into office in 2018 was illegal. That excuse is self-serving. It was not a surprise that Makinde’s antics fell flat at the Supreme Court. The court said Makinde acted “invidiously and in contemptuous disregard of a High Court judgement.” The cost of his precipitate decision to the taxpayer is huge: The Supreme Court ordered the Oyo government to pay all the council members their accrued wages though they did not work for most of their three-year tenure, which is the fault of the governor. Katsina State is not different. The Governor, Aminu Masari, dissolved the 34 councils there in 2015 when his first term began. He defied all entreaties to reverse the dissolution for six years. The governor, a beneficiary of democracy, ran for and won a second term in 2019, but prefers to undermine it at the grassroots. The state was ordered to pay the chairmen and councillors all their wages from the start to the end of their tenure. During that time, the Supreme Court had ruled on a similar infraction in Ekiti in December 2016 in which it nullified the dissolution of the state’s 16 LG councils. In 2010, the then incumbent, Kayode Fayemi, had dissolved the councils, although their tenure was to expire in 2011. It is a sign of Nigeria’s weak democracy that governors persist in these dissolutions in defiance of landmark rulings by the country’s highest court without paying any price for their impropriety. Transparent, free, and free elections and tolerance of the opposition are integral to democracy.  But in Nigeria, intolerance of the opposition and the morbid ambition of governors to seize total control of the machinery of their parties at the state level to further their selfish interests are at the heart of this peculiarity. Mostly, governors embark on dissolution when the councils do not belong to their party. Makinde, a Peoples Democratic Party governor, dismantled the Oyo councils that were elected under the All Progressives Congress, the party of Abiola Ajimobi, his predecessor. The same goes for Masari, an APC governor who met the PDP council officials in office. This noxious trend is also noticeable in Ondo State under Rotimi Akeredolu. In 2017, the APC governor sacked the elected PDP-led LG councils. Kwara Governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq (APC), suspended the elected the PDP-led councils in the state in 2019. In Yobe and Borno states, the pretext by the governors is that LG elections are not feasible because of the Boko Haram insurgency in the region. That, too, is vacuous. National elections have been held in these states with large voter turnout. Some of the other states like Kogi, Bauchi, Taraba, Enugu, Anambra, and Imo take an eternity to hold LG elections. It is plainly chaotic at that tier of government. Beyond the governors’ rascality and the imposition of caretaker committees, there are other pressing issues in the LG system that need fixing. Among these are farcical elections in states where they are held at all. Nearly in all cases, the handpicked candidates of the governors win 100 per cent. The opposition parties boycott the polls, blaming their withdrawal on an overtly rigged process. This charade ought to stop. It has led to suggestions by state electoral commissions that the Independent National Electoral Commission should take over the conduct of LG polls. In a federal system, such centralisation of institutions is an anomaly. All this denies the masses of the dividends of democracy. The London-based think tank, the Institute for Government, says councils are responsible for social care and provide some aspects of transport, housing, and education in England, Scotland, and Wales. They also provide neighbourhood services, including libraries and waste collection. Governors in Nigeria should strive for this, where LGs are run to deliver critical services like water, waste collection, clean markets, rural roads, housing, basic health care and quality primary education. Governors should stop acting like capricious, impish, and omnipotent emperors. With all its imperfections, the 1999 Constitution should be respected. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com