Information and communications technology and security experts have said that the deployment of 5G technology will not necessarily resolve national problems, especially the issue of insecurity in Nigeria. The Federal Government recently revealed plans to deploy 5G technology, a move which was strengthened last week Wednesday when the Nigerian Communications Commission and the Nigerian Communications Satellite Limited signed a Memorandum of Understanding for the usage of C-Band spectrum on Nigerian communications satellite for 5G services. An ICT expert and Senior Partner of e86 Limited, OluGbenga Odeyemi, in an interview with our correspondent provided technical insights into the concept of 5G technology, which he believes will ultimately open the door for a more connected digital economy. Regarding how 5G technology can help Nigeria in the fight against insecurity, Odeyemi said, “We already have several databases; BVN, FRSC, Immigration (International Passport), NYSC, NIN. We need to move further away from the manual way of validating the IDs from these databases. This will allow these agencies to have a trail of cars and drivers and help track criminals and solve crimes. “Also, other agencies can do the same thing. Immigration especially should be able to electronically scan each passport as it moves in and out of Nigeria, with such information made available to other security agencies. “The same thing goes for banking transactions. Each time a transaction happens, either from an ATM card, mobile device, or from within the premises of a bank, details such as the identity of those involved in the transaction, the location, and the time of transaction should be documented and access shared with other security agencies.” However, he said, there was a form of weakness, which limits how much this technology would be useful towards combating insecurity. He said, “It is also important to state clearly that regardless of how sophisticated technology is, humans will always be the weakest link. “This makes it critically important for all personnel in our security agencies to be properly trained and re-oriented.” Another ICT expert and the CEO of Futuresoft, Nkemdilim Begho, in a separate interview with our correspondent, affirmed that 5G would be the bedrock of a global digital economy with vast possibilities. However, she added, it would take more than this technology to fix the issue of insecurity in Nigeria. She said, “Five Generation technology alone will not solve our insecurity problems or benefit the common citizen immediately. “We must ensure that as we roll out 5G, we roll out policies that support cutting edge innovation, research and development focused on solving our societal and economic challenges, while strategically accelerating our human capacity development – equipping our workforce with the right digital skills that enable them to build solutions that are based on 5G and solve our problems, thus unlocking socioeconomic development across the country.” National Security Analyst, Nnamdi Anekwe-Chive, also agreed on the need to enhance human capacity development, stating that the major challenge Nigeria had was the lack of adequate capacity to fight insecurity. He said Nigeria was not short of assets or infrastructure to wage war against insecurity but lacked adequate capacity to tackle banditry, kidnapping for ransom and terrorism.