Douglas Izuchukwu is a deaf rights advocate and a student of University of Ilorin, Kwara State. The 22-year-old special educator tells ALEXANDER OKERE about his passion for the inclusion of persons living with disabilities in society As an advocate, why are you passionate about the education of the deaf and their inclusion? If you go to Wikipedia, you will see the definition of “deaf education” which is the education of students with any degree of hearing loss or deafness which addresses their differences and individual needs. You will as well see the process involved. The education of the deaf in Nigeria needs to be fixed in such a systematic way that it would address the specific needs of deaf students. That is what I’m passionate about. I know some schools for the deaf where some teachers have no knowledge of sign language. Where teachers have no skills required to educate deaf students and they still work there, how best can they interact with students whose language they don’t understand? Many schools for the deaf are in dire need of renovation and need facilities to accommodate everyone, but they are left in a deteriorated state. And most of them need government’s intervention. For example, someone applies for a course to study in the university and meets all the requirements, but the university unilaterally changes the course, acting like deafness is an automatic ticket for a change of course. What kind of education is that? The problem needs to be fixed. I’m passionate about the inclusion of persons with disabilities in all spheres of life. It simply means “leave no one behind.” Why do you think people find it difficult to interact with deaf persons? In Chinua Achebe’s book, Things Fall Apart, these questions were asked: “Does the white man understand our custom about land?” “How can he when he does not even speak our tongue?” That is why many people find it difficult to interact with ‘deafies’. They do not know their language. Communication is a problem here. When I saw myself in a school for the deaf, I wasn’t able to interact with anyone until I learnt sign language and mastered it. Deaf people are friendly; when I meet a deaf stranger anywhere, especially a kid, they would say in deafglish, “Me not know you. You not know me. Matter welcome, world one.” What does that mean? That statement shows how friendly and welcoming many deaf people are wherever you meet them. I wrote it in deaglish. To translate it to conventional English, it means, “Even though we don’t know each other, it doesn’t matter. You are welcome, my friend.” In the deaf community, a deaf person is called a deafie. That word might not be in our contemporary dictionaries, but you can find it on Google. I also make use of capital letter ‘D’ in the word, ‘deaf,’ which refers to a particular group of deaf people who share the same language and culture and see themselves as full members of the Deaf community. Deafglish (deaf English) is the kind of English that deaf people use to communicate which is understandable mostly by those who belong to and or are familiar with the deafs’ culture. The statement, “Computer is a good device but at the same time, it’s dangerous,” in deafglish is translated as “Computer good, but danger have.” Can you tell us about yourself? I am from a monogamous family of nine children. My dad is a businessman while my mum is a teacher. We are from Ezeagu Local Government Area of Enugu State. I am the only deaf child in the family. I was born on October 11, 1999. Were you born deaf or did you lose your hearing ability at some point? I was born with my hearing ability intact. In December, 2005, I fell sick in the village after Christmas Day. I was admitted to Enugu State University Teaching Hospital, Parklane, where I was diagnosed with sepsis, malaria and typhoid fever. It was on the sickbed that my hearing ability shut down without my knowledge, leaving me in a silent world. I asked my dad what happened to me, he said he was told by my doctor that it was excessive injections that resulted in my deafness. What kind of childhood did you have, having lost your ability to hear at six? My childhood was very awesome. I had a lot of friends who made my childhood amazing. When I became deaf, things changed. Some of my friends started turning into strangers. I was mocked, discriminated against, and looked down upon. I remember when I showed my friend a sign language book bought by my dad. My friend didn’t have time to turn the first page of the book. That day, I was on my own, thinking about life and what the future held for me. Did your parents enrol you in a special school or did you attend a regular school? I attended a regular school. After I became deaf, I started performing poorly at school. My parents were not happy with my performance. It was through Mr Okechukwu Ugwueche, who is also a deaf person, that I saw myself in the Special School for the Deaf, Odoakpu, Onitsha, Anambra State. I was dumbfounded when I saw myself in a school for the deaf where the hands speak in the air. But I started immersing myself in the community of the deaf. Mr Okechukwu has always been helpful. He taught me sign language and many things about the deaf community and the world. I call him a great teacher. In the special school, I maintained stellar records throughout. So, I wanted to see myself in a very challenging and competitive classroom. After my junior West African Examination Council exams, I was transferred to the Federal Science and Technical College, Yaba, Lagos, where I saw myself in ‘hot soup.’ Can you briefly explain what you mean by ‘hot soup’? Well, at FSTC, Yaba, I began to see myself in a very competitive and challenging classroom which made me realise that I had a very long way to go in education. I thought I was going to maintain the records which I had at the special school. I also noticed that I was not close to my classmates’ intellectual level. Whenever my friends got a higher score than me, I would just go mad with books. I strived so hard to be above average and it was so tough. There was a line I picked from the college’s anthem and it kept me moving. It says, “We are brave enough to face challenges and fit to cope with all our work.” Was Library and Information Science your original choice at UNILORIN? Library and Information Science wasn’t my original course. I picked Computer Science, but fate put me in LIS and I like the course. What are the challenges that come with studying in a Nigerian university as a deaf student? The challenges are many and they vary from individual to individual. Studying in a Nigerian university as a deaf student comes with underestimation. Many people are ignorant of my ability. The first thing they pay attention to is my disability. The general problem in Nigerian tertiary institutions to deaf students is the limited number of skilled interpreters. Nonetheless, there are some deaf students who can cope in a class without a sign language interpreter but there are some who cannot. Sign language interpreters are there to bridge the communication gap between the deaf and the hearing world. We (deaf people) are very curious about what tomorrow holds in all lecture theatres. My inquisitive attitude is deafening. I always ask, “What did they say? Will there be class tomorrow? Will there be a test? Were we given an assignment or group work and more?’’ There was a time I attended a class where my interpreter was absent. After the lecture, we were told to place a sheet of paper on our desk which sent the sign of a test to my mind and the test was related to the just-concluded lecture. I was glued to my seat looking like a lost sheep, asking myself whose paper I should peep into for answers. But the grace of God has always been my guiding light. Also, the pandemic has disrupted a lot of things. I have never attended a virtual class since it started, and I don’t want to because I know I’ll benefit nothing if the university management doesn’t employ the service of a sign language interpreter. Even when there is an interpreter, the network won’t allow me to focus. I would just see frozen hands. How do you cope with lectures that don’t come with lecture notes or lecturers that only dictate? I cope with lectures by asking for materials and copying notes from my friends in class. Moreover, I always sit with someone whose handwriting I can see and understand clearly without the need to ask questions or make  it look like I have come to frustrate my neighbour. However, I get wonderful support from my course mates most of whom are females. They lend me their notebooks anytime I ask. They are considerate. I only have two male friends who are very supportive. I also have a caring head of department and level adviser. God bless them. What about family support; how much support do you get and how important is it generally? Family support has been awesome. My parents invested and sacrificed a lot for my education, well-being and almost everything. My siblings too are remarkably generous. What has been your experience with discrimination? I face discrimination a lot of times. When I went to the Federal Science and Technical College, Yaba, Lagos, with my brother to process my admission, I wanted to be in a science class but one woman who we met said I couldn’t cope and that the school didn’t allow special students to be enrolled in science class. As of that time, I wasn’t aware of  my right to freedom of choice. Also, when it came to prefectship in my final year, I was looked down upon. But I shamed so many students who thought I couldn’t become a prefect just because I can’t hear by simply becoming the Assembly Prefect. I led over 2,000 hearing students on the assembly ground and I did it many times single-handedly. How do you handle discrimination now? Well, if anyone discriminates against me, I’ll educate them. I’ll make sure they get more knowledge that day. I’ll also bring to their notice, the existence of the Discrimination Against Persons With Disability (Prohibition) Act 2018, shortened as “Disability Law”. Do you think discrimination is still a major problem in Nigeria? Discrimination is still one of the major problems in Nigeria and it can be addressed if we fold our sleeves and work together. How? It can be addressed if we pay attention to the ability of an individual rather than their disability. It can be addressed if we include persons with disabilities more in politics. It can also be addressed if we enforce the disability law in every state — a law that PLWDs can use to fight for their rights. That way, prejudice and discrimination can be tackled and PLWDs will be better able to realise their potential and live their dreams. Is there anything hearing loss has cost you, something you would have loved to do? There is nothing hearing loss has cost me. I was so naive when my hearing ability decided to leave me. But I’m totally fine the way I am. What has it taught you? Disability has taught me that being deaf isn’t a problem. It warns me to work smartly and show the world that I’m the opposite of a nonentity. Reno Omokri, spokesperson for former President, Goodluck Jonathan, once replied to one of my emails. He ended with this quote, “You have the power to summon a stronger positive thought into your mind whenever a negative thought attempts to break into your mind.” Whenever I think of any negative thoughts associated with my condition, I remember that quote. Do you think your condition has helped you to be better or achieve something? I don’t think so. I have never thought I came to the world to achieve something with my disability. You said you are a special educator. What does that entail? A special educator is someone who teaches students in such a way that addresses their differences and disabilities. I am good at teaching deaf students and not every sign language user can do that. What are the different non-governmental organisations you volunteer for? They are Voice of Disability Initiative, Friends of The Deaf International Foundation, National Association of Nigerian Deaf Students, Inclusive News Network, Deaf Women Aloud Initiative, Deaf Literary Club and CareerEdu. You said you represented the Republic of Sudan at the Trust-Africa Model United Nations conference in 2017. What was the event about and how were you selected? The event was about leadership and more of a United Nations solutions-providing platform. I wasn’t selected but I registered for it and I was the only deaf person there among many change agents who were also representing different countries of the world. What other things do you do when you are not studying? I travel to wherever I can, interview people and write news like Punch newspaper journalists do. I also volunteer. What are your thoughts about relationships as a person with a disability? It’s a beautiful thing with its disadvantages. It depends. A relationship goes well when two understanding individuals are involved. Persons with disabilities fall in love too. And I’m encouraging all deaf men out there to make sure that their wife-to-be must pay ‘groom price’ before they agree to tie the knot. The ‘groom price’ is simple: learn the sign language and master it. The same applies to deaf women too. To communicate is to live. Are you in a relationship? I’m not in a relationship. Why? I don’t feel like entering into any yet. What do you plan to do after graduation? I plan to serve under the National Youth Service Corps – a normal thing for a graduate – and face my life. I also need to see myself working at the most widely-read newspaper in Nigeria. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com