International Breweries Plc has said it is set to train 500 young entrepreneurs online and take some of the participants to a bootcamp as part of its empowerment programme. During a press briefing, it said its International Breweries Foundation had launched the 6th edition of its Kickstart entrepreneurship programme. The statement said the initiative was targeted at enterprise growth and development for young entrepreneurs between the ages of 18 and 35. It said it was part of its objective of delivering impactful, developmental and sustainable projects. While giving an update on the process of the edition, the Managing Director, International Breweries, Hugo Rocha, said the Kickstart Initiative had evolved from the regional programme it used to be, to an inclusive national programme that reached the six geopolitical zones and 36 states of Nigeria. He said, “Over the years, we have held the conviction that the energy, zeal, and brilliance of the youths of Nigeria who constitute about 70 per cent of the total population should be tapped and channelled to productive use. “This is the logic behind Kickstart – to promote a culture of entrepreneurship among young people through training, provision of capital and mentorship.” He added, “As International Breweries celebrates its 50th anniversary this year, I am pleased that the results of a three-year impact assessment study that we commissioned on Kickstart came out positive and gives us the confidence to continue to support young people to achieve their dream of entrepreneurship. “We remain steadfast in our commitment towards the economic development of Nigeria.” Also speaking at the press conference, the Chairman, Advisory Board, International Breweries Foundation, Peter Bamkole, explained that International Breweries and its foundation were dedicated to continuing to contribute its quota towards tackling the twin challenges of unemployment and poverty. He said it would continue to promote decent work and economic growth in line with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goal. He said, “By creating Kickstart, International Breweries Foundation set out to be the nursery of innovation in business where budding enterprise managers are groomed—held by the hand and taken through the rigour of entrepreneurial work. “We aim to produce well-rounded entrepreneurs who understand and are prepared to put in the work it takes to do business successfully in a unique climate like ours.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com