Pastor Emmanuel Abina, the 53-year old late son of the General Overseer of The Gospel Faith Mission International, Dr. Elijah Abina, was laid to rest on Friday, hours after the church held a funeral service for him at its camp on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Ogun State. The younger Abina was, until his death the pastor in-charge of the Kingdom House Assembly, FESTAC Town. He was also the Director of Media and a member of the Executive Council of GOMFAMINT. The news of his death came to the public space shortly after the death of Pastor Dare Adeboye, the son of the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye. According to the biography made available to Saturday PUNCH, Late Abina took ill in March, 2021. It got really severe afterwards and he died on Wednesday, April 28, 2021. The biography read in part, “Prior to his passing, he saw the saints of old who had passed on. He mentioned seeing the late Pastor (Dr) R.A. George, the founding general overseer of GOMFAMINT; his late mother, Matron Felicia Albina, his late wife, Kemi Abina, among others. He was attracted to the glory of heaven and was no more. God didn’t take him.” The funeral service which started around 10am and ended at about 1pm had in attendance Bishop Reuben Olu Oke, a board member of The Redeemed Evangelical Mission, Ogun, who gave the sermon. Church sources told Saturday PUNCH that his wife had died a year ago. Abina is survived by four children and five siblings. Friends and well-wishers were there to bid him farewell as many sent in their eulogies to celebrate the late pastor. Some of the people who sent tributes were the Provost, Reuben George Theological Seminary, Ibadan, Pastor Dr. Gabriel Aina; GOMFAMINT’s Students’ Fellowship Representative, Prof Moses Aderibigbe; President, House of Hope Christian Centre, Dr Adekugbe Olusegun; and members of Kingdom House Family. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com