The President, Nigerian Institute of Building, Kunle Awobodu, has said that quality in building production, enhanced building performance and habitability are not chance events. Awobodu said this at the professional development workshop of the institute titled ‘Sustainable building services practices: Enhancing performance and user satisfaction’ which was attended by different stakeholders in the economy. Some of the participants were former Governor of Ogun State, Otunba Gbenga Daniel; an engineer and a former President of the Council for the Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria, Ibikunle Ogunbayo; and a builder and professor of building services at the Ahmadu Bello University, Ikemefuna Mbamali among others. He defined building services to include all that contributed to the comfort of users and utility of the buildings such as lighting and other electrical works, plumbing works and transportation systems in buildings such as lifts and escalators. Awobodu noted that these systems gave major headaches to end users of buildings where designs and installation were not properly done. He disclosed that the workshop was designed to address these problems and to strategically position builders in the process. In his speech, Daniel explained the history and development of escalators and elevators, their design considerations, construction, operation and maintenance. He said that external elevators could be used in the environment only after careful consideration of relevant factors such as weather, power among others. The Chairman of the Council of Registered Builders of Nigeria, who is also the current Vice-Chairman Chancellor of the Ahmadu Bello University,  Zaria, Prof. Kabir Bala lauded the NIOB for organising the workshop in search for solutions to the problem of services in buildings. Also speaking at the event, President of the Nigerian Society of Engineers, Babagana Mohammed, called for increased cooperation among the various professions in the construction industry. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com