The Emir of Katsina, Alhaji Abdulmumini Usman, on Monday announced the suspension  of activities marking the end of the Ramadan fast in the emirate council among which is  the Sallah Durbar procession (Hauwan Sallah). Citing security reasons for the directive, the royal father urged Muslims in the council to, instead,offer prayers for peace in the state and in the country. This is contained in a statement signed by the emirate’s secretary, Alhaji Bello Ifo, on Monday. The statement read, “His Highness, the Emir of Katsina, (Dr) Abdulmumini Kabir Usman has asked me to notify you and rest people of Katsina State that, due to security challenges in which our Muslim brothers in parts of the state are kidnapped or killed; and following advice from the state government, security agencies and the ministry of health; the Emirate has decided not to hold the Hauwan Sallah and other related ceremonies. “But as is tradition, people are allowed to go to the mosque for the Eid prayers, and supplications would be made for peace to reign in Katsina state and the country in general.” Meanwhile, the Karaye Emirate Council in Kano State has announced its decision to conduct its traditional Durbar to mark this year’s Eid-el Fitr festival. A statement by the Karaye Emirate Council Information Officer, Haruna Gunduwawa, on Monday, said three historic Durbar would be observed in the Emirate during the Sallah. The statement reads partly, “These include Eid-el Durba (Hawan idi) during which his Royal Highness the Emir of Karaye, Alhaji Ibrahim Abubakar rides horse from eid-el ground to his palace. “Others are Hawan Kutufi which is conducted in the evening a day after Sallah; and lastly Hawan Qeqasa which the Emir with his entourage ride horses from the palace to the local government Secretariat to pay a traditional Sallah Homage to the chairman of the local government and six others of the Emirate.’’ “In the light of this development, all district heads of the Emirate have been directed to mobilise village heads and horses’ riders to start moving to the Karaye town for the festivities from tomorrow, Tuesday, May 11, which is equivalent to the 29th of Ramadan.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com