The President of Dangote Group, Aliko Dangote, has assured the president of Tanzania, Samia Suhulu, that his company will increase its investments in the country. He also promised to woo more investors to Tanzania, according to a statement company issued by the Dangote Group on Tuesday. Dangote was quoted as commending Suhulu’s investor friendly policies since assuming office. He said while it was the government’s job to provide a conducive environment for investment, the private sector had the role of creating jobs that would grow the nation’s economy. He said, “I congratulate her for the swift changes that she is doing here in Tanzania and also assure her that we will continue to invest in Tanzania to create jobs, wealth and prosperity for the people of Tanzania. “I think she needs that support and we have reassured her that we will continue to establish here in Tanzania to support what she is doing.” “She can only do policies; it is not the government’s duty to create jobs. We will help her to invest and create jobs in Tanzania. “We are looking at other areas, maybe fertilizer and other investment opportunities here in Tanzania but be rest assured that, with the discussion we had with her, we will look for other opportunities to help her to make sure that her vision will be achieved.” Dangote also promised to woo investors to Tanzania, saying, “I think the business environment here has changed dramatically. Things are opening up and I can assure you that I will now be the champion of Tanzania wherever I go and tell people that things have changed. They should come and invest heavily here.” President Samia praised Dangote for his significant investment and assured him that her government would make sure his investments and that of other investors were protected and supported for the benefit of both parties. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com