Former national chairmen of the All Progressives Congress, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun and Adams Oshiomhole, have urged party members in Edo State and Nigeria at large to close ranks and work as one for the interest of the party. The duo made the appeal in Benin on Saturday at a stakeholders’ meeting of the party on the heels of the just concluded membership registration exercise in the state. The former chairmen, who commended the State Caretaker Committee of the party led by Col. David Imuse (retd.), for the success of the exercise in the state, expressed optimism that “the future is very bright for the APC as a party.” Odigie-Oyegun said, “Let us put the past behind us and let us look at the future. I belong to the APC, body and soul. Every member of the party, including party leaders, has a contribution to make for the improvement and success of the party. No individual can be greater than the party.” Similarly, Oshiomhole urged party members in the state to close ranks and work with the leadership of the party at the state and all other levels harmoniously in the overall interest of the party. Imuse praised party members for the success of the exercise, describing the turnout as impressive against the backdrop of being an opposition party in the state. “Right now, the APC has a very credible and reliable database of its members, in every unit across the entire country. Our party is now a stronger and more united party as a result of the exceptional membership registration exercise. “The implication of this healthy development is that in subsequent free and fair elections, our party is confident of undisputable victory. But this does not mean we should rest on our laurels. We must stay focused, awake, and be alert to the wiles of our opponents. “We must keep working as united and indivisible members of the APC, so that we can stop them very early on their nefarious tracks,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com