Flood is one of the most common and frequent natural disasters, often caused by heavy rainfall or storm surge. Its increase in intensity and frequency, driven mainly by rapid climate change, has resulted in widespread devastation, including loss of life, damages to properties, and critical public infrastructure. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), between 80-90% of all documented disasters from natural hazards during the past ten years have resulted from floods, droughts, heatwaves, and severe storms. Also, between 1998-2017, floods affected more than 2 billion people worldwide, leaving individuals and households with massive financial losses. The impact of flooding has significant multidimensional effects on both individuals and communities. The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) report on climate change states that floods cause more than $40 billion in damages globally annually, with an increase in death rate in recent years to more than 100 people a year. About a month ago, the Lagos State Government issued a flash flood alert, riding on the predicted high rainfall intensity for 2021. The projection posited that “Lagos State shall experience a rainy season of 238-261 days while the maximum annual rainfall is predicted to be 1,747mm”. Following the report, the State Government directed individuals and communities in coastal and low-lying wetlands areas to adopt safety measures to avert needless loss of lives and properties. These facts and figures call for urgent attention to flood risk management more than ever before, as these projections have stirred renewed focus on the high possibility of flooding, especially in coastal cities like Lagos. The peculiarities of a coastal city such as Lagos state, prone to severe flooding, should prompt residents and business owners always to have a flood mitigating and speedy response plan that helps curb perennial losses and get compensation when it goes beyond control. This risk to life, wellbeing and businesses is not limited to Lagos State. The report projected that 28 other states, including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), will most likely experience flood this year. In 2020, Nigeria recorded multiple flooding disasters across the country, overrunning an Internal Displaced Persons (IDP) camp, submerging thousands of homes and destroyed properties and farmlands in Kwara, Akwa Ibom, Niger, Kaduna, Katsina, Jigawa, Sokoto and Kebbi. Sadly, the adverse effect of flooding is not limited to rendering thousands homeless, destroying farm produces and the things that we hold dear; flooding also result in the loss of lives. The Red Cross reported that over 150 died and around 25,000 displaced by this natural disaster in the third quarter of 2021. These losses are needless as they are preventable. The onus, therefore, falls on everyone to play a significant role in flood risk management. It is dangerous to gamble on a proactive action, believing that these projections may not be probable. If you decide to take the smarter step by ensuring no loose ends or unplanned surprises alter the course of your happy life, then the Leadway Property and Household Insurance should be in your Flood Risk Mitigation plan. The policy provides the needed protection for your property, household content, and yourself from flood or any other risks such as burglary, lightning and thunderbolt, explosion, or fire. With its well-structured and flexible plans, you get to choose either a basic plan with a 5 million Naira cover limit or a 10 million Naira cover limit in compensation or damage repair costs. In addition to covering for unexpected financial losses for the damages, there is even an added funeral expense support and public liability cover should the worst happen. This is certainly a policy that undoubtedly guarantees you peace of mind over the imminent flooding projected by the government. It ensures you are calm in the face of the ensuing panic, including dire situations like the seven days period of non-stop rainfall because you will be assured. To find out more about this policy, you can visit www.leadway.com or call the Leadway Assurance customer care helpline on 01-2800-700. You can also send an email to Lcs@leadway.com for professional advisory or request a call back by visiting www.leadway.com/call-me. We are within your reach on our social media outlets – @LeadwayAssurance on Facebook & Instagram, @Leadwayinsure on Twitter. You can send a DM, and we would revert with all the information you require.