The Emir of Ilorin and Chairman of the Kwara State Council of Chiefs, Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari, has charged Christian and Muslim associations to resolve the religious crisis in the state. Alhaji Sulu-Gambari stated this on Thursday while delivering his Sallah message to Muslim faithful shortly after he observed the two rakat prayers marking the end of the 2021 Ramadan fasting at the Ilorin Central Eid praying ground. The prayer was led by the Chief Imam of Ilorin, Sheikh Muhammad Bashir-Soliu. The Kwara State Governor, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq also attended the prayers. The Emir said, “Religious misunderstandings in the state should be addressed by the two main religious leaders. “The society has gone far enough to prevent violent reactions on any matter that ought to have been settled amicably. The fasting has come and gone. All restraints exhibited while it lasted should be continued and the end of fasting should not be the end of personal discipline.” Meanwhile, AbdulRazaq has called for tolerance, mutual love and understanding among Nigerians. The governor made the appeal when he paid the traditional sallah homage to the Emir of Ilorin on Thursday. “Nigeria is our fatherland. It is the only country we can call our own. On this day and always, I join patriots to rally our people behind the singular agenda of mutual love, peace, unity and harmony,” he said. The governor was accompanied by some members of the Kwara State House of Assembly, cabinet members and chieftains of the All Progressives Congress in the state. In a related development, Moslems in Katsina State on Thursday observed Eid – El Fitri, marking the end of Ramadan fast. Governor Aminu Masari of Katsina State also on urged practitioners to use media wisely and responsibly, saying peace and security was for all without which no meaningful development could be achieved. The governor gave the advice shortly after performing the two Rak’at prayers attended by hundreds of residents, led by Imam Ahmad Batagarawa at the Shehu Usmanu Bin-Fodiyo Jumu’at mosque. He appealed to all Nigerians citizens to pray and work hard in order to restore peace in the country as the current security challenges require the support of all. ‘End  insecurity’Also, Muslim faithful in Umuahia, Abia State, called on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.) to end insecurity in the country. They include the Chief Imam of Abia State, Alhaji Umar Lawan Aminu, the Chairman, Northern Traditional Rulers Council, (South-South, South-East), HRH Sarki Yaro Danladi; and the Chairman, Nigeria Council for Islamic Affairs, Alhaji Suleiman Ukandu. In his message after the Eid prayers in Umuahia, Aminu urged the Federal Government to secure the nation, adding, “I am urging the good people of Nigeria to tell Buhari to ensure peace on Nigeria.” Also speaking Ukandu called for equity, justice and fairness in the country, adding, “These are the only panacea to the problems of Nigeria.” HRH Danladi said, “Let’s love one another, let’s go back to early ‘70s, ‘80s where there is no discrimination, no tribalism. He appealed to Buhari  to “bring insecurity to an end and make sure the poor ones have food on the table.” Imo Muslims are safe – Uzodinma Meanwhile, the governor of Imo State, Hope Uzodinma, on Thursday assured Muslims living in the state of their safety. The governor, who spoke at Government House on the occasion of Eid-el-Fitr, said that his administration had put all safety measures in place to ensure that nobody was harmed. Describing the Insecurity in the state as surmountable, Uzodinma, said that the people of the state were religious tolerant. The governor said, “As a responsible government, we are committed to protecting the lives of everybody living in the state, weather indigene or non indigene. Your safety is assured. Continue to see us as your brothers and sisters.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com