In this report, TOSIN OLUWALOWO x-rays the performances of Nigerian footballers across Europe over the weekend ENGLAND Nigerian duo Kelechi Iheanacho and Wilfred Ndidi had a Saturday to remember as they helped Leicester City win their first FA Cup after five attempts, defeating Chelsea 1-0 at Wembley. Forward Iheanacho was substituted in the 67th minute, while impressive midfielder Ndidi saw 90 minutes of action. Super Eagles target, Eberechi Eze, provided two assists in Crystal Palace’s 3-2 victory over Aston Villa on Sunday. Eze set up Wilfred Zaha to draw level at 2-2 in the 75th minute, before providing another assist for Tyrick Mitchell for the match winner in the 84th minute. ITALY Striker Simy Nwankwo scored a 93rd minute goal to secure a 1-1 draw for relegated Crotone in the Italian Serie A on Sunday. It was the big striker’s 20th league goal, making him the only other African aside from Samuel Eto’o to achieve the feat in Italy’s top division. Victor Osimhen saw 84 minutes of action as Napoli defeated Fiorentina 2-0 away from home on Sunday to boost their Champions League chances. Osimhen, who has scored seven goals in his last 10 appearances, couldn’t add to his tally before being replaced by Andrea Petagna. GERMANY At the Schueco Arena, Kevin Akpoguma continued his return from injury by playing for 66 minutes before he was replaced by Kevin Vogt in Hoffenheim’s 1-1 draw at Arminia Bielefeld on Saturday. Taiwo Awoniyi was a 55th minute substitute in Union Berlin’s 1-1 draw at Bayer Leverkusen. NETHERLANDS Eagles first choice goalkeeper Maduka Okoye conceded one goal as Sparta Rotterdam saw off Heerenveen 2-1 away from home in the Dutch Eredivisie on Sunday. The 21-year-old has now conceded 35 goals in 28 league games this season. SCOTLAND Joe Aribo was on action for 79 minutes as Glasgow Rangers made history on Saturday, ending the Scottish Premiership unbeaten. The Scottish champions saw off Aberdeen 4-0 to crown a succesful season, with a Joe Lewis own goal, a brace from Kemar Roofe and Jermain Defoe hitting the fourth goal to help them surpass the 100-point mark with 102 points. Aribo’s compatriot Leon Balogun was not listed for the tie. BELGIUM Hitman Paul Onuachu hit the back of the net again as RC Genk secured a hard-fought 2-1 victory over Anderlecht in Round 4 of the Belgian Pro League Playoffs on Saturday. Onuachu’s 14th minute strike was his fourth in the playoffs, after a splendid season where he found the back of the net 29 times in the season. He was eventually replaced by compatriot Cyriel Dessers with 14 minutes of normal time left to play. Dessers picked up from where Onuachu left, scoring the winner in the 86th minute after Lukas Nmecha had equalised for Anderlecht in the 31st minute. TURKEY Olanrewaju scored the first goal in the 42nd minute in Sivasspor’s 2-1 victory over Kasimpasa in the last game of the Turkish Super Lig on Sunday. Ivorian Max-Alain Gradel doubled the lead for Sivasspor in the 69th minute, before Yusuf Erdogan pulled one back from the penalty spot in the 74th minute. Arouna Kone had the opportunity to put the game beyond doubt, but fluffed his penalty in the fourth minute of added time. RUSSIA Winger Chidera Ejuke was on target for the second straight game but still ended on the losing side with CSKA Moscow, who fell 3-2 to city rivals Dynamo Moscow in the Moscow derby in the last game of the season on Sunday. Ejuke scored the equaliser to make it 2-2 in the 79th minute, before Arsen Zakharyan hit the target with one minute of regulation time remaining to secure victory. CSKA finished the season sixth, same points as their rivals in seventh, with Ejuke scoring five goals and providing three assists all season. Former Eagles player, Victor Moses was also on target for Spartak Moscow on the last day of the season, scoring an 83rd minute equaliser against FK Akhmat to end the game 2-2 at the Akhmat-Arena on Sunday. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com