Following a partnership between the African Business Coalition for Health and the United Nations Economic for Africa, there are indications that the healthcare sector in Africa is on course for a significant boost. According to a joint statement by the organisations, the initiatives which the partnership will develop and execute include the Healthcare and Economic Growth in Africa report and African Continental Free Trade Area-anchored Pharma Initiative. Co-founder of ABCHealth, Aliko Dangote, was quoted as saying, “With the coalition that ABCHealth is building across the continent, responsible business leaders and philanthropists will have a platform that enables them to make sustainable, large-scale investments in health that transform African economies and people.” ABCHealth Chairman, Aigboje Aig-Imoukhuede, expressed confidence in the impact the partnership would bring to bear on the continent. He said, “It is our firm belief that with the public and private sectors working together, combining political will with business knowledge, Africa’s health sector can be built to the point where it will deliver affordable health to Africans in an equitable manner.” ECA Executive Secretary, Vera Songwe, stated that investing in health was not just a social good, but also made a good business case. Songwe said, “Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, business opportunities in the healthcare and wellness sector in Africa were estimated to be $259bn by the year 2030, with the potential to create 16 million jobs. The pharmaceutical industry alone was estimated to be US$60bn in 2020 and is still growing. “The AfCFTA-anchored pharma Initiative represents lucrative private sector investment and innovation opportunities that will change lives, reduce poverty and contribute to Africa’s inclusive and sustainable economic development.” Similarly, Chief Executive Officer, ABCHealth, Mories Atoki, projected that Africa’s health sector was about to experience a significant shift due to the increasing interest that critical stakeholders in the private and public sectors were showing in terms of enhancing health outcomes and improving livelihoods. The partnership, according to ABCHealth and ECA, will drive two primary initiatives: leverage innovation to build resilient national health systems in a post-COVID-19 pandemic; and provide the blueprint for the local production of drugs and medical equipment across West Africa. The organisations, in a joint statement, said it was becoming clearer, especially with the outbreak of COVID-19, that more private sector involvement was required to support government’s efforts on health.