Peter Dada The Ondo State capital, Akure, was on Saturday agog as hundreds of Yoruba Nation agitators, under the aegis of Ilana Omo Oodua, trooped to the town from neighboring South-West states for a rally. The agitators, who were led by activist Sunday Adeyemo, alias Sunday Igboho, chanted various solidarity songs during the peaceful rally, which began at Isikan Roundabout, and moved to other parts of the ancient town. The agitators, comprising women, youths, motor cycle riders, traders, artisans, and others, wore attires with the inscription ‘Omo Oduduwa ni mi.’ (I’m Oduduwa’s child). Meanwhile, policemen, soldiers, personnel of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps; and Amotekun were on the ground to maintain order and ensure that the rally didn’t not degenerate into chaos. Speaking at the palace of the Deji of Akure, Oba Aladelusi Aladetoyinbo, Igboho said the agitators did not plan to stop their campaign until the Yoruba Nation became a reality. Igboho, who arrived at the palace around 3pm, said there was a need for traditional rulers to be given prominent roles in the constitution to enable them to get more involved in the administration of the state and local governments. He said, “Traditional rulers are supposed to be the father of all but they have been relegated and I believe all these anomalies would end when Yoruba Nation comes to being. “Politicians have sold us to Fulani and now these Fulani are beyond their control. It is time we free ourselves. No going back on the agitation, no election in 2023 and I have a strong belief that we are going to succeed.” Igboho said the Yoruba Nation agitators had the support of the Ondo State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu, to hold a rally in Akure. “The governor is aware of these things we are doing, we have his support. We are no more under the Fulani. All we want is Yoruba Nation,” Igboho declared. In his response, the Edemo of Akureland, High Chief Afolabi Fayehun, who spoke on behalf of Deji of Akure, urged the agitators to be peaceful and not allow the rally to turn violent. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com