Following recent gas explosions in the Abeokuta metropolis, the Ogun State Government has banned the sale, repair and servicing of all cooling systems, especially air conditioners and refrigerators, in the state. PUNCH Metro had earlier reported that in one week, multiple gas explosions in the state capital claimed six lives and eight persons were injured with the government suspecting adulteration of combustible products as the reason behind the incidents. The decision to ban the sale and servicing of cooling system comes after the state government had banned the production, sale and use of industrial and welding gas in the state. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Environment, Mr Ola Oresanya, said in a statement on Sunday that technicians, who specialised in the repair and servicing of cooling systems and dealers in the affected gas types must adhere strictly to the ban in their own interest and that of the public. The statement read in part, “With the recent incidence of gas explosions in Ogun State, the state government, in its bid to ensure that no further lives are lost through similar circumstances, or any other avoidable circumstance whatsoever, is placing a ban on all cooling systems, related gas sales, purchase and use until further notice. Compliance is not optional.” Oresanya, while describing the period as a trying time, said the state government would clamp down on any outlet or individual that flouts the order, adding that it was open to any suggestion from the general public on the matter. He added that Governor Dapo Abiodun had set up a task force to investigate the unethical practices associated with the supply of highly inflammable gas products. “The Prince Dapo Abiodun-led state government has set up a task force to look into recent incidences of gas explosions in Ogun State. The response team will uncover all unethical practices associated with the entire supply chain of the various highly inflammable gas products suspected to have been adulterated. The task force has commenced engagements with critical stakeholders in the energy sector,” Oresanya stated. The special adviser also called on those affected by the temporary ban, including manufacturers, dealers, technicians and others, to bear with the state government as the decision was taken in the interest of public safety. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com