Waiting month after month for a positive pregnancy test could be frustrating but the solution may be simpler than you realise. One of the things that can affect your chances of getting pregnant is an imbalance of hormones. It should be no surprise that your hormone levels are the source of the problem. There are key hormones that affect fertility even as it’s true that you have tons of different hormones in your body. Only a few come into play when you’re trying to conceive. Get familiar with some of these key fertility hormones if you suspect a hormone imbalance might be affecting your ability to get pregnant. The good news is a hormone test will give you insight into these important hormones. FSH is the most important hormone for fertility, FSH or follicle-stimulating hormone is responsible for maintaining cycle regularity and producing healthy eggs. LH or luteinising hormone may sound familiar; it’s the hormone that’s measured in at-home ovulation predictor kits and is the hormone that tells your body to release an egg that’s ready to be fertilised. Another hormone, AMH, also called anti-Mullerian hormone, is responsible for maintaining the immature eggs in your body. If you come across a hormone test that measures your ovarian reserve, or how many eggs you have left, it’s measuring AMH. Progesterone is an important female hormone and a key player both in preparing your body for pregnancy and for helping a new pregnancy to continue. Often when a woman suffers repeated miscarriages, plummeting progesterone levels might be responsible. If you’re thinking that prolactin is the hormone that handles milk production, you’re correct! But it’s also a key player in ensuring your cycle stays regular, which is essential when trying to conceive. You may not realise this, but your thyroid hormones have a major influence on the ability to get pregnant. The thyroid gland, female reproductive organs, and adrenal glands are intricately connected. If there is an issue with either the thyroid or the adrenals, becoming pregnant can be a challenge. The good news is a hormonal imbalance test for thyroid or adrenal dysfunction can reveal issues that can be easily fixed in most cases. Many women find that when their thyroid is brought back into healthy hormone range, they easily become pregnant. There are several causes of a hormonal Imbalance. First, it’s important to know that if your hormones are out of balance, it’s not your fault, and you’re not doing anything wrong. There are very few things you can do lifestyle-wise that negatively (or positively) impact on hormone production and balance. One lifestyle factor that can be important though is obesity. Extreme athletes can also have issues as low body fat can impact on a woman’s menstrual cycles and ovulation. Medical conditions affecting the thyroid and adrenal glands can also affect hormones. In fact, the thyroid is so important to sustaining a healthy pregnancy that it’s considered one of the biggest causes of hormone imbalance in women. Another is PCOS, or Polycystic Ovary Syndrome – a condition that affects up to 12 per cent of women of childbearing age. It’s characterised by irregular cycles, excess male-pattern hair growth, and infertility. Other causes of hormone imbalance include age, certain medications, food allergies, stress, etc. If you’ve been trying to conceive for more than a few months and you’re otherwise healthy, it may be time to consider your hormone levels. You may experience Premenstrual Syndrome, irregular menstrual cycles, infertility, early menopause, hot flashes, etc. You must have realised by now that fertility isn’t exactly a one-size-fits-all thing. Each woman is different, which can make it tough to determine when it’s time to take action. But in general, if you haven’t conceived after 6-12 months of trying (it’s fine if you keep it to only six months if you’re over 35), your cycles are totally irregular and unpredictable, or if you have symptoms of PCOS or a thyroid condition, it’s wise to get checked. There are two basic methods: you can have your doctor order the tests and have your blood drawn at a lab, and in some cases, you can try an at-home hormone testing kit. More and more women are turning to at-home testing solutions as a way to kick-start their fertility journey. Hormones can be measured in blood, urine or saliva, and each at-home hormone test functions a little differently. There are benefits and drawbacks to each method; while a hormone blood test is the traditional method, saliva hormone testing is becoming a widely accepted way of testing, since it gives a better average over time by collecting several different samples of spit in a single day (gross, we know). If you decide to try an at-home test, it’s a good idea to discuss your findings with your own doctor, especially if anything unusual pops up. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com