THE House of Representatives has invited ministries, departments and agencies of the Federal Government as well as top officials, the private sector and civil society organisations to explain the status of looted funds and public assets recovered in the last 18 years. The Ad Hoc Committee on Assessment and Status of All Recovered Loot, Movable and Immovable Assets from 2002 to 2020 by Agencies of Federal Government of Nigeria for Effective/Efficient Management and Utilisation is to hold an investigative hearing on Monday. Chairman of the committee, Mr Adejoro Adeogun, had last week laid an interim report by the committee. Among those to appear before the committee on Monday are the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami (SAN); Minister of Finance, Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed; National Security Adviser, Major-General Babagana Monguno (retd.); Accountant General of the Federation, Ahmed Idris; and the Auditor General of the Federation, Adolphus Aghughu. Others are the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission, Nigeria Police Force, Nigeria Customs Service, Nigerian Navy, National Drugs Law Enforcement Agency, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Central Bank of Nigeria; Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority; Presidential Advisory Committee against Corruption; and commercial banks. Also to appear before the lawmakers are the Association of Bureau de Change Operators of Nigeria; Chairman of the disbanded Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property; Chairman of the disbanded Pension Reform Task Team; former Ministers of Justice; former National Security Advisers; former chairmen of EFCC; former chairmen of ICPC; former Inspectors General of Police; former Comptrollers General of Customs; former Commandants General of NSCDC. The rest are Mr. Ngozika Ihuoma, MD, Crincad & Cari Nigeria Limited; Mr. Dipo Fatokun, CBN’s Director of Banking Services; Mr. Abubakar Animasaun, EFCC’s Account Department; Mr. Abdullahi Ibrahim, a member of staff at EFCC; Mr. Mukhtar Bello, also of the EFCC; the Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre; Socio-Economic Rights and Accountability Project; Human and Environmental Development Agenda; BudgIT; non-governmental organisations and civil Society Organisations. ”Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com