The quote below took the words right out of my mouth. Outrageous generosity is a character quality of those who win with money—-Dave Ramsey It’s actually a disposition that masks a deeply flawed character. The thing about such people is that when it comes to matters of the heart, they lack the emotional or even attitudinal disposition to “be the there.’’ Tough luck if you can’t run with what they offer and just close your eyes to everything they are failing woefully at. Those who have seen it all will easily tell you that money ceases to become a motivation at some point. Yet, young ladies are trending over dalliances with baby-daddy musicians. Granted that their generosity (coupled with fame) is hard to beat but it’s in your best interest not to miss where a man is coming from. The money will stop to matter at some point and the drama of multiple baby-mamas is no child’s play. You will never enjoy anything you make more important than your peace of mind! People who are outrageously generous would be almost perfect if they can embrace the inconvenience of a soul journey to connect with their essence. Unfortunately, they do what they do because they are running from themselves. Mindless generosity is symptomatic of seeking a QUICK FIX to everything. It’s easier to run in circles than hold back on our impulse. But it only litters your path with baggage. And the more your baggage, the higher the “rejections’’ (from suitable options) will be. Otherwise, you keep settling for less and it’s hard to give your best to an option you resent, deep down. I tell people that when it’s a dead-end all over, leave the pursuits alone. Stop throwing money about. Instead, go within to fix yourself first. Only then, can life take your hand again to redirect you. Life doesn’t really hold back when we are deserving of what we ask of her! The ability to sieve through the unpleasant responses of life is the greatest weapon. This realisation is hard for most people to grapple with. And it’s even harder for those who throw “materialism’’ at every emotional hitch. Of course, everyone wants someone who really GIVES. In fact, the more you give, the quicker you are “loved’’ but deep down, the human mind desires somewhat of a deeper connection that isn’t rooted in physicality. Women have been known to marry men who throw all the money at their issues but can’t spare a few minutes by their bed side, as they fight for their lives. One of such men didn’t even remember that his wife lost their twins the morning he travelled for business overseas. Frankly, when life hits hard, there’s very little any generosity that is NOT of the soul can do for you! Before hugging materialism as if that’s all there is to life, remember that life will always spring up moments of soberness. It’s easy to fall head over heels for outrageous givers but just as fast as their ‘’love’’ crescendos, the diminuendo is even faster. Yet, “it’s not that happiness is doomed to fail. It is emotions that are volatile.’’ Not only do they not know how to win any other way, they don’t even bother! Money has always been their winning formula and it’s what most people are after. It’s also the reason they grapple with bouts of moodiness.  It’s never lost on them that the majority are in their space for the carrot. And so they are in perpetual pursuit of a different experience, only to keep recycling their experiences. Winning differently is alien to them. But then, a wholesome attitude comes from a healed soul and that’s the magnet for healthy relationships! Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com