The risk of premature ejaculation is higher among males who undergo circumcision after the age of seven, a study warns. The International Society for Sexual Medicine and the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders define premature ejaculation as “a male sexual dysfunction characterised by ejaculation which always or nearly always occurs prior to or within about one minute of vaginal penetration; and inability to delay ejaculation on all or nearly all vaginal penetrations; and negative personal consequences, such as distress, bother, frustration and/or the avoidance of sexual intimacy.” The researchers proposed that premature ejaculation in heterosexual men be defined as “a repetitive pattern of ejaculation occurring within approximately one minute on 75 percent of occasions for at least six months.” Experts say though there is no set time when a man should ejaculate during sex, if you ejaculate and lose your erection this soon, you and your partner may feel there’s not enough time to enjoy it. The 2015 study was published online by the National Institutes of Health in open-access journal BMJ and titled, ‘At What Age Range Should Children Be Circumcised?’ Apart from the risk of premature ejaculation, the authors say, circumcising a child late comes with longer hospitalisation which, they warn, is associated with an increased risk of infection as well as increased costs. The authors of the study compared people that were circumcised late and those people that were circumcised early. The clinical trial of the study, which involved 603 children, was conducted at the affiliated hospital of Erzincan University of Medical Sciences, Turkey, between June and December 2014. The study was done to determine the best age range for routine male circumcision with respect to a child’s health and the cost. It notes that neonatal circumcision has fewer associated complications unlike the one done in older age. Citing earlier work by researchers, the study authors reported that circumcision in the phallic period [spanning the ages of three to six years] doesn’t affect psychosexual functions; while other researchers found that the risk of premature ejaculation is higher in children circumcised after age seven. “These findings suggest that it is better to perform circumcision when boys are one year old, when the anesthesia complications are also at a minimum.” Again, a 2014 article published in peer-reviewed journal,Natureand titled, ‘Does circumcision have a relationship with ejaculation time?’ examined the effect of circumcision on ejaculation. “Our goal is to investigate whether there is an effect of circumcision on ejaculation parameters and to research the relationship between intravaginal ejaculatory latency [delayed] timeand premature ejaculation diagnostic tool,” the study stated. The authors submit that the relationship between circumcision and premature ejaculation is controversial; and that the effect of circumcision on ejaculation was researched by several authors, with some of them discovering that circumcision was independently associated with premature ejaculation. According to some earlier studies cited by the authors, the reasons for premature ejaculation in circumcised males may be hyperstimulation of the nerves of the glandis corona or thickening/keratinization of the glans penis. This is even as some other researchers obtained contrary results to the aforementioned studies. Experts say that many factors, including geographic factors, ethnicity, lifestyle, sociocultural phobias, psychiatric (such as depression or anxiety) or other diseases (such as diabetes, prostate diseases and erectile dysfunction), may affect ejaculatory function. Another important factor, they say, is the age at circumcision. Some researchers state that circumcision at about age seven (⩾7 years) was associated with an increase in the risk of premature ejaculation, compared to circumcision at less than age seven (<7 years). On the other hand, other scientists reported that this difference was not at the level of dysfunction of sexual avoidance. The authors concluded that circumcision does not adversely affect ejaculatory functions in adults.“Currently, sufficient data to clarify the relationship between premature ejaculation and adult circumcision are lacking,” they say. To continue reading this story and more, click here Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com