The national leadership of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria has expressed optimism that the 9th National Assembly should act like an expectant mother for the birth of a new constitution that will address the identified flaws in the 1999 constitution. The PFN Deputy National President and Founder, Royal House of Grace International Church, Apostle Zilly Aggrey, who spoke at the Port Harcourt zonal public hearing convened by the Senate Committee on the 1999 Constitution Review, said the onus was on the 9th Senate to deliver the promised change of the All Progressives Congress’ Federal Government in 2015. Aggrey added that the Christian regulatory organisation believed in a united Nigeria, adding that God supports revision of laws that govern societies. He said, “I am here today to say Nigeria cannot be wiser than God. The National President says we believe in one Nigeria, we believe in an indivisible one Nigeria. The all-wise God said in Hebrew 10:9, ‘He taketh away the first that He will establish the second.’ “If the all-wise God says, ‘Let me take away my first covenant and bring a new one,’ Nigeria cannot be wiser than God. Therefore, it is on the onus and mandate of the 9th Assembly to make sure that as change was promised to Nigerians in 2015, the actual change really promised is a change to a brand new constitution.” The President, Young Environmentalists in Port Harcourt, Wonne Afronelly, who is also the Initiator, My Environment, My Wealth, a civil society organisation, urged the committee to review the constitution to empower state and local governments to tackle and address environmental hazards and health emergencies “We want the aspect of the constitution that states that the state will be responsible for improving the environment and safeguarding the water, air, land and wildlife of Nigeria. “The Senate herein refers to the Federal Republic, not the state or the local government. This particular aspect of the constitution, I think, is too generic because when the black soot situation surfaced in 2016 in Port Harcourt, there were several protests and peace walks but nothing was done. “On behalf of young environmentalists in the Niger Delta, we are proposing that this aspect of the constitution be more simplified to allow and empower the 36 states of Nigeria and the local governments where possible to take immediate decisions where there is an environmental hazard or health emergency without waiting for the Federal Government.” The Chairman of the Senate Committee on the review of the 1999 constitution South-South Zonal Public Hearing in Port Harcourt, Senator Betty Apiafi, who presided over the two-day event, promised that the committee would ensure the suggestions proffered by members of the public and other stakeholders would be adhered to. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com