A Professor of Radiation Medicine at the College of Medicine, University of Nigeria, Nsukka, Ifeoma Okoye, says that most cases of endometrial cancer occur among middle-aged women. Recall that recently, a veteran actress, Ify Onwuemene, passed on after a long battle with endometrial cancer. A post by actress Gloria Anozie-Young announcing the death of the actress partly reads, “Ify Onwuemene was diagnosed with endometrial cancer. Her womb was removed, but she has been battling the ailment for many years now. “In 2019, even after eight sessions of chemotherapy, the doctors told her that she had reached Stage 4. However, we are not sure if she was given the wrong diagnosis or treated with the wrong chemo, because she still felt pains in her upper abdomen and her tummy became bloated…” Speaking with PUNCH HealthWise, Prof. Okoye said that women 45 years of age and above are at risk of endometrial cancer and that the average age of occurrence is 60 years, while women between the ages of 50 to 70 are at increased risk. Endometrial cancer starts when cells in the endometrium (the inner lining of the uterus) start to grow out of control. Endometrial cancer is sometimes called uterine cancer, experts say. This type of cancer is different from cervical cancer. Endometrial cancer has four stages and, according to the American Cancer Society, “as a rule, the lower the number, the less the cancer has spread. A higher number, such as Stage IV, means the cancer has spread to other parts of the body.” “Surgery is the main treatment for most women with this cancer. But in some cases, more than one kind of treatment may be used. The choice of treatment depends largely on the type of cancer and stage of the disease when it’s found,” ACS also said. According to experts, a key sign of the cancer is abnormal vaginal bleeding, such as bleeding after menopause or bleeding between periods. Other symptoms may include pelvic pain and pain during sex, but some women experience no symptoms at all. Also speaking, an oncologist at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Ikeja, Dr. Ephraim Ohazuruike, said that the best way to tackle endometrial cancer is the removal of the womb at the early stage to avoid the spread of the cancer. “Staging is very important. The earlier the stage, the better. But it’s a function of a lot of things: the type of cancer, what molecule is driving it, and all that. So, it’s not just one thing that you consider. To continue reading this story, go to:  https://healthwise.punchng.com/ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com