Actress, Etinosa Idemudia, was the subject of online discourse during the week when it was reported that her eight-month second marriage had crashed. Reacting to a blogger who published the news of the failed marriage, Etinosa had written on social media, “This ‘old witch’ again! I really do not want to reply to you but I feel you will never stop if I ignore. You were the first person to publicise my pregnancy that was barely trying to survive past the first trimester due to its complication. I kept quiet. Now you have come again and I know you have receipts and you won’t dare us to deny. “I don’t blame you. It is the close friend and insider who is feeding you (I blame). May God forgive that person. Everyone is going through something including you. Thanks for getting this huge burden off my chest.” However, when Saturday Beats reached out to the actress, she refused to speak about what led to the end of the marriage. She said, “I don’t react to rumours. I will also appreciate more light on my works which are in public, rather than my life which is private to me.” Etinosa also maintained that she was not bothered by trolls but was rather concerned about their mental health. She said, “I am fine. I am actually more concerned about the mental health of the trolls. I don’t think someone who is alright upstairs would go around spewing negativity.” Speaking on her current projects, the actress stated that the winners of the talent hunt she initiated during the COVID-19 lockdown in April 2020, would feature in her upcoming projects. She stated, “It (talent hunt) was majorly to keep youths engaged during the lockdown. Two of the winners have been cast in the movie I am producing this year, and a couple of them would be in my (television) series as well. However, I am not sure when I would be filming that (TV series). “Meanwhile, there is a TV series I am passionate about. It is titled, ‘Blood of Enogie’ and is currently being aired. I played the character, Akugbe, whose sole purpose was to give birth to an heir but she soon hatched other ideas with her mother, who is a witch, to take over the palace. She was brought in by the first wife, Queen Itohan (played by Chioma Akpotha), who could not carry a child to full term after nine years of trying. “I actually spent three months filming the series and we were even on set in Benin (Edo State) when the lockdown was declared. “It was one of my most challenging projects because of the time and energy I put into it. It was also tough portraying the quarrelsome and wicked character.” On if she shares any personality traits with the character, Etinosa said, “Not at all. She is evil and vile, while in real life, I am sweet.” Speaking on some of the challenges she faces at this stage of her career, the actress said, “As a movie producer, one major challenge is distribution, which is still quite poor in Nigeria. Every true artist’s dream is to showcase their work. But, with limited distribution channels in Nigeria, that is almost impossible.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com