Youths in Surulere have urged the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, not to interfere in the primary election in the area. They said this ahead of Saturday’s All Progressives Congress Local Government council primaries in Lagos State. Also, an aspirant in Surulere, Idris Aregbe, appealed to the lawmaker to allow residents to decide who they want to rule them. Aregbe said his candidacy represented the yearnings of the people and the need for youths to take the mantle of leadership after years of meritorious service and playing second fiddle. Aregbe, who is also APC Lagos chapter Youth Organising Secretary, noted that his candidacy was proof that Nigerian youths can excel in all areas of endeavours, including that of leadership. They spoke on Tuesday during a mega campaign rally in Surulere and its environs, signalling an end to electioneering campaigns ahead of the weekend’s primaries. They alleged that there have been reports that the speaker wanted to influence the election despite an earlier declaration by the National Leader of APC, Bola Tinubu, that he was not interfering in the election. On his part, Aregbe noted that though the speaker remains the leader in the area, he was the choice candidate of Surulere residents and that has been his motivating factor. “He is our leader, and I’m sure a good leader and speaker is also a listener. And that is what our people is saying, our people have spoken and they have chosen their candidate. I have the people’s support and backing. So, we are expecting the speaker to also let the will of people prevail,” the aspirant said. A member of a youth-based group, Shitta Gents, Razaq Animashaun, appealed to the speaker to show respect for Tinubu by not interfering in the election. Animashaun said, “In Surulere where the youths resoundingly want one of their own, Idris Aregbe, as chairman, Asiwaju has further justified our trust by unmasking the lies been peddled by leaders of the party especially to manipulate the primaries outcome for their preferred candidate. “Youth all over Surulere Local Government Council have resoundingly applauded the decision of APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to ensure a level playing ground for all councillors and chairmanship aspirants.” In solidarity with the aspirant, thousands of youths, women and the aged trooped out with many adorning campaign regalia, including face caps, branded T-shirt, among others with constant cheers at the mention of his name. The campaign train which took-off at Barracks bus stop saw people marching through Shitta, Surulere, Stadium, Akerele, Bank-olemoh, Itire-road, Adeniran Ogunsanya, and Bode Thomas among others.