ANGRY constituents of Oron Federal Constituency, under the aegis of the Coalition for Development, have initiated the process of recalling its representative in the House of Representatives, Nse Ekpenyong, for allegedly failing to speak up against the planned relocation of a Seaport from the constituency. Oron federal constituency is made up of five local government areas, namely: Oron, Mbo, Okobo, Urue-Offong- Oruko and Udung-Uko. Spokesman for the group, Alexander Asuquo, expressed the coalition’s disappointment over the continued silence of the federal lawmaker over the issue. Asuquo said, “Ibaka Deep Seaport and Maritime University are the most important issues on the mind of an average Oro person at the moment. “As important as these issues are, the member representing Oron federal constituency has maintained a conspiratorial silence over them and the silence is killing us. “Oro people have elected him to take the bull by the horns by petitioning relevant authorities to prevent the politically motivated, environmentally destructive and scientifically manipulated relocation of the seaport. “The executive at the federal level has purportedly approved the relocation of Ibaka Deep Seaport to Ibeno. “Other arms of the federal government such as: the legislature and judiciary, still have constitutional powers to question the relocation and the purported approval. “The national Assembly has the power under the constitution to halt the relocation. “All it takes for the issue to be brought to the attention of the national assembly is a motion backed by empirically verifiable scientific, engineering and historical data. Motions do not move themselves. Someone has to move them. This is why he must speak for us or return home. “The quietness and ineffectiveness of Nse Ekpenyong, have huge consequences and we cannot ignore it anymore. We must correct our collective mistakes through a recall.” Attempts to get Ekpenyong’s response were futile. He neither picked nor returned calls made to his mobile telephone number. A response to a text message sent to him on the subject was still being awaited as at the time of filing this report. When contacted, the lawmaker’s Personal Assistant, Mr. Collins Jackson, who opposed the move to recall his principal simply described his boss as a “silent achiever.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com