The predominantly Christian, non-Hausa/Fulani Southern part of Kaduna State and its Northern Muslim Hausa/Fulani part of Northern Kaduna, have agreed to split the state into two. According to both sides, the creation of a new state will provide a lasting solution to bloody violence among them. These were part of presentations during the two-day public hearing of the Senate Committee on the Review of the 1999 Constitution at the late Gen. Hassan Usman Katsina House, Kawo-Kaduna, on Wednesday. The National President of the Southern Kaduna Peoples Union, Jonathan Asake, who defended the memo of Southern Kaduna people, said, “The wish of Southern Kaduna is to have a brand new constitution, not an amended one. “But in the absence of that, we are here to make our inputs as a people who have suffered suppression for a long time. “Southern Kaduna is made up of 67 ethnic nationalities spread in 13 of the 23 Local Government Areas of Kaduna State. It has a land mass of 26,000kmsq with an estimated population of 5.1 million. “We are demanding the amendment of the provision of Section 8 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, which makes it almost an impossible task for the creation of a new state. “We have been demanding a state of our own for over 30 years and Gurara State was among the 18 states proposed in the 2014 Confab report. “We are demanding the creation of the Gurara State after the amendment. This will help in solving the incessant conflicts between our people and the other divide.” Similarly, the Northern part of Kaduna State, under the aegis of the Kaduna Development Elders Initiatives, in their memo signed by the Senator representing Kaduna North Senatorial Zone, Sulieman Abdu-Kwari;  the Senator representing Kaduna Central Senatorial zone, Uba Sani; all the House of Reps members from the Northern Part of Kaduna;  all members of the Kaduna State House of Assembly from northern part of Kaduna, their chairmen in all LGAs and councillors, also canvassed for a new state. Abdulkadir Ahmed, who defended the group’s memo, said, “We are canvassing the creation of a new Kaduna State from the present Kaduna State and we want the constitution of the Federal Republic  of Nigeria amended to make this possible. “Kaduna South has been complaining of marginalisation ever since, even though chiefdoms have been given to them and they occupy 60 per cent of the workforce of Kaduna State. “Let the state be split and if they are asking for Gurara State, let them have it. This will solve all the crises we have been having in this state. “On our part, we are asking for the creation of ‘New Kaduna State’, which will include Kaduna North and Kaduna Central Senatorial zones.  But there should be a referendum for each section of the state to decide on where it wants to belong.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com