Heartland FC goalkeeper, Ikechukwu Ezenwa, says he is eager to reunite with the national team and face Cameroon in their international friendly at the Wiener Neustadt in the Austrian capital, Vienna, on June 4. Ezenwa, who made his international debut against Cameroon, was last invited to the national team in the country’s Africa Cup of Nations qualifier where he was an unused substitution in the 4-2 victory against Lesotho in 2019. Speaking with Sunday PUNCH, the 32-year-old said he was delighted to have been listed in the provisional list, adding that he was ready to give his best to make the final squad to face Cameroon. He said, “It is a thing of joy to be invited back to the national team because it was not an easy task. “I went through a tough time but I just had to be strong mentally to face the challenges because for most people, such thing could keep them down but I never lost focus and I just tried to keep my concentration knowing that is part of football. “But I came back stronger and I had two back to back clean sheets and I am confident that there is more to come. The most important thing is that I am so happy to be back and getting the call-up is a welcome development and I am so happy. “I am going to give my best and that is what I have always done whenever I am being called upon so that the coach will know that I am ready just like I did when I made my debut in the game against Cameroon in the World Cup qualifier in 2017.” He continued, “Playing against Cameroon will be a wonderful one for me, if I am opportune to play because I remembered when I played against them when they were the African champion and we beat them 4-0 and that game showed me to the world and it is a game that I can never forget.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com