T he Pan Niger Delta Forum has said the continued stay of headquarters of International Oil Companies outside the Niger Delta was a disservice to people of the region. The National Publicity Secretary of PANDEF, Ken Robinson, who said this in a statement on Thursday, added that the excuse of insecurity by the oil firms to relocate to Lagos, while it drills oil and makes billions of dollars in the region was not tenable. This is as PANDEF commended the Board and Management of the Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas Limited over Wednesday’s inauguration of its corporate headquarters in Port Harcourt, Rivers State. The PANDEF spokesman said relocating its corporate headquarters to Rivers State, where it operates was commendable and made nonsense of false pretext of insecurity being advanced by antagonists of the region for the IOCs’ refusal to relocate their l headquarters to the Niger Delta. The statement reads partly, “Why would people not be unhappy? The Niger Delta region remains the biggest victim of the disturbing inconsistencies, injustice, and unfairness of the Nigerian state. How can anyone fathom the fact that the region that produces the wealth of the nation has some of the highest levels of youth unemployment in Nigeria? “We wish somebody could look at the nation’s Coat of Arms; we talked about peace and progress; nobody is talking about justice. When there is no justice, how can you have peace?  PANDEF is, therefore, pleased with the management of NLNG for taking the lead in moving its corporate headquarters to the Niger Delta. “We hope that the International Oil Companies and their collaborators would have a rethink, and promptly follow suit by also relocating their operational headquarters to their areas of operation in the Niger Delta Region. No excuse is tenable for their continued stay in Lagos.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com