The Inter Parties Advisory Council has says it welcomes the landmark judgment of the Supreme Court on Friday, which upheld the Independent National Electoral Commission’s power to deregister political parties. IPAC, in a statement issued on Saturday, urged the 74 parties deregistered by INEC on February 6, 2020, to work with the current 18 parties for sustainable democracy in Nigeria, “having exhausted the full circle of jurisprudence.” IPAC, in the statement issued by its National Publicity Secretary, Agbo Major, said it was particularly happy with the speed in determining and delivering judgment on the matter, “which obviously was a clog on the wheel of our preparations for the 2023 general elections.” The council said with the judgment, the coast is clear for the 18 registered political parties to earnestly commence preparations for the forthcoming elections. “Nigerians now know the options available for them as we move towards the elections,” it stated. The statement was titled ‘Deregistration of Political Parties: IPAC Welcomes Supreme Court Judgment…Urges Affected Political Parties to Work with the 18 Registered Parties for Sustainable Democracy in Nigeria.’ It read in part, “This landmark judgment no doubt has further enriched our legal system and deepened our emerging democracy.” Major said the 18 registered political parties were ready to welcome members of the affected parties in “our collective efforts in building a strong, virile, united, progressive, prosperous and equitable democratic nation.” IPAC commended the leaders of the 74 deregistered political parties for towing the path of honour in seeking redress in court, it said is the temple of justice and last hope of all aggrieved people. The council, therefore, urged them to accept the judgment of the apex court with equanimity and join political forces with those in the 18 parties “in redirecting the ship of the Nigeria state from its perilous course.” IPAC stated that the political upheavals in the country demand the collective efforts of all Nigerians in surmounting them and make Nigeria great again.