Super Eagles head coach, Gernot Rohr, has handed first invitations to Feirense 21-year-old midfielder Abraham Marcus and Lorient striker Terem Moffi in his provisional list of 31 players for the high-profile international friendly against five-time African champions Cameroon in Austria on June 4. The friendly is scheduled for the Wiener Neustadt in the Austrian capital, Vienna, from 8.30pm (Austrian time). Midfielder Marcus joined Portuguese second division side Feirense from Remo Stars Academy in 2018 and was only promoted to the first team this season. He is Feirense’s top scorer in the league this season with 11 goals in 24 appearances and was named Liga 2 best player of the month in January. Striker Moffi, 21, was placed on standby for recent AFCON qualifiers against Benin and Lesotho. Also invited is Sadiq Umar, who pulled out of the AFCON qualifiers due to coronavirus restrictions. In the list released on Friday, captain Ahmed Musa, William Troost-Ekong, goalkeeper Maduka Okoye, Kenneth Omeruo, Chidozie Awaziem, Wilfred Ndidi, Oghenekaro Etebo and forwards Victor Osimhen, Kelechi Iheanacho and Samuel Chukwueze topped the names of the invited players. Highly sought after Enyimba energetic forward Anayo Iwuala is also included, following cameo appearances against Benin Republic and Lesotho in the AFCON qualifiers in March. Impressive Crotone striker Simy Nwankwo and Slavia Praha forward Peter Olayinka made a return to the squad. The provisional list of 31 will be cut down to 23, before the Eagles fly to Vienna for the clash with perennial rivals Indomitable Lions. Both teams last met in 2017 during their 2018 Russia World Cup qualifiers with the Eagles coming out victorious 4-0 in Uyo, before a 1-1 draw in the reverse fixture in Yaounde, setting the stage for Nigeria’s qualification for the finals in Russia. THE FULL LIST Goalkeepers: Francis Uzoho (APOEL Nicosia), John Noble (Enyimba), Maduka Okoye (Sparta Rotterdam), Ikechukwu Ezenwa (Heartland)
Defenders: Kenneth Omeruo (Leganes), Kevin Akpoguma (Hoffenheim), Chidozie Awaziem (Boavista), William Troost-Ekong (Watford), Olaoluwa Aina (Fulham), Jamilu Collins (Padeborn), Zaidu Sanusi (Porto), Tyronne Ebuehi (Twente), Semi Ajayi (West Brom)
Midfielders: Oghenekaro Etebo (Galatasaray), Wilfred Ndidi (Leicester City), Abdullahi Shehu (Omonia), Joe Aribo (Glasgow Rangers), Abraham Marcus (Feirense)
Forwards: Ahmed Musa (Kano Pillars), Alex Iwobi (Everton), Sadiq Umar (Almeria), Samuel Chukwueze (Villarreal), Victor Osimhen (Napoli), Kelechi Iheanacho (Leicester City), Moses Simon (Nantes), Henry Onyekuru (Galatasaray), Anayo Iwuala (Enyimba), Peter Olayinka (Slavia Praha), Terem Moffi (Lorient), Paul Onuachu (Genk), Simy Nwankwo (Crotone) Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com