The Neuropsychiatric Hospital, Aro, Abeokuta, Ogun State, was established in 1954. Its forerunner, now called Neuropsychiatric Hospital, Lantoro Annex, located in the Lantoro area of Abeokuta, was founded on the 13th of April 1944. The establishment of the main neuropsychiatric hospital in Aro, according to findings, was prompted by the overpopulation of the Lantoro hospital which was then known as an ‘asylum.’ The mental health hospital was established to provide high-level clinical services needed in an institution designed for advanced training and research on mental health and related disciplines. The Neuropsychiatric Hospital in Aro and its Annex at Lantoro are a national point of reference in mental healthcare in the country. Absconding of patients However, the Lantoro Annex of the neuropsychiatric hospital has, in recent times, been enmeshed in controversy with allegations of laxity in security and an increase in absconding of patients. A source who spoke on the condition of anonymity alleged that absconding of patients from the hospital had become common due to “poor security.” “There has been an increase in cases of absconding. In the last two weeks, we have had six cases of absconding — that is, patients just walking out of the hospital and not returning,” the anonymous source alleged. Allegation untrue —Hospital management Officials of the hospital, however, refuted the allegation of an increase in cases of patients absconding. Speaking with PUNCH HealthWise in a telephone interview, the Provost and Medical Director of the hospital, Dr. Paul Agboola, said that cases of patient absconding at the Lantoro annex was being exaggerated. “To put the records straight, in the last six months, cases of absconding at Lantoro are not more than two. “That is a rough estimate; so, it is not as rampant as it is being said. You can come over and we can show you our books, as we have records and evidence of this. “However, this is a psychiatric hospital, and our patients, due to their mental state, don’t usually see the need to be in the hospital. “So, absconding in a psychiatric hospital setting is not something that is out of the blue. It happens because patients don’t see the need to be in the hospital and as I said, it is because of the mental state that they don’t want to collaborate and cooperate with those treating them. “This is more common when they are in their acute phase when they don’t have insight about their problem. So, they feel their family members are doing them harm by bringing them to the hospital setting like ours,” Dr. Agboola explained. Continuing, he said, “If there is a case of absconding in the hospital, there is a form that we fill to document it and we also notify the police division nearest to us. We report cases of absconding at Lantoro to the Adatan Police division, and if it happens at the main Aro hospital, we report it at the Lafenwa Police unit. “So, we have our records and I know that the number they are claiming is ridiculous. I may be wrong, but I know that it is not as high as people are talking about.” To continue reading this story and more, click here Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com