Nigerians have never been more divided than the present moment. For example, growing up in Ekiti many years ago, life was different. At that time, only the children of schoolteachers and the very rich were privileged to stay home with private teachers doing homework after school. The rest of us – Yoruba, Hausa, and Igbo – were lean, smart, and tight-muscled from playing together (Christians and Muslims) in unbearable hot weather without religious or tribal walls between our families. That is why many Nigerians are horrified today, as I am, by the craziness of our politics, the nonstop resurgence of kidnapping, brutality, killing of innocent citizens and the permanent mute characteristic of the President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), on the invasion of the entire country by Fulani herdsmen; another disgraceful chapter in the history of our Republic. Of course, many of us are not surprised about the tribalism, the political gridlock and the growing tolerance of violence by the present regime that continues to provoke Nigerians to think that we would be happier if we were three countries instead of the present one under Buhari. British archaeologist, army officer, diplomat, and writer, Thomas Edward Lawrence, once said, “All people dream but not equally. Those who dream by the night, in the dusty recesses of their minds, wake in the day to find that it was just vanity. But the dreamers of the day are very dangerous people, for they may act their dreams with open eyes to make it possible.” Unfortunately, the nonstop kidnapping and massacre of innocent Nigerians, including schoolchildren under the current regime had demonstrated to the whole world that in the ranking of all extremist nations, Nigeria not only is in the first place, but the next 20 or so places are unoccupied. It also tarnished the reputation of our democracy on the international stage. Therefore, we must let the President and his advisers understand that the ultimate test of a nation’s character is not how it responds to adversity in war, but how it meets the challenge of peace. Interestingly, a majority of these advisers (military and civilian) have automatically recited the pledge of allegiance to Nigeria thousands of times but sometimes, they forget one simple phrase that is very important to the country: “To be faithful, loyal and honest.” They also forgot that one of Nigeria’s greatest strengths is that we are a diverse nation with many competing convictions and interests. From the days of Chief Obafemi Awolowo, Nnamdi Azikwe and Tafawa Balewa, free and open public contest has brought Nigerians together and not separated us. And there are some basic virtues that all citizens of goodwill in this country always share together: integrity, honesty, fidelity, thrift, hard work, patriotism, diligence, self-discipline, gratitude, and a belief in liberty, justice, religious tolerance and equality of opportunity for all Nigerians. If Buhari cannot ensure these indispensable virtues, he must at least stop weakening them. Agreed that constant renewal has always been part of the democratic experience, but, “renewal” and “change” are not the same. Change that destroys what is good like the present situation in Nigeria under Buhari is bad.  For example, over 100 years ago, German political theorist, Friedrich Engels, inspired millions of people with the slogan, “We must change the world,” just as Buhari promised to change Nigeria in 2015. However, the change Engels advocated left a terrible legacy of death, destruction and brutal repression in its wake. Nigerians are already frustrated under the current regime; and those influential voices in favour of fractionalising the country are right. After all, there were only 51 nations in the United Nations when it was founded at the beginning of the Cold War. Today, there are 193 nations with over 4,000 languages. But the point is that Nigeria has the responsibility and the opportunity to provide the example of how a nation with many tribes, religions, and languages can be held together with great ideas that transcend them all.  That is why we cannot and must not waiver. Let us remind President Buhari about the promise he made to Nigerians in 2015 and demonstrate to the world with boldness that democracy is really, as Abraham Lincoln described it, the last best hope of man on Earth. Gbadebo Adeyeye is proprietor of Crown Heights College, Ibadan