The most prevalent and common trap that many investors fall into is the various investment schemes that are circulated and advertised. Official records suggest that nearly 30 million people are subject to investment scams every year worldwide, there may be a lot of cases that are underreported due to widespread corruption. Recently, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission in Nigeria has been put on high alert surrounding the various investment schemes floating around in the country. This alert is in light of the filed complaints and petitions by a large number of investors from the Nigerian community. The age-old strategy of low risk-high ratio has attracted quite a few investors who have fallen prey to these scams. There are just so many opportunities available online that investors are confused and spoilt for choice. Lack of technical knowledge is the reason why many people become victim to scams. There are a lot of ways you can verify the information of an investment opportunity before investing your money into it but here is a list of the 11 most common scams that take place and why you need to be aware of them. Ponzi/Pyramid Schemes: The core idea of a Ponzi Scheme is to generate a high return of 50 per cent within a little period like 45 days or any lower period. The initial investors receive a return on their investment every month, this return is basically a part of the sum which they have invested which are being given back to them in instalments. So basically, your money is given back to you in parts by fooling you into believing that it’s a great investment. While you impressed with the returns, you encourage your family and friends to get onto this scheme. As new investors keep pouring in, their investments are given to the earlier investors. It’s a never-ending cycle where one person’s money is taken and given to another person and so it goes on. Forex Scams: The Forex industry is one of the most regulated fields in finance. This is largely due to high volumes of losses that investors can incur within a matter of seconds. According to Trade Forex Nigeria, “Since forex is an organised industry with high volume & participation, many scams happen mainly via Fake Schemes, Fake brokers, unregulated brokers, Fake Signal providers and Fake Forex Robots. “Since there are heavy regulations in this industry, there are millions of offshore or unregulated brokers who offer services in countries they are not allowed to offer their platform on .” As a result of this, if an investor has any grievance or complaint, their local authority will not be able to do much as the broker has its office in another country like offshore destination which is lax in regulations. There are various tricks that offshore/unregulated brokers do to scam investors of their money, the most common being disenabling withdrawal or delaying it which forces the investor to trade more and more and lose all the investment. The goal of a Forex scammer is to either make you burn your money or freeze your withdrawals and run away with your money. This is the reason why you to check the local authority and find out if Forex brokers are registered to offer services in your country. In Nigeria, there are no regulated forex brokers, so traders must check carefully and only choose a forex broker in Nigeria that is regulated with European regulators like FCA or CySEC as they have stricter rules for their brokers and investor protection. Besides the above, the most common forex scams usually happen via fake schemes like pyramid schemes labelled as lucrative forex investment. So, beware of them. While some scams happen via fake signal or robot providers who offer traders untested calls or software’s to make automated orders in forex market which don’t work, they will say you will get returns by using their tools as they are making huge returns using this technique but in reality, they are fake, and traders lose their money. Advance Fee Scam: Scammers will always look to hurry the investor so the investor doesn’t have enough time to make an informed decision. They do this by offering exciting incentives and offers which will expire in a few minutes or hours. Investors are so attracted to these high incentive schemes that they want to take full benefit and make advance fee deposits without enquiring about other details. So, if you are making an investment and you get such an offer, think twice about the actual idea behind such incentives. Unregistered Investments & Brokerages: Every broker or company that seeks to offer financial services to people in Nigeria then they have to seek the permission of the concerned authority and getting a valid license. Any mutual fund schemes will have to seek approval from the SEC before it can be offered to clients, the same process is for stockbrokers who have to get the necessary license from the Nigerian Exchange Group formerly NSE. This is a mandatory rule which has to be followed by all brokers and companies. So, if your broker or any company offering such services is not listed as authorised in your country, then it’s best that you don’t deal with such brokers. It’s best if you approach the local authority or other investors who can help you with finding out the list of licensed brokers in your country. Fake Promissory Notes: In the case of a promissory note, a company seeks investment from an investor for which they will provide a promissory note stating that they will pay it back within a specific time period while paying a certain percentage of interest. There have been so many promissory notes scams that millions have lost their money to this scheme. The tactics that scammers’ users with promissory notes are the same as Ponzi Scheme where they use someone’s own money to pay them back. This is why you need to verify the information on the note and whether are the information mentioned therein is true and authentic. Before you make such an investment, you need to ensure yourself that it’s a legitimate offer. As per law, such offers to the public by a company must always be made via an approved mechanism like listing of Corporate Bond on NGX and getting approval from SEC. Fake Investment Schemes related to precious metals, commodities, securities & cryptocurrencies: This is the day and age of digital currency, in the last few months there have been numerous instances where investors have become millionaires in no time. Investors who have invested amounts as little as $100 have made thousands in a matter of few weeks. This new trend has left the whole world chasing it. This is exactly why investors need to careful as investment schemes in crypto or other instruments involves high risk. The cryptocurrency market is highly unregulated as authorities are still figuring out how it works. So, until the market for this industry is fully regulated, please look away as there are more chances for you to lose your money than make money. If you are interested in investing in securities or commodities, you must always invest via brokers approved by regulated exchanges in Nigeria like NGX, LCFE, AFEX etc. Get Rich Quick Schemes: What is the common trait of every investor? It is the idea to get rich and get rich quickly. Schemes are specifically targeted towards people who want to get rich with no effort whatsoever. This is the reason why they will invest everything they can to speed up the process. Scammers offer high returns in a very quick time and a chance to double or triple the investment. All get rich quick schemes are too good to be true because they are designed that way. If you pay careful attention, you can easily spot such a scheme. Boiler Room Scams: The idea behind this entire scheme is a fake setup. There is a fake office with fake employees with fake investment opportunities. They do all their business online as well as telephones but in reality, a company doesn’t even exist. They invite investors to invest in their company and provide all fake documents. Just because a company has a good website, don’t be fooled. Check with the CAC if a company like that is registered and has all the required licenses. Pump & Dump Schemes: Under this scheme, a group of investors are targeted and offered stocks of companies at very low prices. As more and more people buy stocks, the price keeps increasing. The scammers generally own a large part of the stock which is why if they decide to sell the stocks, the stock price will hit rock bottom. So, the scammers wait for the stock to reach its peak and then dumb everything. This way the stocks are worth zero and the scammers don’t have to give any money back to the public. Fake Signal Sellers: Their main job is to offer a sound investment plan based on past history and records. They approach investors and share investment plans after doing all research. They charge a fee for selling such signals. The problem with signal sellers is that there is no surety with their signals. You are not even sure that the signals are correct. Many scammers sell fake research data and signals, investors depend on such signals and lose all their money. Fake Investment Education Gurus: No one can have a sound investment plan as there are so many factors that can influence an investment. The job of investment gurus is to provide you with all information to help you make the perfect investment plan. Oftentimes these plans have no research to them whatsoever. There is not even a guarantee. So why even take these courses/plans? In reality, their investment plan is nothing but a waste of time. If their investment education is so good then shouldn’t they be millionaires by now? It’s easier said than done. Protect yourself by checking these warning signs Always look for warning signs discussed above before investing like high returns, low risk, insider information, pressure to buy now, seller not registered. The list above should give a broad idea of all the scams that happen around you every day, but this list does not have all information you need. You need to do research on your own before investing in anything. The first and foremost step you need to do about an investment scheme is to check if they are regulated and licensed. Proceed only if they are, otherwise chuck those schemes. Your local authority and regulators such as SEC should give you a good guide on how to approach these investment plans. So, start there and you will slowly find your way up.