When people talk about praying for Nigerian leaders, the first point that comes to my mind is to ask for courage for anyone who can be so called in the country. In my opinion, after vision and the essential know-how, the courage to execute regardless of resistance, is the next most important  requirement of effective leadership. In a country where leadership has become a cheapened commodity, a majority of those who get into office collude with the people, (the preponderance of who do not know better and are disabled by poverty), to sabotage society by promoting populism over sustainable development, chances for widespread development wherein every member of society shares from the prosperity possible is dependent on these three factors. Here is an example of the point I am trying to make. Sometime during President Olusegun Obasanjo’s second term between 2003 and 2007, he initiated a pension reform programme which upset the Nigeria Labour Congress in some respects. Strikes were called but Obasanjo stuck to his guns. The Pension Reform Act 2003, which introduced a contributory principle that has largely reduced the suffering of pensioners in Nigeria today was thereafter birthed. Had Obasanjo succumbed to pressure and failed to go ahead with this reform, the story would have been different today. That, regrettably, is the situation with the downstream sector of the oil and gas industry today. Successive governments caved in to the opposition of labour groups and reversed attempts at deregulating the sector. Today, the country has reached a juncture where it will have to swallow this bitter pill regardless of how much it hurts the people. Had this decision been taken before now, the question of inefficiency in the sector would be behind Nigeria. Talk about a stitch in time saving nine. This is the same way Nigeria has continued to postpone the Dooms Day in its civil service. This is the crux of the Steven Oronsaye Committee set up by President Goodluck Jonathan in 2011. Now, 10 years on, the 800-page document produced by the group, as apt as it is believed to be to the need of the Nigerian civil service, has still not been implemented. And even if government would make believe that considerations for the welfare of the people is responsible for the reluctance associated with implementing the report it would be dishonest by half. The truth is that government is hampered by the inability to face the backlash that such “unpopular” decisions will foment. It is essentially a question of lack of courage! That is one front where Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State stands taller than many of those who lead in Nigeria. And you know this is no fluke because it is not the first time he would show this daring capacity for reform regardless of what people think. In 2018, el-Rufai embarked on a controversial revamp of the quality of instruction in Kaduna State-owned schools. About 22,000 out of 31,000 primary school teachers in the state failed tests of competence, which the state government set for them. They were all sacked in spite of the opposition. But then, 25,000 competent and willing teachers were employed and with specific emphasis on English, Mathematics, Science and ICT. Before the state arrived at the point where teachers were tested however, the governor started the intervention in the educational sector where most of his colleagues usually stop: the improvement in infrastructure and teaching aids. Dividends from such investments can be quiet but penetrating and impactful on the future of the state, if not the country as a whole. And all of this speaks to the fact that this governor does not just swing ideas on the people but he plans! One understands that he began to give signals for the current exercise, which the state government describes as rightsizing rather than retrenchment, since the teachers initiative was done with.  It started with the offer of the state government to support the capacity building for the workforce. A collaboration with the Nigerian Teachers Institute was reportedly announced and the state government promised to defray half of the cost of self-improvement courses taken by its staff. More recently, opportunities were said to have been offered to civil servants who worked in areas government planned to eradicate to improve themselves and change cadre. Again, a few people seized the opportunity but it didn’t make sense to many others. And here is the legendary thing about the civil service in Nigeria, it is the place of rest rather than work for many compatriots, who see it as their own slices of the national cake.  Here is what Chief Afe Babalola, SAN, has to say about his time in the civil service in his 2008 autobiography, Impossibility made possible: “… after some two years, I changed my mind. The civil service was not a place for me. The work on which there were as many as 10 civil servants could be done quickly and more effectively by one person in a private business. A letter which took a fortnight to write in the civil service could be written in one hour in the private sector. An agreement which took one month to prepare would take less than 30 minutes in a private lawyer’s office… all that was important was to register appearance in the office. Thereafter, the civil servant would disappear for the next three or more hours. There was a system by which the personnel officer kept a confidential file in which the so-called performance of a civil servant was written. It was an invitation to sycophancy. Most civil servants who wanted to be promoted did many unbecoming things, including eye service, in order to gain the favour of the personnel officer who would write their confidential report.” We must all agree that this scenario painted of what the civil service looked like decades ago is bad, but things are even worse now. All around Nigeria, we have largely bloated, unmotivated, unteachable, and pathologically entitled civil service structures unable to drive modern day governance. Yet, no country can grow beyond the quality of minds populating its civil service. Therefore, government at all levels in Nigeria must take the bull by the horns and reform their civil service. In doing this however, there is a need for wisdom or what motivational speakers may refer to as emotional intelligence. This is more so in today’s Nigeria that is battling with different levels of crime, most of which were inspired by poverty, unemployment, and lack of functional education.  It is even more significant that Kaduna is one of the worst-hit states by banditry in the country. A government should therefore tarry in the execution of plans that send people out of their means of livelihood, especially when they do not have ready alternatives. It is comforting that el-Rufai has promised to work with the Pension Fund Administrators to expedite payments of contributory pension benefits, and offer opportunities for those affected in its agricultural and entrepreneurship development schemes to those affected by the exercise. But, is it true that 90 per cent of teachers sent packing in 2018 are still unable to access their severance pay as alleged by the President of the Nigeria Labour Congress, Ayuba Wabba? If that is so, the government would have contributed to the current lack of confidence in its reform and must do everything to address this delay. More importantly, a government must never be too tired of talking to its people.  Even when going forward despite their opposition to initiatives, leaders must continue to engage and make the citizens to understand that certain hard decisions must be taken to secure the future. Those in government, especially in a democracy, must continue to see it as a service, which they solicited and took oath to provide for the people whether they are appreciate in the immediate or not.  There is nothing like a government gaining the understanding of most of its people in the implementation of major policies like this. Then, they become participants, collaborating, owning the programme, and walking together into the future. Even when government disagrees with the citizens, the people who would one day catch on the vision of progressive leaders still deserve their respect as the employers of those who lead them. That is the only missing link one sees in the current Kaduna situation and the governors should do well to reverse it without complicating the already tensed situation in the state. How much trouble can one state take at one? Adedokun tweets@niranadedokun Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com