The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria, ICAN, has expressed its commitment to human capacity development in a fast changing business world. In a statement on Tuesday, it said this was important as the institute launched its e-learning on Monday. As stakeholders in capacity development, the institute stated that the advent of COVID-19 had accelerated the need to make knowledge transfer available in more flexible forms as a globally-recognised professional body. This was to ensure that its members and others who would demand its cutting-edge trainings were given as much easy access as possible to learning platforms. The President, ICAN, Dame Joy Adewuyi, who highlighted the benefits of the e-learning platform, stated this in her welcome address on Monday while launching the platform. She said, “The launching of this e-learning platform would not only introduce further flexibility in our trainings but also encourage the expected desire for lifelong learning by professionals. “In addition, it has been proved that more sustainable learning is achieved through e-learning as the model has significantly lower environmental impacts (carbon emissions). “This has become necessary as the institute seeks to sustain its contribution as a player in the SCG by reducing its learning related carbon footprint. “With the unwelcome arrival of COVID-19, continuing professional development programmes migrated to the zoom platform with impressive attendance. “The ICAN e-learning platform, however, surpasses our earlier adopted zoom model,” She said it provided access to content that was relevant and specific to users’ needs, roles and responsibilities in professional life, segmented to facilitate assimilation of new knowledge and allow flexible scheduling of time for learning. It also contained creative instructional methods and techniques for better learning experience, she said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com