An environmentalist, Akintunde Disu, has recalled his three-day, 60km walk to the Point of No Return, the site on the coast of Badagry, Lagos State, where slaves were historically transported across the Atlantic Ocean until the 19th century, expressing optimism that the site would be rehabilitated. The founder of Pop Beach Club, a Tarkwa Bay, Lagos-based eco-resort and social enterprise, narrated his experience in a February 27 blogpost on Medium. He told Sunday PUNCH in a phone interview that the journey, as arduous as it was, remained significant as the historic Gberefu Island, better known as Point of No Return. The site, with its iconic two slanted poles facing the Atlantic Ocean, was a major slave port after it was opened in 1473 during the Transatlantic Slave Trade era. Nigerian historians had noted that as many as 10,000 slaves annually were shipped from the island to the Americas between 1518 and 1880. Disu said, “I just felt it had to be done. I thought we had to experience it. It’s a very powerful thing to walk across your own country. That walk itself is one of significance, so I thought it should be done. The walk is important. It’s being able to spend time in nature and meet people. “It’s like the (65km) Jesus trail (in Nazareth, Israel). It can become something quite powerful. It’s the journey that is really interesting and the reason all of this exists.” Asked if he was disappointed by the state of the structure at the Point of No Return, he simply said, “It can be fixed. All of these things will be fixed in time. It’s a beautiful structure. I’m sure it will be fixed.” Despite the strenuous walk, he said, arriving at the Point of No Return is a “very emotional” experience. Disu noted that his trip back was made by boat on a channel which he said continues all the way to Ilorin, Kwara State. Disu stated, “It is one of those walks that when you do, you and Google Maps become friends. You start seeing how much we are connected as a country before the roads. It’s not an easy thing for anybody to do. I would not advise anybody to do it. It’s a lot for anybody to do because it is challenging. “I took enough garri to last three months. The villagers were very kind, they fed us every night and the food was delicious so we didn’t even need to use our garri, although we still ate garri. Garri is the best thing when you’re walking. It gives you energy. “If you are thinking of sleeping on the beach and you take a tent but not an air mattress, you don miss road. None of the locals spoke Yoruba (or English). I look forward to being able to do it in generations to come.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com