Following two gas explosions, which claimed the lives of an infant and four others last week in Abeokuta, Ogun State, the family of one of the victims has called on the state government to investigate the causes of the incidents. PUNCH Metro had last week reported a gas explosion on Wednesday in which an infant and two others were burnt to death, while a technician was topping up the gas of a refrigerator at Oke-Egunyan, along the NTA Road in Abeokuta. Twenty-four hours after, another gas explosion occurred on Mercy Road, Panseke, Abeokuta, where a technician, Sanya Shonde, was injured and later had one of his legs amputated. The injured technician, who was also topping up the gas of a faulty refrigerator when the explosion occurred, passed away on Saturday and was buried on the same day. However, the Shonde family has implored the state government to investigate the recurrence of gas explosions, describing it as more than a coincidence. Speaking on behalf of the family, Olalekan Junaid stated that the gas explosion, which claimed the life of his uncle, was not due to lack of professional capability, adding that the deceased had been in the business for over 35 years. He also said the deceased was popularly known for his expertise as he worked with big hotels within and outside Ogun State. Junaid urged the government to investigate the explosions so as to prevent future recurrence. He said adulterated gas might be in circulation and the matter must be quickly investigated to avert more casualties. Junaid stated, “We want to call the attention of the government to the incident, because we don’t know when it will happen in another house. “Sanya Shonde had been in the business for over 35 years. His business name is Hope. His office is located at Onikolobo, Abeokuta. “He was my uncle. I grew up to know him doing the job. He consulted for different big hotels in Abeokuta, maintaining their air conditioners and others. He was actually not a small person. He was a professional of over 35 years.” When asked how he heard the news about his uncle’s death, Junaid said, “I got the news via my uncle, a younger brother to the deceased. He called to inform me that he had been rushed to the hospital due to gas explosion, while he was working. Of course, our initial reaction was to save his life. “Then we started doing all the things the doctor asked us to do. He tried to recover after 24 hours, but he relapsed again before he passed away. So, it was shocking. “We want proper investigation to be done, because he was not the only one that lost his life last week. I heard that there was a similar incident somewhere else in Abeokuta. A close friend of mine, who was also in the same business, lost his life. His name was Sola. He died in an explosion too. And the two of them were not related. He was also refilling gas when the explosion occurred. My uncle was also refilling when it happened.” Junaid added, “So, proper investigation should be conducted, because the situation is dangerous.  Because, if someone refills his car air conditioner gas and there is an explosion inside the car in a gridlock, that will be a big disaster. “The government should investigate and know where the gas is coming from. We have nothing to hide. They should carry out an investigation so that somebody else will not become a victim.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com