THE last may not have been heard about the shutting down of the Adoration Ministry, Enugu, Nigeria by the Spiritual Director, Rev Fr Ejike Mbaka. Mbaka had on Tuesday morning announced the immediate shutting down of all activities in Adoration Ministry till June 10, 2021. READ ALSO: I was written off but never gave up – Iheanacho In a release Mbaka personally signed, he said he would be embarking on a private prayer retreat probably in compliance with the directive by his Bishop, Most Rev Callistus Onaga, which had ordered him to proceed on immediate and private prayer. The statement partly read, “He directs that members of the ministry are to observe this period of his retreat as they used to do during the usual January break of the ministry by praying at their homes, being charitable and fasting according to their ability.” Mbaka had while addressing his parishioners on the Adoration ground shortly after a violent protest at the Bishop’s Court, said safe for their protest, he would have been kept incommunicado by the Bishop. He said the plan was to keep him for 30 days. He said a lot of issues were presented against him after which the church leadership, led by Bishop Calistus Onaga, told him that he would remain indoors for one month, a period that would allow him to pray and meditate over his activities. The priest said he requested to be allowed the opportunity to address his parishioners after which he would shut down, “but they said no.” Bishop Onaga had declared Mbaka supporters’ action in destroying church property as sacrilegious, and ordered for fasting and prayer in all the Catholic parishes, churches and congregations for “atonement and reparation.” However, following condemnation that trailed his comment and actions of his supporters, Mbaka, on Sunday apologised to the Catholic Church and Bishop Onaga for the desecration of the church. When contacted, the Communications Director, Catholic Diocese of Enugu, Rev Fr Benjamin Achi, said that the church would speak officially after the seven-day fasting and prayer the Bishop had declared on the development. “Certainly, the church is going to speak on the development but that will be after the fasting and prayers our Lordship has declared,” Achi said. Meanwhile, a source close to the Bishop told our correspondent that the last of the episode, had not been heard. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com