It is often said that the media hardly celebrates its heroes while hailing feats of others in style. Call it a myth; it got bust up on Friday at the MUSON Centre, Onikan, Lagos, when captains of the industry pulled out all the stops to honour nine late revered veteran journalists. Tagged “An Afternoon of Tributes for Departed Media Leaders,” elites from all walks of life graced the historic event organised by the Nigerian Press Organisation and the Broadcasting Organisation of Nigeria. On the political front, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos, his Ekiti State counterpart, Kayode Fayemi, and Deputy Governor of Ogun State, Noimot Salako-Oyedele, watched in admiration as media leaders took turns to pay tributes to their departed colleagues. The encomiums aptly captured renowned American screenwriter, Felix Adler’s description of heroes as those who kindle a great light in the world and set up “blazing torches in the dark streets of life for men to see by.” Those honoured included former Lagos State Governor and pioneer President of Newspaper Proprietors’ Association of Nigeria, Alhaji Lateef Jakande, NPAN Life Patron, Mallam Isa Funtua, former Editor of Sunday Times, Chief Gbolabo Ogunsanwo, ex-General Manager, Lagos State Broadcasting Corporation, Mr Bisi Lawrence fondly known as Biz Law, former Managing Director and Chairman, the News Agency of Nigeria, Mallam Wada Maida. Others were former Editor, Daily Express, Mr Eddie Aderinokun, former Publisher of Leadership Newspapers, Mr Sam Nda-Isaiah, former Director-General, Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria, Mr Ben Egbuna, and former Minister of Information and Culture, Tony Momoh. Paying tributes to the media legends in his keynote address, Osinbajo described them as true giants of their craft whose significance in public life loomed larger than their callings. He said democracy in Nigeria was born of sacrifices made by courageous veteran journalists both living and dead, noting that such selfless service should never be forgotten. Osinbajo said, “Let me begin by stating how privileged I am to be here at this unique gathering to honour the memory of recently departed leaders in the media. The roll call of these leading lights that have left us is a truly impressive one and it can be said without exaggeration that eternity has claimed a rich harvest. These men were remarkable and outstanding – giants of their craft in every right.” Jakande, grandfather of journalism In his tribute to Jakande, former Governor of Ogun State and NPAN life patron, Chief Segun Osoba, described the late nonagenarian as a man of many firsts – being the first president of the Nigerian Guild of Editors and NPAN as well as the first African to be the chairman of International Press Institute comprising editors and publishers across the world. Osoba recalled Jakande’s role in the formation of NPO in 1978 in reaction to a decree issued by the then Head of State, General Olusegun Obasanjo (retd.), to set up a press council controlled by the government. As a former managing director and editor-in-chief, an editorial writer and famous John West columnist, Osoba recounted how Jakande-led Nigerian Tribune gave the government of the time a run for its money. He said Jakande contributed immensely to journalism in Nigeria but did not have the time to document his contributions. “In fact, his success and contributions to journalism were far higher and bigger than the contribution he made in government. I want to appeal to you (Jakande’s wife who was at the event) and your family to open Alhaji’s library in his house – a whole room full of documents. “I urge the media to sponsor researchers to go into the library and unravel histories on the formation of NUJ, NGE and NPAN. “In his days, Tribune was a newspaper that no government anywhere in Nigeria could afford to play with. God bless the memory of the grandfather of journalism, Alhaji Lateef Jakande.” Biz Law, a trailblazer Group Managing Director, Daar Communication Plc, Mr Tony Akiotu, spoke overwhelmingly of the late 87-year-old Lawrence, a foremost sports journalist and former Vice Chairman of the Nigeria Football Association fondly called Biz Law, saying he was a trailblazer, an inspiration, a loyal and reliable mentor. Akiotu remarked, “Biz Law was a man of matchless courage, integrity and honour. With Biz Law, there were no cutting corners. He had respect for details and would settle for nothing less than excellence. Biz Law’s contribution to sports remains legendary, with indelible footprints on the sands of time. “He supervised the hiring of former Super Eagles coach, Clemens Westerhof, who became the most successful coach for Nigeria, winning the African Cup of Nations in Tunisia and qualifying Nigeria for the FIFA World Cup, USA ’94, for the first time.” Egbuna, a thoroughbred journalist In his tribute, the Chairman, Channels Media Group, John Momoh, said the former FRCN DG was one of the finest crops of broadcast journalists and media administrators Nigeria had ever produced. Popularly referred to as Oga Ben, Big Ben or Great Ben, Momoh described Egbuna as a thoroughbred journalist and one of the forerunners of the Nigerian broadcast industry whose footprints could be traced in both the private and public media space. He added, “Ben (Egbuna) believed in doing the right things and doing things right. His unique quality of hard-nosed disposition against ineptitude, corruption, and bootlicking stood him out from the crowd. Most times, his disposition got him into trouble but such troubles are the ways of a few good men who would never give to the spoils of office; a few good professionals who spoke truth to power; a few good professionals and accomplished broadcasters who believed that journalism should be practised with the finest grain of integrity, spoken through a truth-oozing microphone and a pen that drips of balance, fairness, accuracy and all the age-old ethos of our dear profession.” Multitalented Aderinokun The Chief Executive Officer, Diamond Publications Limited, Mr Lanre Idowu, gave hints about the remarkable life the former Editor of Daily Express led. A multitalented artist at home with journalism as he was with politics, sports, music, and poetry, Aderinokun was said to be “free-spirited in his disposition, fertile in his imagination, and careful in speech.” “He was a man who was concerned with standards. He was a noble soul, who recognising his limitations, had no qualms leveraging the strength of his friends and relatives—the young and the old—in the effort to make the world better than he met it. And for this, he will continue to occupy a warm place in our hearts,” Idowu added. Maida in media and govt A former Chief Press Secretary during the regime of Major General Muhammadu Buhari and NAN MD, Maida shone both as a government official and media businessman. The Publisher of ThisDay Newspapers, Mr Nduka Obaigbena, spoke glowingly of him while narrating their encounters in the 1980’s. He said, “I started working for Time Magazine in New York and we were doing supplements on Nigeria, Morocco, Zimbabwe and other countries. I then approached Wada (Maida) for the supplement on Nigeria and the issue of transition to democracy. On August 25, 1985, Wada organised my interview with Major General Muhammadu Buhari. I then flew to New York to produce the edition. “On August 27, after we had laid out the interview, I got a call from Editor of Time that there was a coup in Nigeria and that Buhari had been toppled. I tried to call Wada but his line wasn’t reachable. The following day, I placed a call to Dodan Barracks and Wada picked up. I said, ‘Wada you were still there’ and he replied, ‘of course.’ “He was the Chief Press Secretary to IBB (Ibrahim Badamosi Babangida) for about a month and he helped me organise the first interview with General Babangida. “He went into private business and was one of the early investors in Daily Trust Newspaper. He was also a key investor in People’s Daily. He was always effective but quiet. We will miss Wada.” Ogunsawo, a powerful writer It was Consultant, Guardian Newspapers Limited, Mr Lade Bonuola, who read Ogunsanwo’s tribute at the event. He recounted how Ogunsanwo wormed his way into journalism in 1970 during a holiday while he (Ogunsanwo) was studying at the University of Lagos. “He was at Daily Times for a job to get pocket money. He did an expose on passport racketeering at Kakawa and the government took actions,” Bonuola said. He added, “Ogunsanwo was later made Editor of Sunday Times where he proved himself. He was a powerful and impressionistic writer, painting pictures and writing with severity to put public officials on their toes. Gbolabo Ogunsanwo not only wrote powerfully but also had sense of humour with which he laced his writing skill. He will be ever missed.” Funtua, a media blessing Contrary to his perception by many people as a formidable member of a cabal influencing Buhari’s administrative decisions, Chairman, Vanguard Media Limited, Mr Sam Amuka, described the late Funtua as a successful businessman in the building construction industry and the Nigerian media. Amuka, who delivered his tribute through the Provost, Nigerian Institute of Journalism, Mr Gbenga Adefaye, maintained that “Ismaila Isa (Funtua) spent his life servicing other people’s lives and organisations. Look, if Ismaila was not your friend my friend, you miss o.” “For example, my driver and cook used to look forward to his visit. He was a blessing to the Nigerian media. Thank you, dear Ismaila. I miss you and look forward to meeting you sometime soon,” he remarked. Nda-Isaiah, a bridge builder The youngest among the honoured departed media leaders, former Publisher, Leadership Newspapers, Nda-Isaiah, was described by the Editor-in-Chief of the paper, Mr Azubuike Ishiekwene, as a man of big ideas, who invested himself in speaking truth to power. He added, “Sam Nda-Isiah was a bridge builder and an ardent believer in one united and strong Nigeria. Not that he underestimated the challenges of multi-ethnic nations like Nigeria, but he believed that given the country’s potential and with the right leadership, there was nothing that Nigeria could not achieve. He despised mediocrity and went the extra mile to reward hard work and creativity. These are values in acute short supply as a result of which Nigeria is in its sorry state today.” Momoh, warrior for press freedom In the words of reputable veteran journalist and Director, May Five Media, Mr Ray Ekpu, Momoh, also a former Editor of Daily Times, was a man of dignity and simplicity whose contributions to journalism were unquantifiable. He added that Momoh was meticulous, thorough, methodical and professional to his finger nails. “Prince Tony Momoh was born into the large family. His father had 48 wives and 257 children. So, Tony Momoh needed no lecture on the meaning and positivity of diversity which has become an ugly word in Nigeria today. “Without any fear of contradiction, Prince Tony Momoh our journalism legend, our indefatigable warrior for press freedom has contributed immeasurably to the Nigerian journalism. Sadly, one thing he was not able to make possible was the prolongation of his life beyond 81 but his achievement will prolong his life in our hearts,” Ekpu said. Also in attendance at the event were Etsu Nupe, Alhaji Yahaya Abubakar, Chairman Emeritus, Punch Nigeria Limited, Chief Ajibola Ogunshola, Chairman, Punch Nigeria Limited, Mrs Angela Emuwa, Chairman Leadership Group, Mrs Zainab Nda-Isiah, Publisher, The Guardian Newspapers, Maiden Ibru, and Founder, Zenith Bank, Mr Jim Ovia. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com