Whether we like it or not, whether we want to talk about it or not, we cannot shy away from the fact that there will be elections come 2023 and a crucial one for that matter. The 2023 elections especially the presidential election would be the most ‘interesting’ in the history of Nigeria for the very fact that people seem to have come to the realisation that it is time they took their destiny in their own hands and not wait for any miracle anywhere. The ongoing security challenges like kidnappings, banditry, Fulani herdsmen killings, unknown gunmen and any other name that has been bandied about and the rate of poverty that has enveloped the country these past years have somewhat become a wake-up call. If you like, something like a turning point in the minds of the ‘ordinary’ Nigerian so much that it would be difficult for people not to talk and think about the 2023 general election especially the presidential election. As far as the first citizen of the country’s position is concerned, we need a very serious-minded person, someone who knows his onion in all facets of administration and is concerned about the wellbeing of the masses; a father who is compassionate about his children’s welfare; a vibrant personality who can still hold his own in terms of vigour; someone who does not give a damn about religion, tribe or any other sentiment that has bedevilled the country in the past. Someone who has vast knowledge in almost everything, but majors in a particular field, a someone who is not afraid to implement the right policies irrespective of the reactions. Nigeria needs a right-thinking person devoid of nepotism, who sees ahead and acts accordingly; a person with vision, not hallucination; someone whose heartbeat is to make Nigeria a safe haven for her citizens first, then for visitors which in turn would allow the economy thrive and boom without interruption. This country has been in turmoil for a very long time, going from the very height of glorious crescendo to awful diminishing returns that we have become a mockery to all and sundry. Our citizens cannot raise their head high anywhere due to the fact that people who are supposed to be our leaders are bringing shame to us by looting what is supposed to belong to all of us and taking it to other countries to keep in their treasures all in the name of acquiring wealth, buying expensive houses abroad. This is done while our infrastructure lies in abject decadence. We have been like this for God-knows-how-long, with ‘leaders’ who do not visit our hospitals and therefore do not care about how good or bad they are; leaders who do not ply our roads so, the deplorable state of the roads has never been their problems. They seldom visit our markets and even if they do, their bottomless pocket does not allow them to know that the next person beside them cannot afford even a rubber of garri, so they are careless about the situations ravaging us. We need people who are serious about making Nigeria a better place for us, to start coming out now; enough of pretences, make yourself known now so we can assess you and monitor your movements and actions. Declare your intentions quick as the 2023 general election begins fully in 2022 and that is around the corner. Don’t come out in a microwaved form giving us fire brigade campaign with a microwave manifesto. Nigeria as a nation has become a subject of ridicule that we are almost always measured with bad things; poverty capital, corruption, unemployment, killings and what have you. It’s high time we retraced our steps, revamped our economy and rebuilt the confidence other countries of the world had in us. That will happen if we get it right in the forthcoming elections by having the right person with a sound mind as the pilot. We cannot afford to make mistakes again. David Owaboye President, Initiative for Global Change, Surulere, Lagos 08033252129. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com