ONDO State Governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, on Monday appealed to the state chapter of the Nigeria Labour Congress to shelve its planned protest against an alleged assault on a pregnant worker by one of his aides. The NLC had initially commenced the protest to the governor’s office against the alleged assault on one of its members by the Senior Special Assistant to Governor on Special Duties and Strategy, Dr Doyin Odebowale, but withdrew half way following the intervention of the state Deputy Governor, Mr Lucky Aiyedatiwa. The governor’s aide, Odebowale, had denied the allegation, saying he never assaulted any worker. Addressing the workers on behalf of the governor, Aiyedatiwa apologised to them (workers), disclosing that investigation had begun on the allegation. He said, “Your protest march is very valid and not even the governor is against lawful protests. But we must all be mindful of the present situation which is the precarious security. “This administration is one, even though there are several persons with assigned responsibilities. In the course of our individual duties, however, there are also areas we consider difficult terrains where law enforcers like the official in question contend daily with agents that are against change. “We are not holding brief for anyone because the matter is already being looked into, but we can assure you that the state government has made it abundantly clear that all officials of the government are civil in the enforcement of our laws. None deserves to be dehumanised. “While we appreciate your lawful steps and share in your pain as a result of the perceived or alleged assault, you should also be mindful of those loitering around the corner to hijack your genuine protest.” Responding on behalf of the workers, the state Chairman of the NLC, Mr Sunday Adeleye, urged the governor to caution Odebowale, saying, “He is not above the law; he must be cautioned.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com