The Edo State House of Assembly on Monday passed a law ceding the administration of the state-owned Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma, to Governor Godwin Obaseki through what it called ‘Special Intervention Powers for Visitor to the University.’ The move was sequel to the consideration of a bill presented by Obaseki to the Aseembly. At the plenary on Monday, the Majority Leader of the House, Henry Okhuarobo moved a motion that the house dissolve into committee of the whole and suspended House Rules 27, 42 to 48 to consider the bill and the motion was seconded by the deputy speaker, Roland Asoro. At the clause by clause consideration, the bill conferred powers on the visitor to intervene in the administration of the university if the management of the school failed and unable to direct the affairs of the institution just as it also empowers him to suspend any or all substantive principal officer(s) of the university from office for a period covered by the special intervention powers. The bill empowers the visitor to set a special intervention team, comprising experts to manage the affairs of the university during the period of the special intervention. The bill also conferred on the visitor powers to appoint interim principal officers for the day-to-day management of the university and approve all financial expenditures over and above the approval limit of the special intervention team. The Chief Whip of the House, Emma Okoduwa said the bill was timely following the crisis in the University. He said, “As we speak, there is a crisis between the management and the governing council. We were privileged to visit the school on oversight functions and we discovered that politics have been brought into the administration of the university.” The speaker, Marcus Onobun, thereafter directed that clean copies be sent to the governor for his accent. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com