Recently, the family of a chef, Peju Ugboma, accused a private hospital in Lagos of negligence which led to her untimely death. Ugboma was said to have been admitted into the hospital on April 22, 2021, and was advised to undergo an elective surgery for fibroid. However, Peju eventually bled to death at the hospital after the surgery went awry. A similar case happened when a young lady, Omolara Omoyajowo, after undergoing treatment for ulcer and malaria at a hospital in Ogun State was transferred to a public hospital where she was confirmed as ‘brought-in-dead’. The two cases expectedly generated a lot of reactions from well meaning Nigerians, with many asking, “Are we truly safe”? In a system where private hospitals charge exorbitant fees, yet still fail to provide adequate care for the sick, what’s the hope of the common man? What about public hospitals, some may ask? It is no longer news that many people no longer have faith in public hospitals. With poorly paid healthcare workers and inadequate equipment, it is not surprising that patients die from the smallest of ailments. Sicknesses, such as malaria and typhoid, that are easily treated in saner climes, have killed several people in my dear country. It is because of this that many troop to private hospitals, yet even those no longer offer the much needed succour for sick Nigerians. It is particularly sad that even the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), travels to London (United Kingdom) for treatment. This was despite his campaign promises in 2014/2015 to curb medical tourism in the country. Pray tell, if the president does not have faith in Nigeria’s healthcare system, what is supposed to be the lot of the average citizen? Imagine the number one citizen of the country enjoying qualitative healthcare in a conducive and comfortable environment, while the people he is meant to serve are dying in large numbers. However, I refuse to accept that we are doomed as a people. The sorry state of affairs can be corrected if only the leaders of the country are ready to do the right things. The COVID-19 pandemic offered us a golden opportunity to overhaul our healthcare system but we did not take advantage of it. It goes without saying that health facilities should be improved upon. Many healthcare workers in public hospitals need proper training and reorientation. Many of them appear unsympathetic and don’t value the Hippocratic Oath they took to save lives first before any other consideration. Stories have been told of how patients were taken to hospitals on emergencies, yet nurses and doctors did not attend to them speedily, leading to death in some cases. Many individuals have complained of time mismanagement and corruption on the part of staff in public hospitals. However, for healthcare workers to give their best to their jobs, it stands to reason that they have to be properly remunerated. They should also be provided with the right equipment to do their jobs. It would not do anybody any good if citizens develop apathy towards the healthcare system and resort to self-treatment. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com