The House of Representatives has resolved to investigate the racketeering of train tickets, especially on the Abuja-Kaduna route despite the introduction of online purchase to check sharp practices. At the plenary on Tuesday, the House urged management of the Nigerian Railway Corporation and Secured 18 Company Limited to strengthen their internal mechanism, with a view to eradicating ticket racketeering. The House also mandated its Committee on Land Transport to investigate the matter and report back within two weeks for further legislative action. The motion, moved by Mr Zayyad Ibrahim and unanimously adopted by the lawmakers, was titled, ‘Need to Investigate the Automated E–Ticketing Process of the Nigerian Railway Corporation for Abuja-Kaduna Train Services.’ Ibrahim said there had been a tremendous increase of passengers at Idu and Kubwa train stations in Abuja, as well as at Rigasa Station in Kaduna, due to the increased security challenges on the Abuja-Kaduna Expressway. The lawmaker also noted that the increase in the number of passengers led to ticket-racketeering, an ugly practice that led to the arrest of five suspected train ticket racketeers in 2019 by operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. Ibrahim recalled that the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, officially launched the automated e-ticketing system on January 21, 2021, to address complaints of ticket racketeering. The lawmaker, however, said, “The House is concerned that ticket racketeering, which the e-ticketing system sought to eradicate, is still going on unabated as tickets can no longer be adequately accessed online due to the mischievous activities of some people who racketeer the tickets and resell to passengers at exorbitant prices.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com