Media personality, Denrele Edun, has been in the public glare for a while and is not a stranger to many. Edun, who will clock 40 in two weeks, told Saturday Beats that his mother wanted him to get married so eagerly that she bought him diamond rings to propose to a lady. He said, “I am not interested in the institution called marriage. I can say this because I am in control of my decisions. I set my principles, follow my guiding philosophies and do only what I want to do. I have not been lucky with love. I give out a lot of love but I do not get the same measure back. It is very hard to find people who genuinely reciprocate the kind of love I give. “I know people will question my sexuality because we live in a society where people are constantly under pressure and different forms of discrimination. Recently, I saw a story claiming that I was in a relationship with a male artiste but I don’t react to such claims anymore. I just want to be myself. I will not get married and still be unhappy. I am currently dating myself. My mother once bought me a diamond ring. She just wanted me to settle down. I have sacrificed a lot to take care of my family. I have been shouldering responsibilities since I was 11 years old.” Edun also stated that he was sexually active and had once thought of leaving the entertainment industry because of a woman. He said, “I am very sexually active. In the past, I confused sex with love or affection. But, I am at a point where I can draw the line. I once dated someone that I was ready to give up the entertainment industry for. I was so obsessed with her but she said it would be unfair to take that from me. Now, I have discovered inner happiness and peace of mind because God has used me to break the chains of poverty in my family.  I will be hard on myself if I say I am not fulfilled or satisfied.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com