FORMER Ogun State Peoples Democratic Party governorship aspirant, Oladipupo Adebutu, has said the general insecurity across Nigeria was sufficient proof that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.)- led government has failed. He said this while speaking with newsmen, at his residence in Iperu – Remo, on the sidelines of the 3rd Annual Ramadan Lecture and Iftar organised by Lado Muslim Affairs’ Forum. Adebutu, a former Chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Rural Development, also called for an urgent review of the constitution with a view to finding a permanent solution to agitations by various groups for secession. He said, “Over time, we have always advocated for a need for that and there have always been excuses that this can be done by the National Assembly. Yes, there can be some discussions at the National Assembly, but I truly believe it goes beyond the National Assembly. “This is a fundamental stakeholder’s issue. It is a very germane issue that goes to the root of the society, it goes beyond the National Assembly. I also believe it should be all encompassing, far and beyond just elected members of the National Assembly.” According to him, Nigeria can take a cue from the developed world by amending provisions of its constitution to take into cognizance current realities. While delivering his lecture, the Chief Imam of Olabisi Onabanjo University Muslim Community, Dr Abdulhakeem Akanni, expressed similar views. He described the myriad of challenges confronting Nigeria as “mere spiritual war,” and asked people to stop blaming Buhari for Nigeria’s woes. Quoting several Quran verses to back his points, Akanni said, “We are all culpable in the rot. Politicians, the police, teachers, clerics are also not spared out of the rot.  We are all ungrateful to God. “What we are battling in Nigeria is a spiritual war. Stop blaming Buhari for Nigeria’s woes. You say you want to impeach him? Will you go and bring an angel to govern Nigeria? Unless we change our ways, this is how we will continue.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com