The United Nations Peacekeepers Day is a day set aside to celebrate the works of United Nations Peacekeepers. The day, celebrated May 29 annually, is also a day to pay tribute to those who have contributed to maintaining peace in the world, including those who died in the process. As the celebration is not really a popular one, many have questions concerning what the day is really about and its significance. In this piece, The PUNCH has answered questions concerning what you should know about the celebration. Who are the UN Peacemakers? The UN peacemakers are people from UN member states that serve under the United Nation to restore peace and security all over the world. UN peacemaking missions bring civilian and military personnel together, from diverse backgrounds and all works of life, charged to protect the weak and promote peace in troubled states. Asides from monitoring ceasefires and protecting civilians, the UN peacekeepers also promote rule of law, protect human rights, ensure free and fair elections, and minimize conflict-inducing occurrences. They are mostly deployed to states during crucial moments of violence, war, or discrimination. When did the scheme begin? Established on the 29th of May 1948, the first UN peacekeeping mission involved the deployment of UN military observers to monitor the Armistice Agreement between Israel and its Arab neighbors, forming the United Nations Truce Supervision Organization. The mission sets the pace for 72 other UN peacekeeping operations which have been carried out since then with more than one million men and women being deployed to save lives and protect countries from conflict. As of 2021, UN revealed that its Peacekeeping Unit deploys more than 89,000 military and civilian personnel in 12 operations. What makes the celebration significant? The International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers, celebrated 29 May annually, is an opportunity to celebrate the unsung heroes that risk their lives to restore peace and order in different countries. Therefore, the day is set aside to celebrate both the civilian and military personnel that have contributed to peacekeeping in UN member states. It is also a day to offer tribute and honour more than 4,000 peacekeepers that have lost their lives since the establishment of the mission. In 2020, UN recorded 130 deaths of UN peacemakers. What is this year’s celebration about? The 2021 UN Peacekeepers Day is focused on the challenges and threats face by peacekeepers, especially in this period of the COVID-19 pandemic. The theme for this year’s day is, ‘The road to a lasting peace: Leveraging the power of youth for peace and security.’