The Kaduna State Government, on Friday, said some bandits attacked communities in Igabi, Giwa and Jema’a local government areas of the state, killing four persons with scores sustaining injuries. The Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr Samuel Aruwan, said at least 30 cows were also rustled in the separate attacks. Aruwan, however, was silent on when the incident took place, adding that an attempt to burn a police post was repelled in Jema’a Local Government Area of the state. He also said no fewer than four persons sustained injuries in the various attacks, giving the names of three of the injured as Mustapha Ya’u, Bilyaminu Saidu and Bilyaminu Abubakar. The commissioner said, “Security agencies have reported that bandits invaded Zangon Aya town in Igabi LGA. According to the report, two residents, Falalu Dari and Sabiu Idris, were killed by the bandits. “The bandits also attacked Rugar Delu, a settlement on the fringes of the town and rustled about 30 cows belonging to one Delu Bafilata, a herder. Delu sustained gunshot injuries to the chest and is receiving treatment in hospital. “In another reported incident, bandits invaded Ungwan Murtala in Yakawada, Giwa LGA and shot one Inusa Ibrahim dead. In Godogodo village of Jema’a LGA, bandits attempted to attack a police outpost but were effectively repelled by the personnel. However, one Ayuba Madugu was killed by the gunmen.” The commissioner added that the bandits’ attack on the Godogodo village almost snowballed into an ethno-religious crisis but was averted by the security operatives. He added that Governor Nasir El-Rufai commiserated with the families of the deceased and wished the injured a speedy recovery. Meanwhile, gunmen suspected to be herdsmen have killed two people in Rikwe-Rishe, Kpatenvie village of Kpachudu community, Bassa LGA of Plateau State. The victims, identified as Mr Shedrack Zehwie, 20; and Mrs Ladi Geoffrey, 25, were said to be at home when the gunmen stormed their compound around 9pm on Thursday and attacked them, killing them. The National President of the Irigwe Development Association, Ezekiel Bini, who confirmed the killings to Saturday PUNCH in Jos on Friday said, “The two victims were farmers. “The woman was at home while the man who came to visit a relative was just relaxing in the compound when the gunmen appeared suddenly and shot them dead on Thursday night. It’s really sad.” The General Secretary of IDA, Dickson Auta, who spoke at the burial of the deceased at Rikwe-Rishe village on Friday, lamented the killing of the two Irigwe youths and called for the immediate stop to open grazing of cattle in Irigwe land. According to him, apart from the destruction of farmlands and crops, and illegal grazing, the Fulani herdsmen have been lying in ambush and killing the Irigwe people. The paramount ruler of Rigwe Nation, the Brra Nggwe Rigwe, Rev Ronku Aka in a remark, also frowned on the continuous violence in his domain. While sympathising with the people, he emphasised that the land bequeathed to the Rigwe people by their forefathers could not be forcefully grabbed, irrespective of attacks and other strategies deployed against them. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com