The Imo State Commissioner of Police, Abutu Yaro, on Saturday, ordered police officers in the state to increase their firepower against bandits in the state. The police boss, who spoke while launching the Operation Search and Flush of the command, charged the officers to strive to win every gun duel with the enemies of the state. He said, “Improve and increase your firepower. If you have a problem with your shooting ability and efficiency, indicate now so that we will take you to a CSP (Chief Superintendent of Police) who has been sent from the IGP (Inspector General of Police) from Abuja. He will put you through so that you will become as efficient as you should be. “I need results that I can be proud to report to the IGP and the governor, who is the Chief Security Officer of the state. You must understand that it is no longer business as usual. You should be able to demobilise them, take their armoury to improve our own armoury. Not the other way around.” Yaro said he would not tolerate any form of professional misconduct from any police officer. The CP said, “You must put in your best. For now, you are on secondment to the office of the Commissioner of Police. Remember, there will be no police without the people. You must therefore put in your best in terms of precision, professionalism and commitment in making sure that the enemies of the state are defeated. “Let me warn you that I will not fail to invoke the appropriate police code in disciplining any erring officer. I need nothing but the best. I need results. My phone numbers are everywhere. If I get a complaint that you are extorting or engaging in any unprofessional conduct, I will not fail to invoke the appropriate sanctions against you. “As your Commissioner of Police, I have a right of supervision over you and your conduct. I need a new spirit of achievement. You must be result-oriented and driven. Go and recover more arms from the bandits. We must neutralise the bandits and add their armoury to our own. You must maintain visibility and presence in Imo. I want operational patrol and not ceremonial patrol.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com