Suspected herdsmen on Sunday attacked some Ebonyi communities, killing at least 30 persons. This is just as 12 people were reportedly killed in attack on several communities in Ado LGA of Benue State by people suspected to be herdsmen. READ ALSO: Police kill Ahmed Gulak’s assailants in gun duel In Ebonyi State, it was gathered that the gunmen attacked Odoke, Ndiobasi and Obakotara communities in the Ebonyi Local Government Area. Sources in the area said the gunmen arrived at the communities around 3am on Sunday. The communities share boundary with the Ado LGA of Benue State, which has been having land dispute with the Ngbo clan in the Ohaukwu LGA of Ebonyi State. A resident of the area, Uchenna Okpokwu said the invaders came with guns and machetes. He said, “People that were skilled in Ndiobasi are up to 30 according to the video clips on the incident. Odoke and Obapta are very far and nobody has been able to enter the two villages. Another resident of the area, Onyibe Jeremiah, lamented that no action was taken to protect the communities despite warnings of the herdsmen impending attacks. Hé said, “One man from Enugu State who saw the herdsmen when they were coming into the Ebonyi villages made a voice call that went viral, but he was ignored.” The Ananda Marga Universal Relief Team said two children were killed while being taken to hospital for treatment. A statement by AMURT West Africa, said, “Many were carried all the way to Ohagelode Health Centre. The Uloanwu Ambulance was called and 11 people –   six adults and five children – were transported to Alex Ekwueme Federal University Teaching Hospital, Abakaliki. Sadly two children already died after reaching AEFUTHA.” Chairman of the Ebonyi LGA, Chinyere Nwaogbaga, confirmed the incident, adding, “The state governor directed that we take injured residents to hospital and also give them relive materials.” Also in Benue State, 12 people were reportedly killed in attack on communities in Ado LGA suspected herdsmen. Residents said some of the communities attacked were Tologa, Ndi-Obasi, Odoken in Ekile  ward of Ijigban district of Ado LGA. Confirming the attack, House of Representatives member representing Ado/Okpokwu/Ogbadibo Federal Constituency, Francis Agbo, in a WhatsApp message sent to our correspondent, said residents of Obakoto, Odirewu, Offianka and Nwedoga communities had deserted their homes. Agbo said, “Izzi settlements of tologa, Ndi-Obasi, Odoken in Ekile Ward, Ado LGA, are badly affected. Now the Izzi people in Obakoto, Odirewu, Offianka, Nwedoga in Ijigban have deserted the areas for fear of invasion.” The Chairman of Ado LGA, James Oche who confirmed the simultaneous attacks on the five communities in Ekile ward,  said 12 persons were killed. Oche  said, “I suspect that the herders came on reprisal because of one elderly Fulani man, Isah Muhammed, who lived in one of the affected communities was recently killed by members of the Indigenous People Of Biafra members who  crossed over from Ebonyi State to Ado in Benue State. “The IPOB members killed the Fulani man in anger that their people were being killed in the north. “According to information I have, 12 people were  killed during the attack that started between Saturday and early hours of today (Sunday). Several other people are still missing.” Effort to speak to the Benue State Police Command, Police Public Relations Officer, DSP Catherine Anene, did not yield result as calls to her mobile phone rang out. Meanwhile, suspected Fulani herdsmen attacked Ekpoffo in Eha-Amufu Community, Isi-Uzo Local Government Area of Enugu State on Friday and slaughtered four persons. About seven others were reported to sustained serious injuries. A community source, who goes by the name ‘rainmaker,’ told our correspondent that the victims were killed early hours of Friday by the suspected herders. A commissioner in the Enugu State Cabinet, who hails from the area but didn’t want his name disclosed, confirmed the attack. He however, regretted that the killer herders later escaped with their animals after committing the crime. The state Police Public Relations Officer, DSP  Daniel Ndukwe, said, “My brother; I am busy but send me text message.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com