The Lagos State Government on Thursday inaugurated a 16-man Technical Committee on Real Estate Regulation. The government explained that the panel would facilitate the restoration of investors’ and public confidence in the state eeal estate sector. The committee members, which had been approved by Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu, comprise three commissioners, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Housing, Mrs Toke Benson-Awoyinka, insurance experts, banking professionals, and lawyers, among others. Speaking during the inaugural meeting of members of the committee, the brainchild of the Lagos Real Estate Regulatory Authority, Benson-Awoyinka, said the committee would design a policy and fiscal framework to institute and promote global best practices in the state. She said one of the lessons from the COVID-19 pandemic was  the need to develop a robust housing policy, as well as curtail the malpractice in the real estate sector. She added, “To achieve this, the committee will set up a comprehensive system and framework, which will prioritise the development of a fiscal responsibility and transparency model to promote the inflow of local and international funding required to confront housing deficit, among others. “The committee will also set up a governance structure which will oversee the entire real estate framework and stakeholder engagement in the state to minimize trust deficiency.” In his remarks, the Commissioner for Finance, Dr Rabiu Olowo, who is also a member of the committee, said that beyond building roads and bridges, the promotion of policy formulation for ease of doing business is also important in addressing the challenges confronting the state. The Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr Moyosore Onigbanjo, urged the committee members to see the task ahead of them as efforts towards revamping the entire real estate practice in the country through Lagos State. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com