Trials of the alleged Taraba kidnap kingpin, Hamisu Bala (Wadume) and his co-defendants; the corruption case involving a former Minister of Petroleum Resources, Diezani Alison-Madueke; and the corruption case against a former Chairman of the defunct Pension Reform Taskforce Team, Abulrasheed Maina, are among prominent cases currently stalled at different courts as a result of the ongoing industrial action by members of the Judiciary Staff Union of Nigeria. The PUNCH had reported on April 13 how the strike which started on April 6 had resorted to overcrowding at police detention facilities across the country as it prevented the police and other law enforcement agencies from arraigning suspects in courts. Another investigation by this newspaper had also revealed that lawyers are also feeling the impact of the strike with some of them already sacking their members of staff. Latest findings indicated that with the continued closure of courts nationwide, some celebrated cases are currently stalled. In the case of Wadume, terrorism charges were preferred against him and his co-defendants at the Federal High Court, Abuja. Recall that the last time the case came up was on March 9, 2021. At that time, the trial judge, Binta Nyako, adjourned the matter till May 18 (Tuesday) for defendants to open their defence or file no-case submission. The Federal Government had arraigned Wadume and his co-defendants on June 8, 2020 on amended 13 counts of terrorism, kidnapping and other related offences. His co-defendants are Aliyu Dadje (a police Inspector), Auwalu Bala (aka Omo Razor), Uba Bala (aka Uba Delu) Bashir Waziri (aka Baba Runs), Zubairu Abdullahi (aka Basho) and Rayyanu Abdul. In the case of Alison-Madueke, the last time the case came up was on March 3 at the Federal High Court in Abuja. The trial judge, Ijeoma Ojukwu, adjourned till May 17 (Monday) for the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission to appear and report to the court its efforts to enforce the criminal summons issued against the former minister since July 2020. The EFCC has been trying without success to get the former minister, believed to be in the United Kingdom, extradited to answer for the money laundering charges instituted against her. The commission had on November 11, 2018, filed 13 counts of money laundering against the former minister before Justice Ojukwu. She was accused of, among other charges, unlawfully taking into her possession, $39.7m and N3.32bn when she reasonably ought to have known that the money formed part of the proceeds of unlawful activities. Also, the money laundering trial of a former top officer of the Nigerian Air Force, Umar Mohammed, at the Federal High Court in Abuja on March 25 was adjourned till April 27. At the last sitting, the Federal Government had tendered three bags of naira and other different types of foreign currencies as evidence in the case. Mohammed was a member of the defunct Presidential Investigative Committee on Procurement of Arms and Equipment in the Armed Forces, set up by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), in 2015. The case is before Justice Inyang Ekwo. Also being stalled is the case of Maina and his son currently before Justice Okon Abang of the Federal High Court, Abuja. The court had on March 17 fixed April 13 to resume Maina’s trial and fixed May 18 for the EFCC to adopt its final written address on the case of his son, Faisal, to enable the court to deliver judgement in the matter. 21-year-old Faisal who is facing a three-count money laundering charge, had since June 24, 2020, failed to appear before the court for his trial, a development that led to the revocation of his bail. Justice Abang fixed April 13 to resume hearing on the separate 12-count money laundering charge the EFCC preferred against Maina and his firm, Common Input Property and Investment Limited. EFCC had alleged that Maina used his firm and laundered over N2bn, part of which he used to acquire landed properties in Abuja. The Minister of Labour and Employment, Chris Ngige, did not take his calls on Monday when our correspondent made attempts to know from him how far with government’s efforts to meet the striking judiciary workers’ demands and end the strike. \Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com