The speakers of the South-West states legislatures have asked governors in the region to come together to procure security drones and helicopters for surveillance purposes in order to fight the growing insecurity in the area. The speakers stated this in a communiqué made available to our correspondent after their meeting. [READ ALSO] Sex slaves: Police bust Ogun hotel after Saturday PUNCH investigation, rescue 22 The Chairman of the conference, Bamidele Oloyelooun, signed the communiqué made available to our correspondent in Ibadan, Oyo State, on Sunday. They also asked the governors to empower rangers in their states to begin aggressive combing of forests to dislodge criminals occupying the areas and perpetrating criminal activities from there. The communiqué read, “The efforts of the state governments in the region in addressing the security challenges are yielding positive results, while calling on the Federal Government to take more proactive steps to urgently restore peace to the troubled spots as well as the entire country. It is also imperative that government should mete out appropriate sanctions and send strong warning to people behind the various dastardly acts. “The forum noted further and advocated that the governors of the South-West states should come together to procure drones and at least three helicopters for the aerial surveillance of the entire region. “They should adequately empower the forest rangers in their states to embark on aggressive patrol of the forest areas. This step will no doubt change the security architecture of the South-West states. “The laws establishing the Western Nigeria Security Network (Amotekun Corps) as passed by the Houses of Assembly should be strengthened to give room for the recruitment of able-bodied unemployed youths, as this will help in surveillance, information and intelligence gathering. “The present Nigeria police are doing their best in securing the nation, but the Conference insists on the establishment of state police to complement the efforts of the security agencies.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com