The higher percentage of younger workers that have joined the Contributory Pension Scheme will help to sustain the system, the National Pension Commission has said. The commission disclosed in its report for the fourth quarter of 2020 that 77 per cent of the contributors were below 40 years of age. Part of the report read, “A review of the sectorial distribution for the quarter ended December 31, 2020 showed that 42,455 (or 62 per cent) of the registrations were from the private sector. “The public sector accounted for 22,718 (or 33 per cent) of the contributors registered while the Micro Pension Plan had 3,654 (or 5.3 per cent) of the RSAs (retirement savings accounts) registered during the period under review. “A breakdown of the RSA registrations during the quarter showed that about 77 per cent of those that joined the CPS were below 40 years of age. This points to the increasing sustainability of the CPS, as the younger generation are actively being enlisted into the scheme. “Further analysis on the gender distribution revealed that 63 per cent of those that registered were male, while 37 per cent were female.” The latest figures from the commission showed that total assets under the CPS rose to N12.34tn as of the end of March. According to the figures, N8.5tn of the funds was invested in Federal Government’s securities in March. Other investment portfolios where the funds were invested included domestic and foreign ordinary shares; corporate debt securities comprising of corporate bonds, corporate infrastructure bonds, corporate green bonds and supranational bonds. The funds were also invested in local money market securities, comprising of bank placements, commercial papers and foreign money market securities. The Pension Fund Administrators invested the rest in mutual funds, comprising open/close-end funds, REITs, real estate properties, private equity funds, infrastructure funds, cash and other assets. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com