The Commissioner of Police in Lagos State, Hakeem Odumosu, says there is no kidnapping in any part of the state though the Command has been tackling cases of ‘one chance’ robbery. He made the declaration on Thursday while reacting to report making waves on social media that kidnappers have taken over the Admiralty Way in Lekki, Ozumba Nbadiwe Way, Lekki-Ikoyi Link Bridge and some parts of Lekki Community in Lagos. The CP, in a statement signed by Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Muyiwa Adejobi, said the report was “not true as the command has not recorded any case of kidnapping in the state in recent past”. The statement titled, ‘No Kidnapping Recorded In Lagos State… CP Odumosu’, partly read, “The only isolated incident recorded by the command on 18th May, 2021, which went viral, was a case of ‘One Chance’ , reported by one Adegoke Joel, m, on behalf of one Adenike Kosoko, f, who boarded a private car at Admiralty Way, opposite Zenith Bank, Lekki on 18th May, 2021 at about 7.30pm. “Unfortunately, the two male occupants of the car turned to be ‘One Chance’ operators that drove her around Lekki and Ikate, Lagos before she was dropped. “In the course of investigation, it was revealed that she was dropped by the culprits same day before 12am at Ikate Area, Lagos State. “The hoodlums only used her ATM card to withdraw the sum of One Hundred and Ten Thousand naira (N110,000) from her bank account.” The statement added, “The Command therefore wishes to state categorically that it was a pure case of ‘One Chance’ which the command has been tackling in the state and more efforts are being channelled towards eradicating the menace and other social vices in the state.” Odumosu reportedly ordered that the matter be transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department, Panti, Yaba, for discreet investigation as he promised to fish out the culprits in no time. “The police boss further appealed to Lagosians to always patronise Lagos State branded and registered commercial vehicles to avoid any of such incident in the state,” the statement concluded.