The International Maritime Organization has called on Nigeria and other member states as well as relevant organisations to strengthen security in the Gulf of Guinea. IMO said in a statement on its Twitter handle that the call was necessitated by the number and severity of attacks on the Gulf of Guinea region, which it said threatened the lives and well-being of seafarers and the safety of shipping. It said, “In a resolution on recommended action to address piracy and armed robbery in the Gulf of Guinea adopted by the Maritime Safety Committee, IMO calls on member states, national authorities, the United Nations and other relevant organisations to consider strengthening law enforcement to arrest and prosecute pirates in relevant jurisdictions, in accordance with international law and national legal frameworks. The Coastal States are urged to harmonize criminal penalties. “Member states, national authorities, the UN and other relevant organisations are urged to support and encourage wider participation in the Gulf of Guinea Maritime Collaboration Forum as well as other platforms, such as the G7++ Friends of the Gulf of Guinea.” The IMO said this would help improve maritime security and safety in the region and facilitate the strengthening of cooperation mechanisms for regional maritime patrol and protection. The organisation also emphasised the need for capacity building and funding. It said, “the resolution requests IMO’s secretary-general to make full use of technical cooperation funds to support capacity-building in the region to tackle piracy and armed robbery and to look at creating a common platform for information sharing between existing mechanisms (these include MDAT-GoG, the NIMASA C4i-Centre, Regional Reporting Centres, the ICC IMB Piracy reporting centre and relevant responding law enforcement entities). “Member states, international organisations, and relevant stakeholders are urged to contribute financially the IMO West and Central Africa Maritime Security Trust Fund.” The PUNCH had reported recently that the International Maritime Bureau, in its report for the first quarter of 2021, described the Gulf of Guinea as the world’s piracy hotspot. The report also listed Apapa in Lagos, Brass in Bayelsa, and Bonny Island in Port-Harcourt as high-risk waterways. Corroborating this in the new call, the IMO said, “Based on reports submitted to IMO, to date, in 2021, 23 incidents have been reported in the West Africa region.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com