The Enugu State Police Command on Saturday said it has arrested three criminal suspects for armed robbery and car snatching. A statement by the State Police Public Relations Officer, Daniel Ndukwe, said the suspects, who were arrested with the collaboration of the Neighbourhood Watch Group in different parts of the state had confessed to the crimes. Ndukwe said that two vehicles, three firearms, one live cartridge, two daggers, one mobile phone, and other incriminating items were recovered from the suspects. He said, “On 17/05/2021, our operatives attached to Abakaliki Road Division, acting on intelligence, arrested in Ishielu L.G.A. of Ebonyi State, one Chidiebere Okoye aged 22 and Ede Ifeanyi aged 25, both of Onuasata, Enugu. “Their arrest led to the recovery of one (1) locally-made pistol, one (1) dagger, and an ash-coloured Toyota Camry car with registration number: GGE 547 GT, that the duo and gang members at large allegedly snatched from their victim at gunpoint on 10/05/2021. “Similarly, Police Operatives attached to Nsukka Urban Division in synergy with Neighbourhood Watch Group, on 13/05/2021 at about 23:56hrs, intercepted a red-coloured Toyota Avensus car with Reg. No. XFST 968 AA, suspected to have been stolen, along Urban Girls High School Road, Nsukka. “The suspects on sighting the operatives abandoned the vehicle and escaped. Upon a thorough search of the recovered vehicle, two (2) cut-to-size single-barreled guns, one (1) live cartridge, one (1) TECNO Phone, and other incriminating items were further recovered. “Also on 13/05/2021, at about 1600hrs, acting on credible information, our operatives attached to Awkunanaw Police Division arrested one Miracle Ogba (18), following a report that armed robbers had invaded a shop at Garriki and stabbed one of their victims after robbing them of cash, mobile phones, and other personal effects. The suspect confessed to the crime, while a dagger allegedly used to stab the said victim, who was rushed to a nearby hospital and is responding to treatment, has been recovered.” The PPRO, however, said a discreet investigation had begun to fish out the fleeing criminal suspects, adding that all the suspects would be charged to court on the conclusion of investigation. He said the Commissioner, Mohammed Aliyu, had applauded the operatives involved in the operations and charged all personnel of the Command to remain resolute and resilient in the quest to root out unrepentant criminal elements and their activities in the state. Ndukwe quoted the Commissioner to have asked the personnel to sustain the tempo to actualise the mandates of the newly flagged-off “Operation Restore Peace” for the South-East, by the Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba. “The Commissioner also enjoined the peace-loving people of the state to continue to support the Police by remaining law-abiding, vigilant, and promptly report suspected criminals and acts of criminality to the nearest Police Station or by calling the Command’s Emergency hotlines on: 08032003702, 08075390883, 08086671202 or 08098880172.” See photos of the suspects below. 