The organised labour in Ekiti State on Monday rejected the decision of the state government to suspend implementation of the minimum wage and consequential adjustment, saying it would not subscribe to any move that would impoverish workers. The group, comprising the Nigeria Labour Congress, the Trade Union Congress and the Joint Negotiating Council, also rejected “any stoppage by the state government of subventions to the subvented institutions in the state”, and demanded the release of the subventions to the benefitting tertiary institutions. The group made the position known in a statement titled, ‘Organised Labour in Ekiti State rejects withdrawal of minimum wage and consequential adjustment,’ and signed by the chairmen, Kolapo Olatunde (NLC); Sola Adigun (TUC); Kayode Fatomiluyi (JNC) and their secretaries, Mrs Akinyemi Taiwo (NLC); Lawrence Kuloogun (TUC); and Gbenga Olowoyo (JNC). About a fortnight ago, stakeholders in the state, based on Ekiti State’s dire economic situation, resolved to suspend the minimum wage consequential adjustment to senior civil servants and downward review of subventions to institutions. But the labour leaders, while expressing the position of the workforce, stated, “Workers of Ekiti State rejected any withdrawal of minimum wage and consequential adjustment payment in the state. The payment is a product of a process that has been signed into law. “In the same vein, the Organised Labour rejected any stoppage of subventions to all the subvented institutions in Ekiti State. The Organised Labour views any attempt under any guise to further impoverish the living standard of workers and all vulnerable groups in Ekiti State as inhuman and unacceptable. “To this end, the State Organised Labour further advocates the inclusion of workers on Grade Level 13 to Grade Level 17 in the implementation of the consequential adjustment payment, among other arrears of workers’ welfare. “Flowing from the above, the leadership of the Organised Labour has promised the entire workers that there is no way we will compromise on the welfare of workers in the state, hence, workers should be rest assured of our commitment at all time to their yearnings and aspirations.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com