TWENTY-TWO years after transiting from military dictatorship to civilian rule, the lofty hopes of liberty, security and economic wellbeing kindled in Nigerians have turned to ashes. In every aspect of life, retrogression, poverty, insecurity, alienation, mutual antagonism, and despair stare them in the face. Amid this, politicians and the elite sustain a charade of normalcy seemingly anchored on a constitution, the trappings of democratic institutions and the will of the people. In practice however, state capture is everywhere evident and the “dividends of democracy” — equality, freedom, justice, and prosperity — are painfully elusive to the overwhelming majority. Unless the people promptly and resolutely bestir themselves to take back their power, hopelessness may soon turn to destitution. At his inauguration as the first president in the Fourth Republic on May 29, 1999, Olusegun Obasanjo believed that democracy would “ensure progress, justice, harmony and unity and above all, to rekindle confidence among our people that their conditions will rapidly improve, that Nigeria will be great and become a world player in the near future.” Today, many are asking, who benefits from the democratic experiment? Clearly, only a few. The vast majority are left behind. Poverty has been rising steadily, from about 52 per cent of the population in 1999 as tracked by the Center for Global Development, to 69 per cent by 2010. In 2018, Nigeria displaced India as the world’s poverty capital with 86.9 million poor and over 100 million persons projected as ‘extremely poor’ in 2020 by the World Poverty Clock. Corruption has moved from gigantic to monstrous with the country’s reputation described as “fantastically corrupt” by a former British prime minister, David Cameron. The World Data Atlas said unemployment rose from 3.79 per cent in 1999 to 10.6 per cent by 2010, 17.5 per cent by 2017, 22.6 per cent by 2018 and hit 33.3 per cent in 2020. About 23.8 million persons are jobless, while the unemployment rate among the youth has hit 53.4 per cent, says Trading Economics. Businesses have been hit hard. The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria reported that 820 member companies were shuttered in the first nine years of civilian rule. By 2009, said the Nigerian Textiles Manufacturers Association, whose members once directly employed 350,000 persons, 38 firms had shut down as successive administrations presided over worsening operating conditions headlined by power shortages, high borrowing rates, bureaucratic bottlenecks, restrictive policies, poorly controlled imports, and smuggling. On all human development indices, the country has crashed. Worse is the abject failure of the chimera of democracy to secure lives and property, promote inclusion and common nationhood among the disparate ethnic nationalities, regions and faiths or organise the polity along the rational, natural lines of a true federation to reflect its diversity. Distrust, disenchantment, and anger at the ruin have seen an effusion of agitation for restructuring and separation by different segments amid mutual antagonism and the threat of conflict. Lacking consensus, competent leadership at every level and effective institutions, the country is more insecure than ever before and staggering towards disintegration. The sorry situation has led some to question the efficacy of democracy in building a strong, cohesive, and prosperous society. But the fault does not lie in democracy; it lies in the faulty foundation on which the country is built, in the failure of institutions and in the degenerate, visionless leadership that emerged since 1999. Most especially, it lies in the apparent contradiction that while all definitions of democracy anchor its practice on popular participation, the Nigerian variant is exclusionary, alienating rather than involving the people. All the institutions that should make democracy work for the common good have failed. Instead of applying rational decision-making in public policy, base cronyism, ethnicity, and religion underpin all aspects of national life. And painfully, the well-educated and imaginative citizen feels the oppression of the mediocre mentality, which surrounds and assaults him. Political parties that should incubate ideologies, policies and groom effective leaders are undisciplined amalgams of power brokers, shady characters and ruthless ‘godfathers.’ Decent, public service-oriented members are very few in their ranks. Lacking ideology or vision, internal democracy and values, the parties are mere vehicles for contesting elections to gain access to power and the treasury. Unlike in other democracies, they are not vehicles of mass mobilisation, participation, or popular aspirations. Federal and state legislatures, as products of flawed, often violent party selection processes, have failed to be true representatives of the people. At the National Assembly, greedy and corrupt, they are neither effective, responsive lawmakers nor do they exercise effective oversight over the Executive branch. At the state level, legislators are errand boys of the imperial governors. The system has similarly produced a succession of incompetent, repressive presidents, each one worse than his predecessor. Regrettably, the judiciary, the last rail guard, has also been penetrated by corruption, mediocrity, and integrity deficit. Accordingly, Chatham House, a British charity, rates Ghana’s democracy as ‘resilient’ and Nigeria’s as ‘fragile.’ Nigerians need to act now to exert their sovereignty or continue along the path of destitution. Democracy is recognised as the rule of the people through their freely elected representatives. Abraham Lincoln’s famed summary of “government of the people, by the people, for the people,” said Chatham House, simply translates to popular sovereignty. American political theorist, Larry Diamond, identifies four key features of a functional democracy: free and fair elections; active participation of citizens; protection of human rights, and the rule of law. The last three are missing here; though politicians enthuse over the regular elections since 1999, these are fatally flawed, wracked by rigging, violence, and voter apathy. Democracy has been found to put autocracy in check, prevent wars, promote prosperity, and foster better human development indices than other forms of government, said Britannica. And according to the US National Democratic Institute, “There is no democracy without the engagement of citizens; it is both a right and a responsibility in establishing, developing and sustaining democracy.” But Nigeria’s politicians, in alliance with the connected contractor-business elite, traditional rulers and sections of the clergy, have taken the complacency of the people for granted and treat Nigerians with contempt. The people must deploy all lawful and peaceful means to upturn the current system and compel quality service delivery from public officials. The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), certainly epitomises poor governance, but the problem is systemic. The unitary “federal” system, the atrocious political parties and the electoral system simply cannot produce meritorious outcomes or the right kind of leadership, except by default or what an analyst calls “a political accident.” What are the options for the people? When all institutions that should protect their interests are faulty, compromised and fail to deliver, the people have both a right and a duty to change the system. People power is recognised as the ultimate source of state authority. Nigerians must exercise it to the fullest. Peaceful protests, town hall meetings, rallies, petitions, sit-ins, civil society advocacy, class-action lawsuits and civil disobedience are some of the options. Devoid of violence and lawless acts, these are legitimate means by which others have liberated themselves from tyranny, including from flawed, perverted democracies. Mahatma Gandhi wore down the British colonial might with a campaign of non-violence to help win independence for India; the Solidarity workers’ movement in Poland and the Velvet Revolution in former Czechoslovakia won democracy through peaceful mass protests from “democratic” Communist regimes. Through peaceful demonstrations, the People Power Revolution ushered in a radical overhaul of democracy in the Philippines. Courageous Burmese are once again insisting on living in dignity and under democracy with peaceful mass action even in the face of a brutal usurping military junta. South Africans braved for a cruel, bloodthirsty racist regime to win their freedom. Democracy is not a game for the exclusive manipulations of corrupt, inept politicians; it is a mass participatory venture, a permanent work-in-progress. South Korea’s youth will readily pour onto the streets to demand responsive governance when institutions falter, even under their globally acknowledged liberal democracy. From the grassroots upwards, the people should insist on regular consultations and rendering of accounts by elected representatives. The 1999 Constitution is fraudulent; it is not a people’s compact and must be jettisoned. Dwight Eisenhower, the 34th President of the United States, warned his country of the danger of a military-industrial complex. In a farewell speech delivered in 1961, he warned: “In the councils of government, we must guard against the acquisition of unwarranted influence, whether sought or unsought, by the military-industrial complex. The potential for the disastrous rise of misplaced power exists and will persist.” Today, Nigeria’s democracy is trapped in a complex web of unwarranted influences and a disastrous rise of misplaced powers of religion, regionalism, and ethnicity. It should be dismantled. But amid the despair and fear, there are some reasons for hope. The people, especially the youth, should rise above primordial sentiments and see democracy as going beyond periodic elections. To put democracy firmly on its feet, the citizens should be organised to stand up for their rights. They need to be mobilised to develop the democratic culture–the right values, attitudes, skills, and knowledge and understanding–to respond appropriately and effectively to the demands, challenges, and opportunities in the country. The people should exercise autonomy of actions and fight for equal rights and justice, without which the future is bleak indeed. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com