The pandemic has created voids in the lives of many people and while some people will be happy to get back to normal again, others will be feeling the reality of loneliness at the end of a separation, divorce, or death of a loved one. Even though finding love again can become daunting, everyone is worthy of love and affection again after a heartbreak. Some people find it even harder to move on not because they are not ready but for fear of being criticised by society for rushing into a new relationship especially after the death of a partner. Knowing the right time to fill up the broken heart again irrespective of the circumstances should not be influenced by the feelings of others but by your own feelings so far you have given yourself enough time to grief and emotionally ready to move on. It is certainly not dishonouring your deceased partner when you find love again. Love is a healthy thing to share Couples who are in a healthy marital relationship often place their marital values on selflessness and would often have conversations about what life is likely to be if life suddenly changes. Most marriages end up in bitterness because it was conceived out of lust and not love and couples in this situation often leave the marriage feeling very resentful and jealous if one person moves on. Love is a healthy thing to share. If you have experienced love in your last marriage, it is a tribute to your former spouse when you are ready to share the love with someone else again. Find a good person and not the right person Finding a good person and not the right person is important as no two relationships will ever be the same. If you are looking for a new man or woman with all the good qualities of your past, you may have to wait and perhaps never find one. On the other hand, if you are also judging everyone you meet based on the terrible experiences of your past relationship, you may end up destroying your chances of loving again because of your fears of making the same mistakes again. It is important to focus on finding a good person who will love you for who you are. If you focus on preparing yourself to become a good partner by identifying all your own past mistakes and start to work on yourself, you will know the good person when he/she comes along. Gender is not a barrier Most men are quick to move on and find love again because the society is more tolerant of men who are often classed as serial polygamists in some societal norms and believed to be more vulnerable in dealing with their loss than women. This is only a perception because women also feel helpless after any form of loss. It is even tougher for women especially when children are involved and saddled with the responsibility of managing their own emotions and that of their children. Families and friends can sometimes be the barrier for a woman who desires to find love and gender should not be a barrier to loving again as long as your loved ones understand that your happiness is key. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com