The Chief Executive Officer, Background Check International, Mr Kola Olugbodi, has said about 70 per cent of organisational loss is due to the sharp practices of employees that can be prevented by focusing on due diligence and background checks. According to a statement titled ‘Background check should become a corporate policy for organisations,’ the need for background checks is as result of the crucial role of background checks in verifying claims of prospective employees during the recruitment process. Olugbodi, who spoke at a recent webinar organised by BCI, stated that the issue of background checks and due diligence were basic imperatives for corporate organisations to focus on and were of overall importance to corporate governance. He explained that the relevance of background checks should be determined in accordance with what the organisations stand to gain or lose. The statement added, “(Olugbodi) said about 70 per cent of organisational loss is due to employees’ sharp practices. Organisations should stop recruiting based on brilliance and focus on due diligence and background checks.” The webinar titled ‘The impact of background check on businesses, now and in the future’ also featured the Founder and Chief Operating Officer of Pre-employment Directory, USA, Barry Nixon; Head, Human Resources, Globacom, Yemi Faseun; Editor-in-Chief, Working Moms Africa Magazine, Mary Ikoku; and Divisional Director, Leadway Assurance Company Ltd, Kunbi Adeoti. Adeoti, in her remarks, noted that due diligence impacts the organisation and should form a crucial part of the employment process to identify bad behaviour and fraudulent acts, adding that if due diligence is not done, certain behavioural patterns may impede organisational growth. Also, Faseun stated that if due diligence is not conducted, risks are passed from one organisation to the other. He added that there should be tracking of employees before they engage in fraudulent acts. Nixon argued that every organisation should start a culture of verification, saying culture is the exact way of doing things in an organisation. Ikoku called on organisations to translate their core values into reality and employ the right candidates, adding that hiring staff members needs the same attention during a traditional marriage to prevent fraudulent claims, which she said hinders information-gathering during background checks. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com