The Director General of the Industrial Training Fund, Joseph Ari, on Thursday said the organisation has empowered 11,100 youths with technical skills through the 2020 National Industry Skills Development Programme. He said the aim of the programme was to tackle unemployment and poverty in the country. Ari spoke at the graduation of the programme’s trainees in Abuja. He said, “The 2020 National Industrial Skills Development Programme which was conducted by the Industrial Training Fund amidst the COVID-19 pandemic was part of our efforts to provide Nigerians with technical skills for job and wealth creation. “There were 300 beneficiaries in each state; multiply it by 37, the number of states in the country.” He also said the ITF had helped thousands of other youths through similar skills acquisition programmes across the country, adding that preparations were already underway for another round of the programme. Ari said, “Thousands of others were equally trained in other skills acquisition programmes including the Special Skills Development Programme, the Federal Government Skills Empowerment Programme, the Info-Tech Skills Empowerment Programme and the Agri-Preneurship Training Programme amongst others. “This year that we have declared as the Year of Skills Heightening for Prosperity, which also coincides with our 50th Anniversary as an organisation, the fund has commenced processes for the implementation of another round of skills acquisition programmes across the country. “This phase will commence from the first week of June this year.” The Chairman, Senate Committee on Industry, Saidu Alkali, urged the beneficiaries to utilise their acquired skills for the growth and development of the country’s economy. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com