There is no hiding the fact that the country is at the moment in the throes of insecurity and many states in the South-East and South-South have experienced attacks on police stations. It is the time that several Nigerians including those known to always sit on the fence have voiced out regarding the situation which needs urgent attention. Many have advised the leadership to seek help as the country is terribly bleeding from a cacophony of disagreements. Bandits and terrorists are having a swell time and the citizens are helpless. Criminals are having a swell time and it’s a disservice for anyone to play to the gallery. That is the highest fakery anyone can aspire to at this time when genuine lovers of the country are speaking the truth to power. No one should hide under eye service to claim that someone is being abused when in truth concerned people are genuinely putting their voices together to demand action. Even those who aren’t in Nigeria know that things are bad. That is a fact that all should face. Globally, those elected to occupy public positions render stewardship to the people.  It’s part of the reason why people who don’t want to be held accountable should not near public offices. Someone cannot say because his bread is buttered and they are in high office, everything others say is inconsequential. Nigeria should have gone beyond having people who only engage in eye service in public office. This is part of the reason why the country is not progressing. It is part of the reason why some people will misbehave and dare anyone to criticise him or her or express contrary opinion. The funny part of the whole thing is that those applauding inefficiency are themselves non-performers. No one needs a seer to see this. The evidence is there for all to see. The reality is on ground for all to watch. Across the world, leaders take action but here, the opposite is the case. It’s disturbing to think the people are incapable of knowing what is good for them. People should stop deceiving themselves. Those kowtowing are aware that they are only trying to colour what is ‘uncolourable.’ Eye don clear. People can see clearly now.  The days have gone when white would be irritatingly presented as blue to the people. The people know that it is white at the time but decided to keep mum and not rock the boat. Nigerians are really long-suffering even those subjecting them to suffering are aware of this. They have endured hardship for long and still enduring. It is thus absurd to be flaunting a performance that is not in order to appear loyal and further ridicule the people. It is not compulsory for people to talk all the time. Eavesdropper is aware that many of those postulating fake feats would be sincere with themselves but not bold enough to expose the reality. Or has it got to a stage that some people don’t know what quality performance is all about? This act must stop The attacks on police stations in the South-East and South-South are fast becoming a routine and the concerned authorities should quickly do all within their powers to curb the act. The citizens are worried and it appears that the act is increasing.  From Imo, Enugu, Ebonyi to Anambra, the situation is the same.In the South-South, on Wednesday, unidentified returned to Akwa Ibom and set ablaze a divisional police station in the Etim Ekpo Local Government Area of the state and killed an officer. The police constable identified as Edogi Bassey, reportedly lost his life when police and the hoodlums exchanged gunfire. Also, Rivers State was in the grip of gunmen who attacked two police stations in Obio-Akpor and Emuoha Local Government Areas of Rivers State. About seven policemen were feared dead in the attack.  In the South-East, on Sunday, hoodlums attacked a police station attached to Trademore Housing Estate in Ubani Ibeku, Umuahia North Local Government area of Abia State. The challenge is that the situation is worsening and it seems the assailants are emboldened to continue with the nefarious act without being checked. Eavesdropper believes that such a situation doesn’t augur well for the country when security agents are made to work in fear of gunmen they are constitutionally empowered to curb their activities among other criminal acts. The police authorities need to fortify the stations with assorted, modern gadgets and empower the cops with sophisticated weapons. The situation looks as if the aim is to cow the police into submission and this is what must not be allowed to happen.  Every effort should be made to halt this development which is fast turning into a regular feature. The police have all it takes to nip the act in the bud and they should not hesitate to do so. Intelligence and technology should be combined to tackle the matter. The financial and social implications of the act cannot be quantified. Solution ought to be hastily found to the case assuming a dangerous dimension and it should be urgent to inspire confidence in the populace. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com