THE Executive Director of the National Primary Health Care Development Agency, Dr Faisal Shuaib, on Thursday said the agency would work with the military to deliver COVID-19 vaccines to Nigerians living in security compromised areas. Shuaib disclosed this during the Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention’s weekly virtual COVID-19 briefing monitored by our correspondent. According to him, the Federal Government has learnt from the success of the polio eradication programme after the country was certified polio free in 2020 and was ready to employ the same means in defeating COVID-19. He said the reason why the country experienced delay in eradicating polio was because of the insecurity in the North-East which made it difficult for health workers to access some settlements. He said the situation then made the Federal Government to partner the military to deliver polio vaccines to the affected areas. Shuaib said, “We have also mapped out strategies so that the military supports the vaccination of people in security compromised areas. “In this first phase of vaccination, we have not really focused on those in the security compromised areas. We focused on our health workers and people from ages 50 and above “For those individuals in the Internally Displaced Persons’ camps, we have a programme that will take the vaccines to them. “We are also working with our development partners to ensure that these occupants of IDP camps get their vaccines and because of their vulnerable nature, they are prioritised to get their vaccines just like those in correctional homes because these are the people that are not likely to get the vaccines and one of the core elements of the COVAX facility is equity. “So, we have brought this into our programme to make sure that there is equity as regards the vaccine,” Shuaib said. He also said Nigeria had started the administration of the second dose of vaccine to those who had taken the first dose. According to him, Nigeria received four million doses which were divided into two; the first two million was for the first dose while the
second part was for the administration of the second dose to those who had taken the first dose. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com