An unidentified middle-aged man slumped and died while dancing at a traditional wedding in Borokiri, axis of old Port Harcourt Township in Rivers State. The man simply identified as Dein, was a community chief from Ataba in Andoni Local Government Area of the state. READ ALSO: Two suspected bank robbers apprehended in Imo The incident happened on Monday at a traditional marriage reception between his relative from Ataba, who got married to a lady from Asarama community all in Andoni LGA. It was gathered that while the guests and families of those getting married were seated, the man who was dressed in a traditional white top, black trousers and holding a white handkerchief took to the floor and started displaying his dancing skills to the admiration of the guests. In a viral video which surfaced online on Tuesday and seen by our correspondent, while he continued dancing to the rhythmic tunes, the cheers and ovation grew louder, with some clapping and watching, when suddenly he fell to the ground. But the crowd neither moved because they never suspected anything untoward would happen, while the master of ceremony was making jokes suggesting it that was part of the dancing skills. As seen in the viral video, the master of ceremony said, “Is this (sudden fall to the ground) part of the dance? Is fainting part of the dance? Is fainting part of the dance?” Suddenly, the man made a move with his hands and head as if he was trying to stand up, but fell again and remained motionless. Few minutes afterwards, a man walked up to him to know what the problem was, two other guests followed and they touched him and rolled him sideways but his hands dropped. The MC said, “Doctor is going to check him; check if it is alcohol.” As apprehension grew, the men signalled to themselves and took the man away. It was gathered that one of the guest and a medical doctor, who confirmed the man’s death. The spokesman for the state Police Command, Nnamdi Omoni, said he saw the video, but he had yet to get any report on it. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com