RAPHAEL EDE writes on the burning of the Independent National Electoral Commission’s offices in the South-East and the likely effects on the 2023 elections On Sunday, May 16, 2021, the Enugu headquarters of the Independent National Electoral Commission came under heavy attack by yet-to-be identified gunmen. The hoodlums, who were said to have stormed the premises around 8.40pm, torched the operational vehicles and vandalised offices. The attack came barely 48 hours after the commission’s Udenu Local Government Area headquarters in Obollo-Afor was completely razed down. Nothing was spared in the office after the attack, including 16 generators. Recent attacks on the Enugu offices of the commission have brought to 21 targeted attacks on the institution of democracy in the country between 2019 and now. Similar attacks on INEC offices had taken place in 2015 and 2016. A breakdown of the incidents showed that the most affected states are Akwa Ibom with four incidents; Abia, three; Anambra, two; and Imo, two. Other states that witnessed fire incidents between February 2019 and May 2021 are Borno, Ebonyi, Jigawa, Kano, Ondo, Plateau and Rivers. The Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, was also not left out. It was learnt that while 11 INEC offices were burnt by hoodlums, eight others were gutted by fire in mysterious circumstances or through electrical fault. Findings show that the affected INEC offices in Akwa Ibom State were in the Essien Udim Local Government Area on May 2, 2021; Ibesikpo Asutan, Mkpat Enin and Eastern Obolo LGAs in 2019. Those of Enugu State are the Udenu LGA office in Obollo-Afor on May 13, 2021; and the state headquarters in Enugu on May 16, 2021. For Ebonyi State, fire razed the commission’s office in the Izzi Local Government Area on February 4, 2016, while the INEC Registration Area Centre in the Ezza North Local Government Area was torched on March 9, 2019. The INEC office in Ogidi, Idemili North Local Government Area of Anambra State was attacked on February 2, 2020. The headquarters in Awka had earlier been razed on February 12, 2019. The commission’s office in the Qua’an Pan Local Government Area of Plateau State was razed on February 9, 2019. In Imo State, the INEC office in Nwaorubi, Mbaitoli LGA, was razed on April 5, 2015; Isiala Mbano office was attacked on February 25, 2019; while the Orlu office of INEC was burnt on February 3, 2020. In Abia State, the Obingwa LGA office of the electoral umpire was attacked in 2015; on February 2, 2019, it was the turn of the Isiala Ngwa South LGA office; that of the Ohafia LGA was attacked on May 10, 2021. In Rivers State, findings show that on January 28, 2019, the Oyigbo Local Government Area office of INEC was attacked, while on July 22, 2016, fire gutted the INEC office in Bori, Khana Local Government Area. In Kano State, the INEC headquarters has been consistently attacked with the latest coming on April 20, 2021. While in Ondo State, the commission’s headquarters in Akure was attacked on September 10, 2020. Meanwhile, INEC has warned that the premeditated attacks on its offices portend great danger to the 2023 general elections. Nobody, including security agents, seems to have identified the reason for the attacks or those behind the clandestine acts. While some stakeholders in the South-East believe that the attacks may not be unconnected to the campaign for the region to produce the next President in 2023, others see it as a bigger problem that will usher in an interim administration after the regime of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). They believe that the attacks are politically motivated or a protest against INEC’s perceived lack of transparency in previous elections across the country. A former Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice in Imo State, Prof Francis Dike (SAN), described the attacks on INEC offices as unfortunate and noted that rather than destroy its structures, the commission as an institution of democracy should be strengthened. Dike, who is the Chairman of Orlu Elders’ Council said the burning of the commission’s offices across the country could be regarded as a protest. He stated, “It can be regarded as a protest because what we should all be doing is to strengthen our democratic process rather than to destroy the structures that are there. So, INEC is symbolic of the democratic process; so, an attack on INEC is an attack on the democratic process. “But you know obviously that there are some grievances that can be held against it. Most INEC staff members infringe on the democratic process. There is no election conducted in Nigeria that has been transparent. I don’t know of any.” On the possible solution, Dike advised the government to have a dialogue with the people of Nigeria to end the crises in different parts of the country, adding, “I think you know the problem of this country can be solved if people want to put their mind to it, but we are just being hypocritical about it, while we are moving towards the brink. “How can you talk about elections when people start burning INEC buildings? The people are just saying we don’t want the democratic process that is implemented there. Although I am not holding brief for them, what is happening is just symbolic of deeper grievances that people may have. I don’t see why they should go and burn an INEC building. “It is almost like you say you go and destroy a university because you don’t believe in western education or anything, but why don’t you allow the people to continue with their education? There is trouble everywhere.” For Obasi Igwe, a retired Professor of Political Science, University of Nigeria, the burning of INEC offices in the South-East and South-South is a calculated attempt to disenfranchise the two regions to ensure that the South-East does not realise a president of Igbo extraction by 2023. He stated, “It is unfortunate that the South-East and the South-South – the old eastern part of the country – are being disenfranchised because this is the next effect of the destruction of the INEC offices. They are being disenfranchised by the number of the local government areas, which is the determining factor for the number of members in the National Assembly. They are being disenfranchised in the number of states in the East. “They are again being disenfranchised by destroying the infrastructure through which they can make their voices heard electorally. This is an orchestration if you analyse it and remember this is an orchestration escorted from somewhere to the East.” Obasi appealed to those responsible to sheathe their swords and stop the attacks, noting, “It is an ill-wind that blows no one any good. “What is happening is not achieving any other purpose than to destroy lives, commerce and political activities, and ultimately violation of the fundamental rights of the eastern people. Apart from these destructions, there are also ongoing reports of arrests and disappearance of unarmed youths. I am appealing to the authorities to stop. The East is not in a state of war. You cannot bring soldiers to inundate a place that is relatively peaceful and withdraw soldiers from the theatres of war into theatres of relative peace. “So, we are appealing that the burning of INEC offices should stop. This is actually a walloping of the East, which is somehow a reminder of the situation in the West between 1963 and 1965. We don’t want a repeat in the eastern region, which now comprises the South-East and the South-South.” A former governor of Anambra State, Chief Chukwemeka Ezeife, described the burning of INEC offices as complicated, adding that it was a way to discourage elections in the South-East and South-South regions. He, however, attributed the arson to Islamic groups operating in the South-East, South-South, South-West and the Middle Belt, which he said were imported to destabilise southern Nigeria ahead of 2023. “So, those who don’t want the East to produce a president are trying to make things difficult. Those who don’t want the East to produce the President in 2023 are trying to cause commotion and insecurity in eastern Nigeria,” he stated. Ezeife noted that the current situation had been handed over to God, adding, “God is in heaven and we are praying to Him and eventually He will answer our prayers.” The Archbishop of Enugu, Anglican Communion, Most Rev Emmanuel Chukwuma, said that attacks on INEC offices signalled that the 2023 elections were dicey, adding that people were becoming so frustrated in the country. The cleric said he could see a situation where there would be no election in 2023 and there would be an interim government after Buhari. He stated, “I am prophesying that if care is not taken, we are going to have an interim government after this present government, because people are frustrated. There is too much anxiety about the elections. Even right now, the way people are campaigning, preparing for elections and trying to agitate for 2023 is becoming so unfortunate. “They are not talking about security anymore; nobody is talking about hunger; nobody is talking about employment. So, if the people are now anxious about political elections, I don’t think that it is unconnected to people now frustrated and going to burn INEC offices to say okay that you will not have elections. Again it could be some people in opposition parties, who may think that they will be short-changed in the coming elections. They now begin to cause confusion to disrupt elections in that states, because they feel that probably the electoral umpire will not conduct transparent elections. “So it is in two ways: people who are agitating for elections and they are already becoming too ambitious, and people who are feeling that you are too ambitious; you’re not concerned about their security; you’re not concerned about their feeding; you’re not concerned about unemployment. So, they are now showing their anger by burning INEC offices and some other people may be trying to use it as a sign of opposition of some sort.” While expressing his opposition to the burning of INEC offices, Chukwuma warned officials of the commission that if they failed to conduct free and fair elections, the worst might be lurking in the corner. The cleric stated, “I am very much sceptical about the way the Federal Government is handling the situation in this country. If care is not taken we may have an interim government in place instead of having elections. “Those in government, instead of focusing and trying to do something to develop their areas, are now saving money for the 2023 elections. They may be surprised that in 2023, there may be no elections; they should rather use the money to develop the people and have peace.” He said the church was praying that God would take control, but warned, “I will tell you that 2023 is going to be a difficult year that we may not have a serious election as there could be the outbreak of violence, war or a situation that will necessitate an interim government.” However, the Executive Director, Women Information Network, Mrs Miriam Menkiti, condemned the attacks on INEC offices and called the security agencies to stand up to their calling. “We cannot surrender to criminals; the government should find out why the citizens have resorted to attacking security agents and INEC offices and know how to tackle it,” she said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com