Coinbase Coinbase is the easiest place to buy and sell cryptocurrency, especially, Bitcoin. As one of the leading mainstream cryptocurrency exchanges in the United States, the platform has become a standard on-ramp for new crypto investors over the past few years. Coinbase offers a wide variety of products including cryptocurrency investing, an advanced trading platform, custodial accounts for institutions, a wallet for retail investors, and its own US dollar stable-coin. Founded in 2012, the platform is a secure place that makes it easy to buy and sell cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin, Ethereum, Bitcoin Cash, and Litecoin. Recently, Coinbase was valued at US$85 billion, spurring bitcoin and ether to all-time highs. Cash App Cash App is a peer-to-peer payment service owned by Square Inc, a leader in the fintech industry. Users can create a free account that will then let them instantly send or receive money from other users within the same country. They can also add funds to their Cash App account using a debit card linked to an existing bank account and can carry out the transfer from the Cash App account to the bank account instantly. Fortunately, the platform has expanded its service beyond Peer-to-peer payment service. The app users can also receive direct deposit payments and ACH payments, as well as purchase Bitcoin through Cash App. The platform started Bitcoin service in 2017 and is now allowing users to buy and sell them. Binance Binance is an exchange where users can trade Cryptocurrencies. Founded in 2018 to enable peer-to-peer Bitcoin exchange transactions using local currencies, the company is now offering trading in more than 45 virtual coins including Ethereum, Litecoin, and Binance Coin using 55 local currencies via 150+ payment channels around the world. In 2020, Binance P2P processed US$7 billion worth of transactions made through 3.8 million orders, with daily volumes reaching as high as US$54 million. Among the many P2P solutions offered across the crypto market, the Binance P2P Bitcoin exchange offers several competitive features like zero fees, multiple payment methods, Escrow service, high liquidity, etc. www.analyticsinsight.net