Naomi Ogunwusi Queen Naomi Shilekunola Ogunwusi, the wife of the 51st traditional ruler of Ile Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, is undoubtedly a stylish and beautiful queen. The light-skinned young queen got married to the Ooni of Ife in October 2018. Queen Naomi is one queen who has always publicly showered sweet encomiums on her husband and has never shied away from expressing her love to him. She is well known for her stylish outfits, as well as her keen eye for details. Photos and videos of her outings have shown that the Olori always stands out in a crowd.  Even when she steps out in white apparel, she effortlessly looks regal and chic. In an interview with a talk show on TVC, Queen Naomi, who welcomed her first child, Prince Tadenikowo, on November 18, 2020, noted that being in the public glare made conceiving more challenging for her. She said, “One thing that society does not yet know is that when a woman is under pressure, it becomes very difficult to conceive because it messes with her brain and then it goes into her hormones and it becomes more difficult. The more you abuse a woman about childbearing, the more it becomes difficult for her to conceive. For me, it was really difficult but I thank God and thank my husband. There was no pressure at all from my husband’s family. They were all very supportive.” The queen is also the founder and president of En-Heralds— an inter-denominational ministry based in Akure, Ondo State. She was said to have started public ministry at the age of 18 and became a full-time evangelist in October 2011. Sekinat and Hadiza Elegushi Queen Sekinat Elegushi is a graduate of Accounting from the University of Lagos, and she is the first wife of Oba Elegushi of Ikateland.  Queen Sekinat is not only stylish but is also a lover of arts. Whether in English dresses or traditional attire, the mother of three always shows up at events looking classy and stunning. One of the things that also stand Queen Sekinat out is her impeccable make-up at events. Her husband, Oba Elegushi, is arguably one of the most stylish young kings in Nigeria and it is not surprising that she is also a ‘fashionista queen’.  Olori Sekinat has also maintained that she has always been stylish, even before she became a queen. She once said in an interview, “I have been stylish since I was young and while still in school. I like to look good and dress up in anything good.” Olori Sekinat was born to the famous Ipaye Bello family of Lagos Island on November 10, 1976. She also has fashion stores further confirming her love for fashion. Some of her styles have also been featured on some fashion look books. On the other hand, Olori Hadiza Elegushi is another beautiful wife of the young king. A native of Kano, she got married to the Elegushi in May 2019. She is a daughter to a notable northern politician, Alhaji Tanko Yakassai. Though she is rarely seen in public, the queen is very beautiful and stylish. Her glowing skin is usually complemented by her simple, yet stylish outfits. She has a son for the king. The Alaafin of Oyo’s wives The Alaafin of Oyo, Óba Lamidi Adeyemi III, is known to storm events with his entourage of young and beautiful queens. Although the king usually attends events with his young queens, who are all light skinned, he has other older wives who have been with him for many years. His wives include Queen Abibat, Queen Rahmat, Queen Mujidat, Queen Rukayat, Queen Folashade, Queen Badirat, Queen Memunat, Queen Omobolanle, Queen Moji, Queen Damilola and Queen Anuoluwapo. Some months ago, it was reported that the 82-year-old former boxer had married his thirteenth wife, Queen Chioma. Though the king married his wives at different times, one common thing about them is their enviable fashion sense. The young queens are known to usually show off their rich wardrobes on Instagram. Some of them even have fashion stores. Little wonder that they always look picture-perfect when stepping out with their husband, either at home or abroad. Meanwhile, the king once stated that he had never approached (wooed) a lady. In a 2018 interview with The PUNCH, he had said, “I have never approached a lady. They come to me. My first wife was a friend to my younger sister of blessed memory. My sister introduced her to me and though she was not educated, she gave me the first lawyer in our family— my son, Tunde. I truthfully do not know the art of chasing women. I don’t go out to chase women. I am very stoic; I seldom laugh. Most times, it is impossible to know what is going on in my mind because you cannot read my emotions on my face and women don’t like that.” Gimbiya Farouk Gimbiya Farouk is the young wife of the sixtieth Emir of Daura Emirate, Alhaji Faruk Umar. The fair-skinned mother of two is not only beautiful, she is likewise known to dress well at all times. Although her style can be described as modest, she adorns herself with beautiful pieces of jewellery. Her classy yet simple style has earned her mentions on some fashion blogs and columns. Any observer would also note that her make-up usually accentuates her beauty, though she prefers to keep it simple. She welcomed her second child with the 90-year-old emir in 2017. Paula William-Dappa-Pepple Queen Paula Edward is the only wife of King Asimini Pepple, the Amanyanabo of Grand Bonny Kingdom in Rivers State. Gorgeous, articulate and stylish, the queen is rarely seen without gold jewellery. One of her favourite is a gold-encrusted necklace with a pendant (popularly called ‘Longlife’) and coral-like beads otherwise known as (clari). Also, she adorns herself with a form of make-up, which is said to be indigenous to the Bonny people. One can safely say that the beautiful queen is a lover of bags, as she is often seen with classy ones. Aishatu Baju Aishatu Baju is the wife of the Emir of Mambilla, Taraba State, Dr Shehu Audu Baju II. The eloquent queen is not only stylish, she also has an impressive profile. She is an Assistant Inspector General of Police, a veterinary doctor, and the president of the Veterinary Council of Nigeria, as well as a lecturer. In a recent interview, she stated that she loves comfortable but fashionable outfits. She also has soft spot for classy shoes and bags. Even when she is clad in police uniform, the AIG still looks good and radiant. Like most northern women, she usually covers her head with fine scarves. The 50-year-old joined the Nigerian Police Force in 1995. Prior to that, she studied Veterinary Medicine at the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria. She went on to bag her PhD, from the University of Plymouth in 2007. Grace Ikenchukwu Queen Grace is a strong and beautiful woman and her husband, the Dein of Agbor, Benjamin Keagborekuzi I, is apparently happy to have her in his life. In a recent interview, he had sweet words for her. He had said, “My wife is a warrior. That is what attracted me to her because I also want my children to be warriors. A good wife will make one, while a bad wife will break one.” Though she is rarely seen at social events, anyone who sees her in public would agree that she is indeed a stylish queen, who likes to look good at all times. Queen Igwenwanyi Achebe Queen Igwenwanyi is the wife of the Obi of Onitsha, His Majesty Nnaemeka Alfred Achebe. Described as graceful and charismatic, she is known to step out for events in stylish traditional attires. Not given to an ostentatious lifestyle, she often opts for simple but sophisticated jewelleries. Even though she is perceived as quiet, she has been spotted alongside her husband at several functions. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com