The Nigerian Guild of Editors has called on the National Broadcasting Commission to stop the harassment of broadcasting stations over matters that could easily be resolved through dialogue. The NGE, in a statement by its President, Mustapha Isah; and General Secretary, Mary Atolagbe, on Saturday, rejected the N5m fine imposed on Channels Television and Inspiration FM for alleged infractions. According to the guild, the fines are punitive, arbitrary and against press freedom. The statement read, “The NBC is punishing Channels TV for interviewing the spokesman of the Indigenous People of Biafra, while Inspiration FM is facing the hammer of the NBC for broadcasting a statement by IPOB, declaring a sit-at-home order. “Once again, the NBC has played the role of an accuser, the prosecutor and the judge. In a democratic country like ours, a panel should have been set up to investigate the alleged infractions, with both stations given the opportunity for defence. “The NBC is clearly at variance with the tenets of democracy anchored on freedom of expression and a free press. The guild therefore calls on the NBC to withdraw these obnoxious fines and stop the harassment of broadcasting stations over matters that could easily be resolved through dialogue.” It stated that every accused person or organisation deserves fair hearing before punishment is pronounced, adding that obtaining letters of apology from the affected stations under duress could not justify the action of the NBC. “The Voice of America, Hausa Service, recently interviewed the leader of a terrorist group behind the abduction of 22 students of Greenfield University, Kaduna State. In that interview, the terrorists threatened to kill the remaining students in their custody if N100m was not paid within 24 hours. “Neither the American authorities nor any other regulatory agency imposed sanctions on VOA for this interview. The Nigerian Broadcasting Code should be reviewed without delay to reflect democratic principles. “Broadcasting stations in Nigeria should not be made to operate in an atmosphere of fear. A free press is needed to nurture and sustain democracy in Nigeria,” it said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com