The House of Representatives has condemned “in strong terms” the rape and gruesome murder of Miss Iniubong Ephraim Umoren, a job-seeker in Akwa Ibom State who was lured by a fake potential employer. The House, at the plenary on Tuesday, described the incident as “barbaric, inhuman and despotic,” mandating the acting Inspector General of Police, Usman Alkali Baba, to “immediately commission and take over the investigation and prosecution of the perpetrators of the heinous crime.” Also, the House mandated IGP to “ensure the protection of her family members from harassment, intimidation, and harm.” The House Committee on Women Affairs and Social Development was also asked to follow up with the investigation and prosecution; ensure compliance with the resolutions and report back to the chamber. The resolutions were sequel to a unanimous adoption of a motion moved by the lawmaker representing Ukanafun/Oruk, Anam Federal Constituency in Akwa Ibom, Mr Unyime Idem, titled ‘A Call for Comprehensive Investigation, Prosecution and Punishment of the Perpetrator(s) of the Kidnapping, Sexual Assault and Heinous Killing of Miss Iniubong Ephraim Umoren and the Need to Protect Her Family Members.’ The PUNCH had earlier reported that the victim went missing while attending a job interview in Akwa Ibom on Thursday. She had earlier tweeted via her handle, @HinyHumoren, that she needed a job and some persons had suggested prospective employers to her. But @UmohUduak1, who identified as the job seeker’s friend, raised the alarm on Thursday that her friend was nowhere to be found. Her cries for help attracted the Nigerian Twitter community which called on security agencies to find the victim. The hashtag, #FindHinnyHumoren, has since been trending on Twitter for days. But in a statement on Sunday, titled, ‘Update On The Disappearance Of Miss Iniobong Ephraim Umoren’, the Akwa Ibom police said that Akpan kidnapped, sexually violated, and subsequently buried the victim to cover up his atrocity. Moving the motion on Tuesday, Idem said, “The House is cognisant that it has been reported that the assailant, upon his arrest by the police and subsequent voluntary confession, boasted that he is well connected and will be released from the police custody scot-free in a matter of days. “The House is bothered that the family members of the deceased have reportedly raised an alarm of receiving strange phone calls and threats of various degrees and have been asked to withdraw the case. “The House regrets that the Nigeria Police Force has been reporting a surging high record in rape and gender violation across the country. Unfortunately, a very scary number of cases have been reported daily with thousands unreported. These acts are gross violations of human rights to dignity, life and sexuality. “The House is concerned that the public outrage on account of rape and other violent crimes against women and the girl child should not go unpunished as a deterrent for the perpetrators and others nursing the thought to forestall future occurrence.”