Pension Fund Operators Association of Nigeria has said it is partnering with the African Private Equity and Venture Capital Association to empower local investors and develop private equity as an asset class in Nigeria. PenOp said in a statement on Sunday that the domestic capital played a vital role in accelerating economic growth in Nigeria and across the continent in general. It said over the past five to 10 years, the value of Nigerian pension funds had grown markedly to peak at over $25bn in December 2020, of which 0.03 per cent had been allocated to private equity. “The partnership between PenOp and AVCA will focus on training and networking, including an introduction to development finance institutions, fund managers and other stakeholders within the global private equity ecosystem, to ensure the growth of private equity in Nigeria, especially for pension operators,” it said. PenOP said as part of the collaboration, it would also support AVCA’s research and advocacy by providing insight into pension fund investments in PE and their impact. During the African institutional investor roundtable hosted at AVCA’s annual conference in April, PenOp said there was a discussion about ways to encourage pension funds on the continent to increase their allocations to private equity. It stated that the roundtable event was a partnership between PenOp, AVCA, Southern African Venture Capital and Private Equity Association and East Africa Venture Capital Association. It said the event, which was attended by several Nigerian pension funds and international DFIs, was enlightening and engaging. It added that the outcomes from the event would be reviewed by all associations involved, with a view to working on removing the identified roadblocks. Speaking about the partnership, the Chief Executive Officer, PenOp, Oguche Agudah, said, “Pension funds realise that they need to diversify into alternative investments, and private equity presents one of such opportunities. “However, we haven’t seen that much uptake of this locally. In addition to other initiatives we are pursuing, we are hoping that this partnership with AVCA will help to further open up this space.” The Chief Executive Officer, African Private Equity and Venture Capital Association, Abi Mustapha-Maduakor, said, “Our mission at AVCA is to facilitate more private investment into Africa, and part of this work involves unlocking domestic capital by demystifying the asset class. “We know that African institutional investors are increasingly looking at PE to diversify their portfolios, so this collaboration with PenOp will enable us to equip Nigerian pension funds with the tools and resources they need to achieve superior returns by investing in the continent’s growing businesses.” According to the statement, AVCA is the pan-African industry body, which promotes and enables private investment in Africa. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com