Supporters of the All Progressives Congress, under the aegis of Concerned APC Members, have urged the party leadership to immediately release the timetable and guidelines for congresses. The spokesman for the group, Abdullahi Dauda, said this in a telephone interview with Sunday PUNCH, in Abuja, on Saturday. He said the Caretaker / Extraordinary National Convention Planning Committee owes it a duty to itself and party members to expedite action on releasing the timetable to enable those interested in party offices across board to prepare. Dauda said, “We expect that by now, the timetable and guidelines for ward and local government congresses should be out for those who are interested in party positions to begin campaigns. “We cannot afford a fire brigade approach because this committee was given one year to organise this convention and you cannot have an elective convention like this one without congresses to elect delegates. “As we speak in Bauchi State, there are up to 12 people interested in becoming the state party chairman. In Jigawa, there are more than six people. There should be a timetable so that the sale of forms and campaigns can start.” In response to a question whether the upcoming Anambra State  governorship primaries will not interfere with the process, Dauda said, “Not at all. We have competent party members who can handle that. The CENCPC does not need to be there.” When contacted, the Party National Secretary, Senator John Akpanudoedehe, declined comments on the issue of the timetable. However, a top ranking member of the party who spoke in confidence because he was not authorised to speak to the media said, “As you know, there was not much the party could do during the Ramadan when our Muslim members were fasting. “Just wait and see what will happen when the secretariat resumes fully next week.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com