JESUSEGUN ALAGBE looks at the governors’ share of the blame in worsening security crisis that has lingered across the country The President, as the chief security officer of the country, is vested with the responsibility of securing the lives and property of the citizens – be it from bandits, terrorists, kidnappers, armed robbers, armed herders, and other insurgents. According to legal experts, protection or security of citizens is a social contract between the President and the people. According to Section 218(1) of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), the powers of the President as the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federation shall include the power to determine the operational use of the armed forces of the federation. Section 218(2) also confers on the President the power to appoint the Chief of Defence Staff, the Chief of Army Staff, the Chief of Naval Staff, the Chief of Air Staff, and the heads of any other branches of the armed forces of the federation as may be established by an Act of the National Assembly. In Section 218(3), the President may, by direction in writing and subject to such conditions as he think fit, delegate to any member of the armed forces of the federation his powers relating to the operational use of the Armed Forces of the Federation. In a nutshell, even though Nigeria operates a federal system, all the security apparatuses are controlled at the centre – only by the President. Due to this, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), has been the focal object of blame for the security crisis rocking the country. It is safe to say that for all the killings in the country, the kidnappings, the invasion of farmlands and rape of women by militant herdsmen, and other deadly acts by criminals, the buck stops at the President’s table because, according to the constitution, only the President can deploy the police, military or other security and intelligence agencies in an area. State governors have no such powers. However, the new dimensions of the security crisis in the country have raised a few questions regarding the role of governors in securing their people. Stakeholders, in recent times, have begun to ask whether governors have any powers at all to protect their people from militant herdsmen, bandits, terrorists, and other criminal elements? Yes, they do, according to some experts. It’s just that the governors might be unwilling to exercise their powers or be ignorant that they wield such powers, the experts added. Talking about unwillingness to exercise powers to protect their people, some analysts are wondering what the state governors are using their security votes for. Not a few Nigerians believe it is not only the President that should bear the blame for the widespread security crisis but also the governors, whose security votes allegedly run into billions of naira every month. A security analyst and former Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party, Ibrahim Jalo, said with their security votes, there was a lot that governors could do to protect their people rather than relying solely on the Federal Government. He said, “As provided for in the constitution, the governors are the chief security officers of their states. So the question is: what are they doing to protect their people? Yes, the constitution does not allow them to control the police or others, but they can take other steps to protect their people. They can partner with and provide intelligence gadgets to federal security apparatuses. At least they collect security votes. “For instance, there are sophisticated security cameras that can see activities 15km away; there are walkie-talkies that can identify flashpoints. These are the things the governors can buy with their security votes for the security agencies in their states. They should not see the security votes as their personal money. Some of the gadgets used by the security agencies are obsolete; the governors can assist them.” Jalo stressed that it was time for the governors to take bold steps in protecting their people, asking, “If they are blaming the Federal Government for the security crisis, what have they done to complement the efforts of the security agencies in their states?” According to a report by Transparency International, in 2017 alone, state governors collected amounts ranging from N400m to N17bn as security votes. For a long time, the security votes have not been widely accepted by the citizens, as there have been reports that such funds are being abused by the state governments because they are never accountable to any agency as to how such funds are disbursed. The state governments are usually advised to use their discretion in ways on how to spend the funds. A lawyer and political commentator, Mr Liborous Oshoma, also questioned what the governors were using their security votes for in the face of the widespread insecurity across the country. He said, “I think it is self-deceit to say that a political leader, be it at the local government or state level, does not share in the blame for insecurity. The governors share a large blame. What are their security votes meant for? Yes, the governors do not control the security apparatuses, be it the police, army, customs, immigration, navy, or air force, but nothing stops them from setting up local vigilantes like Amotekun. “The funds the governors are using to purchase armoured vehicles for themselves should be invested in creating capacity for the local vigilantes. Eventually if state policing materialises, their local vigilantes who have excelled can be graduated into state police operatives. So the governors cannot keep making excuses that they don’t control the security apparatuses. “If they can raise security funds and donate patrol vehicles to federal parastatals, they can as well do the same to empower their local vigilantes. This is what can be done to curb insecurity at hand, while other measures like employment should be looked into in the long run. So the governors wield some powers to curb the security crisis that we have. They cannot be collecting security votes and then sit down to complain of not having powers to control the country’s security apparatus.” Although Oshoma commended the Southern States Governors’ Forum for the meeting they held recently, he emphasised the need to compare notes on how they are handling the security crisis in their respective states in subsequent meetings. They should not be wasting their time calling on the Federal Government, which doesn’t care if they exist, “to convoke a national dialogue,” he said. Governors from the southern states, discarding their party affiliations, had held a meeting at Asaba, the Delta State capital, to demand, among other things, the restructuring of the country, a review of revenue allocation formula in favour of the sub-national governments, and banned open grazing across their states. The governors, in a communiqué issued at the end of the meeting, also called on President Buhari to convoke a national dialogue to address widespread agitations amongst various groups in the region. The Director-General of the Voice of Nigeria, Mr Osita Okechukwu, said the meeting could present some solutions for the security crisis in the country. He, however, asked the governors to deepen democracy in their respective states as a means of curbing insecurity and other vices. He said, “What I know is that there seems to be a solution onboard, going by the meeting held by the southern states governors. There were far-reaching decisions made at the meeting, some of which might not be made public. But the governors should try to broaden democracy at the grass roots level. The situation we are in is caused by gross unemployment, among other factors. A lot of people don’t get any benefit from their local government or state administrations, and most people think the whole problem is from Abuja (central government). “However, the states and local governments get more than 40 per cent of the federal allocations, but the local governments can’t act on their own, and so many people have been left idle. The governors must change their tactics and address the issues that concern the people. They may not be able to build 1,000km roads but they should prioritise their people’s welfare because a hungry man is an angry man.” Okechukwu added, “Even when the constitution was amended in 2018, no state governor observed the amendment in Section 121(3) that gave the judiciary and legislature financial autonomy until the President enacted Executive Order 10 in 2020. All the governors went to the Supreme Court level to stop the order. They also voted against local government autonomy. “These actions have left us with bad consequences, some of which we are experiencing today. The governors should not be advocating restructuring at the federal level while ignoring it in their states. Restructuring is a dual-carriageway. They cannot be clamouring for more powers from the Federal Government while they refuse to distribute theirs to the local governments.” Meanwhile, a lawyer and social commentator, Mr Tunde Esan, said even though the governors usually collect security votes, they could do little from the constitutional point of view. He said, “From the constitutional point of view, it is only the President that is vested with the right to give instructions to the institutions that have the instrument of violence. So a governor cannot give instructions to the army to do anything. “What we all do is to question the governors on their security votes, but from the constitutional point of view, a governor does not have the power to bring even a shotgun into the country. So even if he collects billions of naira as security votes, he cannot equip, let’s say, a neighbourhood watch with guns to protect its members.” However, in a crisis situation like what the country is in, Esan agreed that the governors had a major role to play. He said, “The law is made for man and not the other way round. As beautiful as the law is, you have to be alive first to obey its dictates. In a situation like this, you will hear a governor telling their people to find a way to protect themselves. If this crisis is not addressed by the President and his security team, the governors will begin to take more active roles to protect their people, and these roles will be outside the provisions of the law. “Also, if a man has access to AK-47 because he comes from a certain tribe and he comes to dispossess you of your land and rape your women, it will get to a point that you will say, irrespective of what the law says, you can make Dane guns. Any state that gets to a point where the people feel the government can no longer protect them and they turn to non-state actors like Sunday Igboho and Nnamdi Kanu is a failed state.” Esan noted that the Southern governors had done well in making a statement to the President that their people were getting worried about the state of security of the country. “They are appealing to the President, but anybody who is sensitive should look beyond what the governors said to what they didn’t say,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com