On April 14, 2014, 276 pupils of  Government Girls Secondary School, Chibok, Borno State, were kidnapped by the Boko Haram insurgents. Joy Bishara and Lydia Pogu were among a few who were able to escape from the insurgents on the way to captivity. Last week, seven years after their kidnapping, Joy and Lydia graduated from  Southeastern University in Lakeland, Florida, the United States of America. In an interview on GMA3,  an American daytime news programme broadcast by ABC,  Joy and Lydia share their experiences as transcribed by VICTOR AYENI GMA3: First of all congratulations to you on your graduation. A group (Boko Haram) was trying to stop women, stop girls from getting educated, and now you two both have college degrees. What an incredible accomplishment. So I am so proud and so happy for both of you. And Joy, I want to begin with you, because I know you’ve shared your story about how you were able to escape. Can you give us an idea of how you were able to do that, given the circumstances? JOY: Sure. Even at that moment, we were all in the back of the trucks like three different trucks they took us in. I just remembered wondering if I would ever be able to see my family or loved ones again. And I was thinking of what my mom would do at that moment, and my answer came back to be prayer. So I did pray and like five minutes after my prayers, there was a car that the Boko Haram people were in. It couldn’t move anymore, so they needed to fix it due to the fact that they drove far away from town and were far away, they couldn’t go back and steal another car. So they had to go back and fix it. Before they  surrounded us, later they relaxed.  There was no one around to see us jump out. And I remember I heard a voice in my head saying, ‘jump out.’ I looked down and I thought that that was a crazy idea because to get into the truck we had to use a small-sized car to get in and help each other to climb the truck, because it was so big. The truck was speeding because they just stole a bunch of girls. I was like, ‘If I tried to jump out, I’m going to die.’ I kept on hearing this voice repeatedly saying ‘jump out.’ I listened. At that moment, I made up my mind that if I jumped out, I’m going to live because of how terrible this looks. So I was at the point of decision, asking myself  “do I want to go with these people or I want to die.” I chose to die actually.  That’s how I made the decision to jump out of that truck. So that’s how I jumped out. GMA3: What a decision. It was what you thought was between two different versions of ways of dying. In fact, you were able to jump out and run to your freedom. GMA3:  Lydia, I’m curious, once you were able to get free to run and you were back in the arms of your parents, how did you make that transition from the most frightening moment of your life to trying to get back into some sort of normalcy? Lydia: After I jumped out, I personally decided I was not going to go back to school anymore, because they (Boko Haram) advised us that wherever we went, they were going to find us. So I was under the impression that “okay, school is no longer in my picture, because if I go they will find me.” So I decided to stay with my parents until they called Joy and I to come to the American Embassy, to talk to congress. That was how I was able to change my mind to come here because they did tell us that America is a safe country; nobody would  come and kidnap us. That was how I was able to reconsider my decision. But on top of that, before the decision, my parents and I, and actually all the people in Chibok would have to leave the town by 6pm to go out to the bush to sleep, because people were under the impression that the Boko Haram would come back again. So it was actually hard. Even till now, Boko Haram still attacks some villages and people sleep out, still having the fear of that. So I didn’t feel safe. GMA3: It is hard to imagine what you all have been through, physically, emotionally, mentally, and then at the same time, Joy, so many highs and lows, but walking across that stage, what did it feel like when you received that college diploma despite all you’ve been through? Joy: It was awesome! I felt great. I felt great because I remembered being told that I would not even be able to finish high school and I was very dumb and I would not be able to get there. All those harsh words at the time tore me down and made me so discouraged, but I didn’t give up. At the time, I used to go to high school classes with everyone else and also taking GED (General Education Development) classes in the side and stuff like that. I never gave up or listened to the hateful talks. So walking on that stage last Friday, it felt great actually to poke those who had told me I could never graduate back to like wow. You know what I mean? It was exciting to walk on that stage after being told you can’t do it. GMA3: They say ‘the best revenge is success’ and it looks like you accomplished that. Then I’m curious, what else, what next? You’ve got your diploma, you’ve got your degree, where is your future heading? Lydia: I got my degree in Legal Studies which means Pre-Law, so I’m trying to get my master’s  again in the SEU in Human Services. Thanks again to SEU for offering me the opportunity to further my future like my education, so I’m grateful for that. I’m going to Arts school after I’m done with my masters. Source: ABC’s GMA3