Sixty-three-year-old Mr Marcelinus Chiwueze is the father of a 300L Law student of the Imo State University, Kingsley Chiwueze, whose corpse was found in a morgue, five days after he was declared missing. The bereaved father speaks about his loss in this interview with CHIDIEBUBE OKEOMA What is your name? My name is Marcelinus Chiwueze. I am the father of Kingsley Uchenna Chiwueze, the 300L Law student of Imo State University, Owerri, whose body was found in a mortuary five days after he was declared missing. He is my first child and son. I am from Amakpuruedere in Izombe in the Oguta Local Government Area of Imo State. I am a farmer and I am 63 years old. In which particular morgue was his body found? It was the morgue of  Umuguma General Hospital, Owerri. The body was discovered five days after Kingsley was declared missing in Owerri and his line was unreachable. What really happened to him? On Saturday, April 23 he called me to, as usual, request for money and I sent him N5,000. Two days later, I called him but his phone was switched off. I called him again, it was still switched off. I asked his immediate younger brother, Christian Chibueze, to call him, he did and also said his line was switched off. I asked my brother who is a Revd Father in the Catholic Church, Michael Chibueze, to call him, he called my son yet the line was switched. That was when we started being apprehensive and worried about his whereabouts. The Revd Father went to his hostel days later and discovered that his room was locked with a key and by then his mates in school had declared him missing with his photographs and particulars made available to the public. Then on Saturday, May 1, he was found dead in the morgue. Who broke the news to you? On that faithful Saturday, I went for Christian fathers’ meeting in our church in my village because I am a member of Catholic Men’s Organisation. When I came back from the meeting, the youths came and told us that my son had been killed, with his picture all over Internet. I didn’t understand it. They said the news of his death and his pictures had gone viral on the social media. This is my son, my first son and child that I sent to the Imo State University in Owerri to study Law. Look at me now, a poor farmer. This is a poor family but as a farmer who knows the value of education, my wife and I vowed that even if meant that we would go hungry for our son to graduate and become an influential lawyer in society, we would do that and that was what we had been doing before they killed him. I always called him to know his needs in school and I provided the ones I could. Have you gone to see his corpse? I have not gone to see his corpse in the morgue. My younger brother, the Revd Father and others were the ones who went to see and confirm that it is his corpse. I have also not seen his pictures circulating online. I do not want to see them. I don’t even have the mental composure to see them. How do I accept that my son, who would have become a lawyer in two years’ time, is dead? (I saw him as) my old age investment’s benefit. I was going hungry to train him so that he would help to train his five younger siblings and take care of me and his mother in our old ages. Do you know what led to his death? According to my brothers who went to the morgue, he was shot three times on the back, in the region of his buttocks. He also had a wound on his head. This is very devastating for me, my wife and the entire family. This is an abomination because my father – his grandfather – is still alive though he is blind. We are being forced to bury a son, a light of the family, who should have been alive to give us, his parents, befitting burial rites. Who took his corpse to the morgue? I don’t know but I heard that the attendants said the people who saw his corpse on the road brought it to the mortuary. This is a narration I never wished to give. Discussing the killing of my son, one with a bright future, is too disturbing for me. I am weak, as we speak. Just look at his mother, she hasn’t been herself ever since we heard the sad news. See his siblings, especially my first daughter, she had been crying and rolling on the ground. Tears and sorrow are now our meal. We can’t explain this. I wish it becomes a dream and I am woken up as soon as possible. Those who killed my son did that to get at me. They did it to get at my family. They may be envious that sooner than later, I would be addressed as father of lawyer. They might have done it to get at a poor farmer like me but I have taken a petition against them before God. I have left it for God. God is the perfect judge, let Him give the perfect judgment in this my son’s case. When was the last time you saw him? That was in January. He told me that he wouldn’t be coming back home frequently as usual. According to him, COVID-19 affected academic activities last year and they needed to be focused in school. That was the reason he hadn’t come home since January. But we always spoke on the phone. We spoke on the phone two days before he went missing and was eventually found dead five days later. Did he share some of his future dreams with you? He shared a lot of dreams with me. He told me how he would make the family proud. He told me that he was going to help train his younger siblings upon graduation. He had a dream to become a very influential lawyer, who will use his position to get justice for people, especially the underprivileged and the downtrodden. He told me he would challenge the status quo and work to add value to society. He told me as someone from a poor family, he would focus on his education, help his family, community and Imo State. Did he tell you he was contesting in an election in school? He didn’t tell me he was contesting in another election. I am not aware of it. I am only aware of the election he won. He won election as the President of Oguta Undergraduates Students’ Association. I am not aware he was contesting for the post of the Senate President of the National Union of Imo State Students. I only heard about it now that he is dead. People said his killing could be cult-related. My son was never a cultist. This family is a Christian one. I just told you that my direct sibling, my younger brother is a Revd Father. God forbid, I wish you knew him. My son was never a cultist and he wasn’t into any cult-related activities. He is my son and I can vouch for him. Those who killed him must have done that to get at a poor farmer like me. They can’t kill my son and still try to rubbish his name by tagging him a cultist. He was never a cultist. God will judge every human. How do you want justice served? I do not want any court case. Let God judge as it is written in the Bible. If the government wants to help me get justice, they should go ahead but as a family we have decided to leave everything to God. I have already told the police that I don’t want to pursue any court case. But I know that those who killed my son will never escape the wrath of God. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com