Family members and friends of Emediong Davies and Saturday Okon are in distress over the disappearance of the duo in the Ikot-Ekpene Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State. PUNCH Metro gathered that Davies, a National Diploma 2 student of the Federal Polytechnic, Nekede, in Imo State, was at his parents’ residence because of the ongoing strike by members of the Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics. His friend, Okon, who owns a motorcycle, was said to have conveyed him to a destination in the Obot-Akara Local Government of Akwa Ibom State to deliver a job for one of his clients in the area when the two of them got missing. A Twitter user, @truthfully83, who was appalled by the sudden disappearance of Davies and Okon, raised the alarm on social media about their whereabouts. Davies’s brother, Peter, said the duo’s names were on the list of people arrested when the police stormed the alleged camp of the Indigenous People of Biafra in the Essien-Udim Local Government Area of the state. He stated that the camp was located on the way to their destination in the Obot-Akara Local Government Area, adding that his brother and his friend were on their way to the local government to deliver an artwork to a client. Peter said, “My brother returned home on May 12 because of the ASUP strike. He went to deliver an artwork somewhere in the Obot-Akara Local Government Area the next day. Before getting to destination, they would pass the Essien-Udim Local Government Area. “His friend, Saturday Okon, conveyed him on his motorcycle. Since then, we haven’t heard from them. We know that the area is not safe, so we became worried. While searching for him, we saw a report circulated on social media that he was among the people arrested when the police raided the IPOB camp in the Essien-Udim Local Government Area.” Peter explained that when their parents visited the police station about his missing brother and his friend, the police said they were not in custody despite listing them among the people arrested during the raid on the IPOB camp. “So, my parents went to the Ikot-Ekpene Police Station the following day to inform the police about the report. We also reported at the state police command headquarters, Ikot Akpan Abia, but the police said Davies and Okon were not in their custody,” he stated. When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Odiko Macdon, said he had no information on the case. “I don’t have any information on it yet. I’m not supposed to know everyone in the cell. I will find out about the case and try to look at it,” he said. However, he had yet to get back to our correspondent as of the time of filing this story.    ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com