Can you briefly introduce yourself? My name is Emmanuel Isika. I am a social entrepreneur and a problem solver who can’t stop transforming and impacting lives. I am also a growth hacker who believes in the power of youths in transforming the world. I founded the Youth Initiative for Economic Empowerment, a non-profit organisation, to tackle Africa’s biggest problem – unemployment and poverty – and also to digitise Africa. Through YIEE, I am bridging the gap between those who earn decent wages and those who do not; those who are employed and those who are not; those who have access to technology and those who do not; those from a traditional background and those from a non-traditional background; as well as entrepreneurs who have access to mentors, funds and opportunities and those who don’t. We have helped over 20 youths get access to jobs and opportunities. We have raised our community to 1,000 youths and reached out to over 3,000 youths. We have also introduced youths to employees and recruiters working for top companies like Google, Microsoft, Amazon, AT&T, the United Nations, TEDx, Facebook and a host of others. We create cultural diversity and inclusion by bringing together people from various continents. We also promote sustainable development for 5,000 youths through our programmes. What inspired your passion for youth empowerment? It emanated from my experience coming from an under-represented community. All that my community could offer in terms of youth employment was becoming a schoolteacher. I asked myself a sincere question: ‘Can I survive on a teacher’s salary, paying for social amenities, housing, food, clothing and  more?’ I realised that with a monthly salary of N25,000, I would live in extreme poverty. This drove me to pursue a degree in Computer Science and put my best into it. I recall seeking an internship placement for a friend and submitting letters to various companies from Ogun State to Lagos State. I wasn’t even allowed by the gatemen to get onto their premises sometimes. Till today, none of the companies has got back to my friend. When the Federal University of Technology, Akure, which I attended, gave us internship letters to begin our search for internship placements, it affected my mental health negatively. I had no connection with anyone in technology companies and I got no one that would guarantee me a placement, unlike others. I felt doomed. The 10-month Academic Staff Union of Universities strike and the COVID-19 break was a period of learning, developing capacity and emergence for myself. During that period, I began a thorough information search on successful individuals from under-represented backgrounds. I came across Jonathan Javier, founder of Wonsulting. I learnt about his success principle in terms of securing a job with good pay – creating an irresistible curriculum vitae, getting past the interview stage, salary negotiation and value addition to the company. After three months of learning, I landed an internship placement in two weeks. So far, I have interned with five companies that pay handsomely. Some weeks ago, I got a full-time offer from Foreign Admits, an international company in India. Amazingly, I am still a fourth year student. I discovered education is not an end but a means to an end. This means being educated cannot get you a job but can only give you an edge. What are your thoughts about the notion of “lazy Nigerian youths” made popular by the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.)? There are two angles to the phrase “lazy Nigerian youths.” Nigerian youths are lazy in terms of information and opportunity search. I will say this is absolutely correct because Africans are being embedded with an entitlement mentality. Youths feel because they are Nigerian, they should get free housing, free food, free education and everything else for free. No government across the globe provides all these for free. One of the main responsibilities of the government is to make opportunities available. It is the duty of the citizens to look out for these opportunities. Take the United States Government for instance. It provides loans to complete one’s education, which one repays after he/she starts working. But if we’re looking at it from the angle of Nigerian youths being lazy in terms of hard work and resilience, I would say the President was wrong. Going back to the speech made by the President three years ago, he said, “Their claim is that Nigeria has been an oil-producing country so they should sit and do nothing, then get housing, health care, education free.” So, the President is referring to the first clause, which says Nigeria youths are lazy in terms of information and opportunity search. The average Nigerian youth has the mindset that having a degree is equivalent to getting a job, which is totally wrong. They believe that when they are out of school, there will be a job waiting for them. Youths that don’t go out of their way to search for opportunities or add value to their lives by learning a skill that will keep them relevant for the future of work, and harness opportunities are lazy mentally, although they might be hardworking. Success in this century is not by hard work alone but by “brain work” too. What do you think are the implications of the recent rise in unemployment to 33.3%? According to QZ Media, we have over 500,000 graduates from Nigerian tertiary institutions yearly; only 30,000 plus get jobs and the rest are left with nothing. The unemployment rate will be tripled by 2025 if nothing is done. A survey carried out by StearBusiness also shows that there is a higher rate of unemployment among those with degrees (bachelor’s, master’s and PhD) than school certificate holders. Why is this? We are embedded with a mentality that immediately after school, we will get a job, but things don’t work like that. The mentality of Africans needs to change, that it is every individual’s responsibility to seek knowledge and opportunities that will lead them into getting a productive career. Unemployment will not be defeated by the Federal Government initiative to create jobs. Although people are complaining that there are no jobs, a survey carried out by ManGroup shows that one in every 10 employers says getting a qualified candidate with the right skills is difficult. One major reason for the lack of jobs is lack of ability to learn and harness information. When individuals know how to retool themselves, search for opportunities and turn these opportunities into jobs or harness them, then that very individual has learned the means to stop being unemployed. You describe yourself as a hacker, which is often viewed through the lens of criminal activity in this part of the world. Can you shed some light on this? Hacking simply means gaining unauthorised access to the system. It isn’t a criminal offence as people assume it to be. Companies in the telecommunications, technology, and software industries pay handsomely for security and protection from hackers by hackers. There are three types of hackers. The first are the white hackers and these people perform system and unit testing to ensure maximum security. We also have the grey hackers who are external bodies or individuals that break into a system, and leak the faults or bugs to the company or intelligence agency for the purpose of strengthening the system because no system is 100 per cent secure. Finally, there are black hackers. These are the notorious set of hackers that break into a system for the purpose of exploitations. The #EndSARS protests saw thousands of youths taking to the streets and it has been the subject of much debate. What are your thoughts on that moment in time? We need to shift focus from whether it was laudable or extreme. Instead, our focus should be on “what did we achieve through the #EndSARS protest?” A lot was achieved. Those in the authorities that killed protesters were sacked; police salaries were increased when they were promoted; those unjustly arrested were released; and most importantly, solidarity was achieved. The #EndSARS protest brought about a united youth. Everyone was with one voice but immediately the protesters were off the streets, communication ceased. One main reason for this is that there was no mechanism that brought together all Nigerians after the protest. Creating a community-based platform would have been a game changer for all. COVID-19 has impacted the digital space significantly, particularly due to increased dependency on digital solutions such as payment services. Do you see this as a win or a loss for Nigeria? Nigeria experienced a rapid boost in the digital space due to COVID-19. For example, e-commerce is projected to be a $75bn industry in Africa with Nigeria leading with a large percentage by 2025. This indicates that COVID-19 was a blessing in disguise for Nigeria’s digital economy. Various companies, not excluding YIEE, were birthed during the COVID-19 (pandemic) with the aim of helping others. Nigeria’s economy continues to be driven by the oil sector. What are the implications of this, especially in a fast-evolving world? Having a single income is not a good way to grow a business. The nation’s economy is a business and when a business has a single source of revenue with an increasing demand from employees, operation, recruitment and more, sooner or later, that business will fall. This is why there is a need for diversification. There is an urgent need for Nigeria to diversify its economy to avoid the fall of the nation in subsequent years. More of the budget should be targeted towards diversification as a means to nurture and grow the economy. Nigeria should invest more in the digital economy and ensure it takes its stand. When YIEE spoke to the President of the United Nations General Assembly, Volkan Bozkir, he said, “In 2030, there will be 230 million jobs in Africa due to the digital economy, with decent pay that require 630 million training and billions of investment.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com