An ex-banker based in Gwagwalada, Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, John Onwurah, is struggling to fight off kidney failure and live happily with his wife and four kids. To pull through the life-threatening ailment, the 42-year-old native of Anambra State needs about N11m for kidney transplant and medication but has only been able to raise N5m. A medical report dated January 28, 2021 and signed by a consultant nephrologist, Dr Ameh A., indicated that Onwurah “is being managed for chronic kidney disease and would be needing kidney transplant.” Onwurah told City Round that he started falling ill constantly in 2017 and was treating malaria and typhoid. He said when his health deteriorated in November 2017 and he could no longer work, he was taken to Gwagwalada Specialist Hospital for a comprehensive checkup which revealed that he is suffering from chronic kidney disease. He said, “I had been managing it since that time and was on a monthly checkup. In December 2020, the ailment got out of hand; it brought me down completely. The doctors said it was time for kidney transplant but I needed to commence dialysis immediately. “In February, I started using Zenith Medical and Kidney Centre where I plan to do the transplant. I am a chartered accountant. I worked with a bank for 11 years but resigned to pursue further education so I could switch my career to lecturing. Then this kidney failure issue came up and put a hold on my dreams.” Onwurah said he started soliciting funds to carry out the surgery and was able to raise N5m which had been deposited at the hospital. He added, “The estimated bill for the surgery is N9,090,000 and N2,073,600 for post-transplant treatment medication. I am appealing to Nigerians for help. I have four children and a wife who I am supposed to cater for. I don’t want them to suffer.” Donations for Onwurah’s treatment can be made to his Fidelity Bank account with the name: John Onyeka Onwurah and account number: 6239060359. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com