The management of the Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba Akoko, Ondo State, on Thursday, said it would investigate the reason behind the death of one its students, Feranmi Fasunle. Feranmi died after allegedly consuming a substance believed to be an insecticide on Thursday. It was gathered that the 200-level student of the Department of Political Science consumed the insecticide on Wednesday in her room and was later rushed to the school’s health centre, where she was referred to the Federal Medical Centre, Owo, where she passed away on Thursday. The reason for the suicide could not be ascertained. It was being insinuated in some quarters that the deceased had relationship issues, but her friends refuted this and said she had no boyfriend. The Head of Media and Protocols, AAUA, Mr Victor Akinpelumi, described the student’s death as unfortunate, saying there was an indication that Feranmi committed suicide for a reason not related to relationship matters. He said “It is true that she committed suicide. We have not been officially briefed, but the only detail we have is that she consumed an insecticide and was later rushed to the health centre and from there, she was referred to the Federal Medical Centre in Owo. “The incident happened on Wednesday and we have not carried out our findings to ascertain if she committed suicide over relationship issues. But from what we gathered from the medical officers in Owo and her friends, she had no boyfriend. “The doctor, who spoke to me, said those who brought her said they were close to her and that she was not involved in any relationship. So, why she did that to herself is what we don’t know yet. “We will react later if we know why she took that decision to take her own life.” The state Police Public Relations Officer, Tee-Leo Ikoro, while sympathising with the bereaved family, said no official report had been made about the incident to the command. He said, “If you attempt suicide, that is an offence; we will look for you, arrest and prosecute you. If you commit suicide, it is not an offence, because there is no one to be arrested, except it is discovered that the suicide was induced by another person. “We sympathise with her parents, who have suffered this much to send her to school, and at 200-level when they were hoping that she would soon come out in flying colours, she killed herself. For whatever reasons, she made a very wrong decision and she ended it that way. “I do not think they reported the matter to the police. I have not heard from any police station that a formal report was made. I only heard about it on social media and I have gone through all the stations that are supposed to give the information and none of them have given such a report.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com