American pop star, Demi Lovato, has announced that she wants to be identified as non-binary. This means that she will now be addressed using the pronouns they/them from now on. The 28-year-old said on Twitter that the decision had come after “a lot of healing and self-reflective work”. Lovato, in a lengthy tweet, wrote, “Every day we wake up, we are given another opportunity and chance to be who we want and wish to be. I’ve spent the majority of my life growing in front of all of you… you’ve seen the good, the bad, and everything in between. Not only has my life been a journey for myself, but I was also living for those on the other side of the cameras. “Today is a day I’m so happy to share more of my life with you all. I am proud to let you know that I identify as non-binary and will officially be changing my pronouns to they/them moving forward. This has come after a lot of healing and self-reflective work.
“I’m still learning and coming into myself & I don’t claim to be an expert or a spokesperson.”(sic) According to Lovato, sharing this news opens another level of vulnerability for her, but she is doing it for those out there that have not been able to share who they truly are with their loved ones.
She said, “Please keep living in your truths and know I am sending so much love your way xoxo.” A report from Transequality.org noted that most people are either male or female. It added that some people do not neatly fit into the categories of “man” or “woman,” or “male” or “female.”
For instance, some people have a gender that blends elements of being a man or a woman, or a gender that is different from either male or female. Some people do not identify with any gender. Some people’s gender changes over time. People whose gender are not male or female use many different terms to describe themselves, with non-binary being one of the most common. Other terms include genderqueer, agender, bigender, and more. None of these terms means exactly the same thing – but all speak to an experience of gender that is not simply male or female.
Non-binary people are not confused about their gender identity or following a new fad – non-binary identities have been recognized for millennia by cultures and societies around the world.