The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Imo State Command, has busted an illegal oil bunkering site and apprehended six suspected pipeline vandals. The state Commandant, NSCDC, Mr Besong Ogar, disclosed this while interacting with journalists in Owerri on Wednesday. Ogar said the command embarked on the operation after “serious information gathering and substantiated intelligence.” He stated that four trucks laden with petroleum products and 11 smaller vehicles were intercepted during the operation. PUNCH Metro gathered that the area, where the site is located, was cordoned off as part of strategies to ensure a successful operation. “We acted on intelligence; we took our time, cordoned off the area, apprehended six suspects and intercepted trucks laden with petroleum products,” he said. Ogar stated that the command would not relent in its efforts to rid the state of illegal bunkering activities, adding that there would be no hiding place for those who engage in such. He said, “Vandals should leave Imo State, because there will be no safe place for them here. We will not let them destroy the state. “This is just the beginning and soon, other areas outside the capital city will know that we are on the ground and that we mean business.” The NSCDC boss called on residents to avail the command of credible information on the locations of vandals and to go about their lawful activities without fear of harassment. Similarly, the Bayelsa State Command of the NSCDC has arrested four suspected dealers in adulterated petroleum products. This was contained in a statement on Wednesday by the state Commandant, NSCDC, Christiana Abiakam-Omanu. She said the suspects were apprehended by operatives of the command’s Anti-Vandal Unit on the Amassoma Road. Abiakam-Omanu said her men apprehended the suspects and also recovered a tanker laden with 45,000 litres of liquid suspected to be diesel. She said, “Based on credible intelligence, the Anti-Vandal Unit of the command stormed a filing station along Amassoma Road in the Yenagoa Local Government Area. “The name of the filling station is Rochester. The four suspects were arrested with 45,000 litre-capacity tanker with number plate AHD 671 XR with liquid suspected to be diesel.” The commandant said the vandals were taken to the state command headquarters for interrogation and would be charged after the conclusion of investigation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com