The stories about the 21 offices of the Independent National Electoral Commission have not been pleasant. Eavesdropper notes that first it’s the issue about torching of police stations that is giving many a headache now that fire consuming INEC offices has been added to the spate of insecurity gripping the country. Reports show that states mostly affected by the incidents include Akwa Ibom (four), Abia (three) Anambra (two) and Imo (two). Fire also affected the commission’s offices in Borno, Ebonyi, Jigawa, Kano, Ondo, Plateau, Rivers and Abuja. Also, last Thursday, INEC office in the Obollo-Afor, Udenu Local Government Area of Enugu State, was destroyed by fire last Thursday and on Sunday, the commission’s headquarters in the state was gutted by fire. In all, about 21 offices of the commission have been destroyed by fire. It goes without saying that the development could threaten many things including the 2023 elections especially given the way things are usually shoddily handled in the country. Like the attacked police stations whose number keeps increasing, efforts should have been made to protect other offices as the number increases. There is no point waiting to see if such development would crease without taking action. It’s glaring that, as usual, fire brigade approach would be taken to curb the development. But regardless of whether the cases cease or not, arrest ought to be made and those found guilty punished severely for their criminal and unpatriotic action. Nigeria should learn to do things right. Security agents were not even supposed to be mobilised before going after the arsonists to make them bear the brunt of their action. Eavesdropper is aware that once people are not punished for infractions, the chances that the action would be repeated are high. The money that will go into rebuilding the offices amid the poor state of the nation’s economy and inefficient leadership is better imagined. It’s disturbing that many things happen in Nigeria that makes Eavesdropper thinks if the country is part of the world as everything it does is usually surprising. To the arsonists, they needed to be psychologically evaluated once arrested because it’s inconceivable that some persons of a group would think the torching of vital offices as that of the INEC is a good behaviour. Nigeria must inspire confidence in the citizens by building strong institutions. There is no way it can aspire to be among great nations if it continues to exhibit crookedness in act and policies. The commission itself has a lot to do by engaging critical stakeholders to halt the situation. It ought to have sent a strong warning to the arsonists by taking some drastic security actions when the act was first noticed. The nauseating issue has been allowed to tarry and this is the reason why the perpetrators continue in their act unchecked. The citizens also have a role to play in this case. Those who engage in the act live among the people. There is nothing bad if they report their findings to the security agents to take action. If Nigeria will be the country everyone desires, there should be a conscious effort to make it work. The bad ones You must have read the reports about another one accused of fraud thus further damaging the country’s battered image. It’s disturbing that as many people are working tirelessly to put the country on the world map with outstanding acts, some unpatriotic ones continue to engage in shameful acts. Eavesdropper wants to encourage the good ones not to be tired of doing fantastic things to make the country proud. At least, the fact remains that many Nigerians overseas are doing wonderful things in diverse human endeavours from sports, aviation, education, arts, football, journalism and other areas. Not long ago, there was a Nigerian in Japan who saw some money in a wallet and returned it to the owner. This is the way of many Nigerians. To those who are hell-bent on damaging the country’s reputation, their evil acts would continue to be exposed no matter how hard they try to conceal them. Why some people find it easy to revel in useless acts is still surprising.  There’s no doubt that the country is hard and bad governance is replete in several sectors of the economy. But it can never be a justification to engage in criminal behaviours. For those who take that as a pastime, you may think you are rubbishing the country’s image alone.  No, you end up ending your future and soiling whatever you may have gathered through dubious acts. Look around you, would you have desired the current state of those leading fake ways of life to the extent that they made struggling Nigerians look like lazy individuals? Take things easy. Engage in only genuine activities because hard work pays. Governments at both the state, federal and local levels should also redirect and re-orientate the people to quality acts. That is one of the ways to build a great nation.