Prominent legislators, incumbent and former governors have continued to send their condolences, following the untimely death of the Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Ibrahim Attahiru, and 10 other military officers in a plane crash while attempting to land at the Kaduna International Airport on Friday evening. The officers were en route to Kaduna State ahead of Saturday’s passing-out parade of soldiers from the Nigerian Army Depot in Zaria. A cross section of political leaders across the country, who paid tribute to the late COAS, commiserated with the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), and families and friends of the departed. The President of the Senate, Ahmad Lawan, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Ola Awoniyi, described the loss as a national disaster of immense proportion, adding that the unfortunate development had thrown the entire nation into mourning. The statement read, “I extend my heartfelt condolences to the Chief of Defence Staff and the entire members of the Armed Forces of Nigeria over this tragedy. This incident is saddening, coming at a time there is a fresh momentum in the nation’s war against insurgency, banditry and other violent crimes.” He added that Attahiru and the other officers would be remembered as heroes. Also, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Lanre Lasisi, on Friday night, described the deaths as unfortunate. Gbajabiamila added that having taken over from the immediate past COAS, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, a few months ago, Attahiru had shown a lot of commitment in tackling the security situation in the country. The Chairman, Senate Committee on Army, Ali Ndume, on Saturday, described Attahiru and members of his team as a highly dedicated and patriotic Nigerians who had already commenced the implementation of strategies that the Nigerian Army needed to tackle external and internal forces against the country. The Chairman of the House Committee on Defence, Mr Babajimi Benson; the Chairman of the House Committee on Army, Abdulrazak Namdas; and the Chairman, House Committee on Air Force, Shehu Koko, also sympathised with the families, the Nigerian Army and other military formations, describing the deaths as a colossal loss to the nation. Meanwhile, the Ekiti State Governor, Dr Kayode Fayemi, on Saturday, said the late COAS was “a patriotic and fearless officer who was always ready go the extra mile to protect the sovereignty of his beloved country, a quality that was the hallmark of his military career.” Praying for consolation of the bereaved, Fayemi added, “The COAS’ determination had emboldened the military personnel and spurred them on to reclaim some territories hitherto lost to the terrorists.” The Governor of Rivers State, Nyesom Wike, on Saturday, said he was saddened by the deaths, saying Attahiru, who had visited the Government House, Port Harcourt on March 23, articulated his vision and strategy to end insurgency in the country with clarity. The Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, also commiserated with Buhari, the Nigerian Army, and the deceased’s families and friends, describing him as a dutiful and committed soldier, who served Nigeria passionately. The Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Muhammed Onogwu, commiserated with Buhari and the late COAS’ family, friends and associates, describing him as a hero. Also, the Osun State Governor, Adegboyega Oyetola, on Saturday, said the Army chief was brave, assertive and distinguished.” The Borno State Governor, Prof Babagana Zulum, who attended Attahiru’s funeral prayers on Saturday in company with his predecessor, Senator Kashim Shettima; and Senator Abubakar Kyari (Borno North), noted that the late COAS was committed to ending the Boko Haram crisis in the North-East. Governor Ahmadu Fintiri of Adamawa State also described the demise as shocking and painful, saying the unfortunate incident had denied the nation of the contributions of one of Nigeria’s finest officers. Similarly, the Gombe State Governor, Muhammadu Yahaya, and Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State commiserated with Buhari and urged the Federal Government to immediately commence investigation into the matter, while praying for eternal rest for the departed. The Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, in a statement on Saturday, described the loss of Attahiru and the other military officers as a major setback to the fight against insecurity in the country, while Governor Darius Ishaku of Taraba State condoled with the families and the Armed Forces. The Yobe State Governor, Mai-Mala Buni, said he was shocked, heartbroken and deeply saddened by news of the air crash and condoled with the President; the Vice President, Prof Yemi Osibanjo; the Nigerian Army; and the families of the deceased officers. Governor Ben Ayade of Cross River State also mourned Attahiru in a statement, describing his death as a tragic and monumental loss to Nigeria and Cross River State in particular. A former Governor of Kaduna State, Senator Ahmed Makarfi, expressed shock over the deaths, saying Attahiru was a “thoroughbred” officer who came to reposition the nation’s army in confronting the current security challenges in the land. Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, has commiserated with the President, Major General Mohamadu Buhari , retd, on the death of the COAS’ death on Friday. Abdulrazaq in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Rafiu Ajakaye, described the death of the 11 military top brass in an air crash as a national tragedy. The Ondo State Governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, has described tAttahiru’s deaths and other officers in Friday’s plane crash as shocking and a huge loss to the nation. This was contained in a statement issued by the governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Mr Olabode Olatunde, on Saturday. The Nigeria Governors’ Forum, the All Progressives Congress, the Progressives Governors’ Forum and the Peoples Democratic Party Governors Forum, on Saturday, mourned the late COAS and other servicemen. In separate statements on Saturday, the various groups expressed grief over the sudden death of the officers which they said died at a time their services were most needed. The Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency, Brig.-Gen. Buba Marwa (retd), in a condolence message by the agency’s Director, Media and Advocacy, Femi Babafemi, recalled his recent meeting with Attahiru, saying he was impressed with the late Army chief’s plans for tackling the security challenges confronting the country. Addition reports by John Alechenu, Sunday Aborisade, Leke Baiyewu, Abiodun Nejo, Gbenga Odogun, Bola Bamigbola, Kayode Idowu, Hindi Livinus, Chima Azubuike, Edward Nnachi, Abakaliki, John Charles,  Justin Tyopuusu, Dennis Naku, Kayode Idowu, Godwin Isenyo and Ada Wodu.    ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com