Lagos State Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development said it has extended development plans to 30 communities across different Local Government Areas of the state. The Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Dr Idris Salako, stated that the ministry prepared local/ action plans for the communities through the Lagos State Physical Planning Permit Authority. A statement by the Assistant Director, Public Affairs, Mukaila Sanusi, on Friday titled ‘LASG extends development plans to 30 communities’ said this was to ensure that no part of the state was without a plan. The communities that had their local/ action plans prepared , it stated, were Lafiaji Action Area Plan(2021-2031) in Eko District, Abule Oja Action Area Plan (2021-2031), Ajiwe Action Area Plan(2021-2031), Review of Maiyegun and Action Area Plan of an Extension to Aparakaja Casia/Abiodun Dada. The ministry also undertook the review of Ojodu Core Action Area Plan and prepared Ilo Awela Community Action Area Plan,  Igbogbo Core Action Area Plan and Ologunebi Excised Village Action Area Plan as well as Shasha Oguntade Action Area Plan and Ladipo Osoro Action Area Plan among others. Salako noted that the state would derive maximum benefits from the preparation of the action area plans, including the effective control and proper development guide within its jurisdiction, functional land use pattern and arrangements, good road networks while urban regeneration of the slum environment would be achieved. Other benefits were the provision of enabling environment for category of land uses such as industrial, commercial, institutional and residential as well as investments in a sustainable manner. The commissioner also explained that the development plans would bring about the provision of quality infrastructural developments within the planned area and guarantee a sustainable physical environment during the stipulated planning period. He added that in pursuit of the THEMES agenda, the ministry also prepared development guide plans for some excised villages in the state. “In same vein and with due cognition of the need to extend physical planning administration to non-schemed areas, development guide plans are being prepared to make the excised villages more sustainable,” he said. According to the commissioner, development guide plans were prepared for villages in different Local Government Areas of the state. The areas included Onimedu Eleputu, Lakowe, Adeba, Bogije, Igando-Oja and Awoyaya in Ibeju-Lekki LGA; Ajangbadi, Kemberi and Ketu Ijanikin in Ojo LGA;  Parafa and Gberigbe in Ikorodu LGA and; Sangotedo and Langbasa in Eti-Osa LGA. Development guide plans were also extended to Suberu-Oje in Alimosho LGA;  Apa (Parcel A) in Badagry LGA;  Ibowon in Epe LGA and Tedi in Amuwo-Odofin LGA. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com