You may recall in your African History class about how the British came and conquered the Dark African continent. I still remember my reading of the masterpiece on Africa by Walter Rodney, How Europe underdeveloped Africa. For me, it is a vivid reminder of the Europeans’ exploitation of and the atrocities committed in the African countries including Nigeria and stealing of its natural, economic and cultural resources during the colonial era. For example, in the cultural sphere in Nigeria, the British colonial government made and provided a conducive environment for its citizens to rob and steal many rare ancient artworks and sculptures from Nigeria in the 1600s. It was no secret that the British colonial government directly or indirectly aided and abetted the looted treasures, many of which are found in many museums in Great Britain, Germany and the United States. I vividly recollect having seen the artwork of the Olowo of Owo, His Royal Majesty, Oba Olateru Olagbegi II, on display at one of the Smithsonian Museums in Washington, D. C. You can imagine how many such Owo treasures were stolen during the British colonial era in Nigeria! And how many pieces of the artworks were scattered all over the world? I suggest that the Olowo of Owo, Oba Ajibade Gbadegesin Ogunoye III, working through his ODC on Culture and Tourism, should endeavour to take action in the search and locate the treasures that were looted from the ancient Owo Kingdom during the colonial era. But, the good news for Nigeria is the decision of the German Government to return the country’s looted treasures during the British colonial rule. As a lover of the Nigerian arts and culture, I am indeed excited about the good news of releasing and returning the stolen Benin bronzes from the ancient Benin Kingdom to the original owner of the treasures- Nigeria. As a neighbouring kingdom to the ancient Owo Kingdom, who knows if the arts from Owo are even among those being returned to Nigeria. Imagine that there are many rare Nigerian works of art that are stolen and found at 161 locations around the world (Source: Danielle Paquette, “Germany boosts effort to return Nigeria’s looted treasure,” The Washington Post, May 11, 2021, P. A12.). You may recall the loss and destruction of the works of ancient arts and sculptures following the fall of President Saddam Hussein in Iraq, owing to the military intervention by the George Bush administration, which invaded Iraq in 2003. Against this backdrop of history of massive stolen and destruction of arts in Iraq, I am concerned about the capacity of the Nigeria government to secure those returned looted treasures by the German government, particularly under the conflict conditions in the country. I guess for now, we just have to rejoice over the return of the looted Nigerian treasures from Germany. We shall cross the river whenever we get there. Also, I am concerned about the effort and ability of the international poachers and thieves of rare and ancient artworks and artifacts around the globe in taking advantage of the crisis in the country. By Dr Joel Ademisoye, Akungba Akoko, Ondo State