The Nigerian Institute of Marketing of Nigeria on Tuesday called on its members to continue to reinvent themselves by embracing digitalisation and adopting innovation to adapt to changes in the industry in the post-COVID-19 era. It said while the profession was not new to challenges and difficult times, the approach adopted by practitioners would reveal their levels of professionalism. The President and Chairman of Council of the NIMN, Prince Tony Agenmonmen, stated these while speaking at a press conference ahead of the annual marketing conference of the institute scheduled for Thursday in Lagos. “I even wrote an article which was published in some online newspapers, where I told our markers that yes, things may be difficult, but marketing does not need to go into isolation. So, we ran different programmes. “When you are challenged, difficult times will always come. For anybody who has been a marketing person, challenge is the game and how you respond is what tells whether you are a good marketing person or not, Agenmonmen said. He added, “So, COVID-19 came with its challenges, and of course, we ran programmes to tell our people what they should be doing now. If going digital is the way to go, go digital. “There are so many free programmes available – programmes that you would have paid for. But you cannot take advantage of them if you don’t even have internet connectivity. “So, invest in yourself; have a good phone or whatever device you want to use, look around and then attend these programmes. That we have been selling to our members and I can tell a lot of them are taking advantage and doing pretty well. “A lot of our members do not just attend; they are also offering the services and making money from them. I am happy that we have been able to be part of activating their thought process in terms of going that route.” The president said the NIMN had embarked on restructuring the institute, building brand equity and enforcing membership among marketing practitioners in the country. He also said the institute currently had about 1,000 members who were up-to-date with the payment of their subscription fee as of December 31, 2020. He noted that although the COVID-19 pandemic affected the operations of the institute, the outstanding salaries and gratuities of its current and former personnel had been paid. Agenmonmen added, “We have paid all the outstanding salaries and gratuities of all the employees, whether they are still in the institute, were disengaged or they retired. The situation is that much of the money we also owe corporate organisations, we have liquidated it. “The situation is that the biggest chunk of what we still owe out of that N80m is the N21m unremitted pension. But as of March this year, you have paid a little over N5m. “And I can say conveniently that by the time I’m handing over on Friday, we would have paid three-quarter of that money and would probably be left with about N5m of unremitted pension, which I’m sure whoever becomes the president would be able to handle.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com