EBONYI State Governor, David Umahi, on Sunday made a U-turn over the sit-at-home order by the Indigenous People of Biafra, calling on residents of the state, who wished to stay indoors on Monday (today) not to be afraid to do so, saying that they would not be penalised. Umahi who observed that it was the constitutional right of any person to remain at home anytime he so wished equally pointed out that it was the right of residents to go about their businesses, stressing that nobody could curtail their movement. The governor made these remarks in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media, Francis Nwaze, which was made available to journalists in Abakaliki. Umahi had earlier on Saturday threatened to seize any shop locked up by its owner as a result of the sit-at-home order issued by the Indigenous People of Biafra. The governor issued the warning during a live broadcast to mark his six years in office in Abakaliki, adding that the directive emanating from IPOB was an act of foolishness. He warned that any trader that refused to open his or her store on Monday would forfeit it, insisting that nobody could stop both vehicular and human movement in Ebonyi State. However, in what appeared to be a volte-face on the matter, the state government said, “The Government of Ebonyi State received several requests from some families and residents requesting that they would like to remain indoors on Monday, May 31, 2021, to organise private family prayers in honor of their loved ones who were murdered during the unfortunate civil war. “Following the foregoing, the Governor, David Nweze Umahi, who is highly in touch with the people, has directed that those who may wish to remain at home with their shop(s) locked should neither be penalised, nor their shop(s) seized as it is their constitutional right while the rights of those who may wish to go about their normal businesses should not be infringed upon as it is equally their constitutional right.” IPOB: Deal decisively with the troublemakers, Delta CP orders officers Meanwhile, the Delta State Police Command said it had deployed undercover police detectives across the state for the purpose of arresting anyone caught carrying Biafra flag. The acting Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Bright Edafe, said this in a statement on Sunday in Asaba. He said, “The Command is aware of the threat of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra and their intention of parading themselves in some parts of the state. “The Commissioner of Police, Delta State, Mohammed Ali, who is determined to maintain peace in the state, has urged officers and men of the state command to be on red alert, watchful, and deal decisively with the troublemakers. “The CP therefore warns that on no account should anybody be seen carrying or hoisting Biafra flag in whatever guise in the state.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com