The Minister of Environment, Dr Mohammed Abubakar, on Saturday convened an International Expert Meeting on Mangrove Restoration in the Ogoni region of the Niger Delta. In a statement by the ministry, it said that the meeting was focused on distilling special lessons for the restoration of mangrove forests in Ogoniland. Abubakar said the meeting was a turning point for mangrove ecosystems in Ogoniland. He said, “Using the knowledge and experience of the experts assembled here today, together, we will be able to restore the mangroves and improve the lives of the Ogoni communities who are affected every day by the devastating pollution.” The minister said the outcome of the meeting would lead to the creation of a strategy and conservation plan for the restoration of mangroves in Ogoniland. “In the course of the meeting, conditions and methods for successful replantation and recovery of mangrove habitats were discussed. International experts also provided their experiences from around the world and how they could be applied to the Niger Delta,” the minister said. The meeting which had in attendance experts from more than 20 different institutions was supported by the United Nations Environment Programme. A report by the UNEP found extensive damage to mangroves in its 2011 Environmental Assessment of Ogoniland. Impacts of the pollution varied from extreme stress to total destruction. In the most impacted areas, only the roots of the mangroves remained, with no stems or leaves. In most of the areas, the roots were completely coated in oil, sometimes with one centimetre or more of thick bituminous substance. Mangroves are ecologically significant and important to the livelihood and food security of communities in Ogoniland. The minister expressed optimism that the meeting would bring new momentum to the restoration efforts for mangrove ecosystems in Ogoniland. He said this would pave the way for healthy ecosystems and successful environmental remediation of areas affected by the pollution. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com