Minister of Industry, Trade and Commerce, Otunba  Adeniyi Adebayo, has urged organisations to recognise and motivate workers for increased productivity. He said that a motivated workforce would enhance the organisation’s output. The minister made this call at the maiden annual employers’ excellence awards of the Nigeria Employers’ Consultative Association in Lagos on Wednesday night. He said, “It is important to celebrate the Nigerian businesses who have contributed to our nation’s growth and economy. “I believe recognising employers would motivate and increase their output which would, in turn, go to their employees. “The productivity of any business is greatly impacted when paired with a motivated workforce.  Human resources are not only about employing the right people but also about placing the right person in the right place based on their skills for the right results.” In his remarks, President and chairman, NECA, Mr Taiwo Adeniyi, said, the major objective of the awards was to reward and celebrate the doggedness and resilience of organized businesses in Nigeria. “Nigerian enterprises have demonstrated social responsibility and fruitful partnership with government through the provision of employment opportunities for teeming youths and payment of taxes and levies to the government at all levels for developmental purposes,” he said. The Minister of State, Ministry of Labour and Employment, Festus Keyamo, said “This crucial occasion which comprises all the critical stakeholders in the industry would not have come at any better time than now when the Federal Government is working very assiduously to resuscitate the nation’s economy that was affected by the Global Covid-19 pandemic.” The awards, he said, would be a huge encouragement to those who survived the scourge of the pandemic as the previous year had been extremely tough for employers globally. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com