Financial analysts have urged the Federal Government to come up with relevant policies to combat insecurity in order to provide an enabling environment for investors. A financial analyst, Dr Samuel Nzekwe, said lack of infrastructure, embezzlement, and corruption are chasing investors away from the country. “The cost of governance is so high, consuming all the money the government could have used to develop infrastructure. “Within a government agency, you’ll see a PA to a minister and that PA will have a PA and the trend continues. In essence, there is a lot of duplication of offices, or positions, unnecessary duplications. “Embezzlement and corruption are the most significant causes of this decline. What we see are projects whose costs are inflated 50 times more than what they would require. For instance, a project that will be completed with N1m, it will be quoted for N20m to N40m. “All these factors are chasing investors away. Take for instance the case of Facebook, which opted to establish an office in Ghana rather than Nigeria,” Nzekwe stated. Another financial analyst, Prof Ovie Ogidiaka, said the country had not been friendly to investors due to a number of factors such as poor electricity and insecurity. “The last five years have been a no-no situation for investors. FDI has dropped and many investors would prefer neighbouring Ghana to Nigeria, no thanks to the deteriorating electricity, restiveness, and militancy that have bedevilled Nigeria,” Ogidiaka stated. Both financial analysts urged the Federal Government to provide an enabling environment for investors to strive, promote more private partnerships, build more infrastructures and diversify the economy so as to attract more investments and boost economic growth. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com