Twenty defendants on Thursday appeared before a special sitting of an Osun state Magistrates’ Court in Osogbo on charges ranging from kidnapping, armed robbery, defilement and stealing among others. The court session held at the Commissioner of Police Conference Hall in Osun Police Command headquarters, Osogbo, was meant to decongest the cell. Some of those arraigned are Mohammed Hammed, Abubakar Mohammed, Dogo Sallah and Arisu Abdullahi. The defendants, who appeared before the presiding magistrate, Dr Olusegun Ayilara, were either remanded in custodial centres or granted bail, while those arraigned for capital offence, were remanded, and their case files referred to the Ministry of Justice for legal advice. Out of the 20, four of them appeared before court for defiling minor and rape. Azzez Tajudeen, who was arrested on Sunday, April 11, 2021, in Ile-Ife, for defiling of a 14-year old imbecile, when asked by the court, why he committed the offence, said that he had not committed the act before he was caught. The 20-year-old butcher, who was shedding tears and pleading for the leniency of the court, had his case adjourned to Monday, June 14, 2021, for mention at Ile Ife Magistrates’ Court. Another defendant arraigned for defilement was Lekan Abolarinwa. The prosecutor, James Idoko, informed the court that he was arrested in Ile-Ife on Sunday, April 27, 2021, for defiling an eight-year-old girl. Abolarinwa, while responding to questions from the magistrate, said he could not explain why he defiled the minor, whom he said was resident near the shop where he was learning a trade. Ayilara adjourned the matter till Monday, June 14, 2021, and remanded the defendant in Ile-Ife Custodial Centre. An 18-year-old boy, Sodiq Abdulwasiu, who was arrested on April 29, 2021 for allegedly defiling a six-year old minor in Osogbo, also appeared before the court. The defendant, who did not have legal representative, was remanded in the Ilesha custodial Centre, as the case was adjourned till June 17, 2021. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com