The Niger Delta Power Holding Company has announced that it had signed an agreement with Eko Electricity Distribution Company Plc to deliver 300 megawatts of power to Ibeju-Lekki and other franchise areas in Lagos State. It said on Friday that the agreement, which was sealed in the presence of the Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, would see the NDPHC supply electricity directly to Eko Disco from its existing capacity. The Managing Director, NDPHC, Chiedu Ugbo, said the agreement was part of the NDPHC’s strategic plan to source alternative means to sell and ensure dispatch of its stranded power. Ugbo said the deal would also allow the EKEDC to explore innovative ways to unlock investment in infrastructure for improved supply to its customers. He was quoted in a statement issued in Abuja by the Head, Communication and Public Relations, NDPHC, Olufunke Nwankwo, as saying, “Our mutual objective is to work together to deliver the arrangements that will ensure safe, reliable and steady supply of power to customers in Ibeju-Lekki and other parts of EKEDC’s franchise area. “This collaboration is significant, considering the strategic importance of Lagos State as Nigeria’s commercial capital and host state for key industries in Nigeria. “It is also for this reason that we are pleased to be signing this document in the presence of Mr Governor, who is himself a key member of NDPHC’s Board of Directors, and whose state, Lagos, is one of our shareholders.” Ugbo said the partnership would help to satisfy customers with reliable power and achieve an enhancement of the network and infrastructure of the concerned Disco. “For EKEDC’s customers, their homes and industries can now enjoy reliable 24/7 power supply. For EKEDC’s investors and NDPHC’s shareholders, this project will deliver significant value,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com