A former governor of Imo State, Rochas Okorocha, on Sunday accused the state Police Command of illegally detaining his two associates. Okorocha in a statement issued by his Spokesperson, Sam Onwuemeodo, said the target was to link him (Okorocha) to the spate of killings and insecurity in the state. The statement identified the associates as Ojukwu Ukonu and Casmir Ugbo, adding that they were being held at the Anti-kidnapping facility of the state police command. The statement also disclosed that Ugbo’s wife was being held by the police without any charge preferred against her. The statement read, “About two days ago, two men; Mr. Ojukwu Ukonu and Mr. Casmir Ugbo, were arrested by policemen from the Anti-Kidnapping Department, Police Headquarters, Owerri, led by the O/C of that department. “The policemen had stormed the house of Mr. Ukonu and arrested him after they had searched his house and nothing was found. They had also detained the man since then. “The squad also stormed the house of Mr. Casmir Ugbo, searched his house and nothing was found. He was not around when they came. They arrested the wife. The man came back and reported himself. They also arrested the man, detained both the man and the wife. With the children left alone at home. “As we write, the two men have not been told the offence or the offences they committed for which they were arrested and detained. The two men have been members of Okorocha’s larger political family. That’s the crux of our concern with regard to the arrest. “We, therefore, appeal to the Commissioner of Police in the state to order the release of the two men. We know that at a time like the one we are into today, some people would hide under it to undo others, which is very unpatriotic and unadvisable.” The state Police spokesperson in the state, Orlando Ikeokwu, did not take calls to his mobile line and had also not replied a text message sent to him as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com