Men of Ogun State Police Command have arrested a 47-year-old woman, Olanshile Nasirudeen, for allegedly stabbing her husband, Jimoh Nasirudeen to death for impregnating another woman. The incident happened on Wednesday in Ijebu-Ode during an argument between the woman and her deceased husband. Our correspondent gathered that the woman was the fourth wife to the deceased before she reportedly stabbed her husband, a co-butcher, for impregnating another woman. It was further gathered that the woman worked in the same abattoir with the deceased. She reportedly got annoyed during an argument over a plan by the deceased to bring in another wife. The Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Abimbola Oyeyemi, disclosed this in a statement on Thursday. Oyeyemi said the woman stabbed her husband at the back joint of his left leg, thereby, cutting one of his veins. He explained that an argument ensued between the couple when the woman reportedly questioned the woman for getting pregnant with her husband. The PPRO added, “As a result the suspect picked a knife and stabbed the deceased in the back of his left leg, thereby, cutting one of his veins. “He was quickly rushed to a nearby hospital for first aid, and later transferred to Ijebu-Ode General hospital where he eventually gave up the ghost while receiving treatment, due to bleeding. “Upon the distress call, the DPO Obalende division, SP Murphy Salami, led his men to the scene but the suspect has taken to flight before their arrival. “She was subsequently traced and was eventually arrested in her hideout at Mobalufon area of Ijebu-Ode. “On interrogation, the suspect, who happened to be the fourth wife of the deceased, claimed that it was her husband who first slapped her simply because she asked his new wife her mission at her market stand. “The corpse of the deceased had been released to the family for burial in accordance with Islamic rites after the autopsy has been conducted on it.” Oyeyemi however said the commissioner of Police, Edward Ajogun, has ordered the immediate transfer of the suspect to the homicide section of the state Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department, for a discreet investigation and prosecution.