Ondo State-owned Sunshine Stars players on Thursday boycotted the team’s training in protest against eight months unpaid salaries. It was also learnt that the players threatened to snub Sunday’s trip to Uyo for their NPFL tie against Akwa United, before they were persuaded to embark on the journey Friday. The players, our correspondent learnt, reluctantly trained Friday morning, following a plea from head coach Gbenga Ogunbote. According to an official of the NPFL club, who spoke on condition of anonymity, the coaching crew and backroom staff of the Akure-based club are also owed 11 months salaries by the Ondo State Government, while players and officials of the state’s women’s team Sunshine Queens have reportedly not been paid for 12 months. ‘They (club officials) asked the players to travel to Uyo, that they will get their one month payment alerts. We got to Asaba and the players didn’t get the alerts and were angry. They have insisted they won’t play the game without being paid,” our source said. “You can’t blame the players for boycotting training; we are virtually living from hand to mouth. Nobody wants to loan us money any longer because we can’t even pay the loans we collected before,” our source said. “The club gets subventions every month and we learnt they have over N60m in the team’s account, but they don’t want to pay us.” Sunshine Stars have a long and unwanted record of players revolt over unpaid salaries and allowances. In June 2018, the players also boycotted training in protest against the failure of their employers to pay them their four months salaries and allowances. Four months earlier, some ex-players of the club prevented the team from training at the Ondo State Football Agency’s practice pitch in Akure, following the government’s failure to pay their sign-on fees for three seasons. The players also shunned a pre-season camp over five months unpaid salaries last October. In 2017, the Premier League outfit could not raise funds for the South-West pre-season tournament in Lagos. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com