The Ondo State Government has stopped the Deji of Akureland, Oba Aladetoyinbo Aladelusi, from installing Baales and Olus in the Akure North Local Government Area of the state. The government was said to have given the directive following some controversial chieftaincy matters which included the appointment of minor chiefs. It was gathered that the state government, through a letter from the state Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters, directed Aladelusi to maintain the status quo ante. Reacting, traditional rulers and village heads under the Association of Olus and Baales in the Akure North LGA, expressed satisfaction with the directive. The group, through a letter signed by their lawyer, Mr Femi Emodamori, and addressed to Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, also commended government’s directive that all actions leading to the creation of new communities from old ones should be stopped, while those already created should be reversed immediately. The letter said, “Upgrading the Olus and Baales in the duly recognised communities in the Akure North Local Government Area to the status of Obas, even if they are categorised in the least grade of recognised chiefs, just as the state government had successfully done in all the communities now in the Ifedore LGA, which were formerly part of the old Akure LGA. “By so doing, the community heads to be recognised as Obas would automatically become the prescribed authority for the appointment of minor chiefs in their respective communities, in line with paragraphs 10 and 11 of the Ondo State Government White Paper on Morgan Chieftaincy Review Commission of July 1981, which (is) unambiguous. “Fortunately, the recognised chiefs or Obas in the Akure North LGA are fully in support of these suggested measures in the overall interest of peace, and their position in that regard was evident during the public hearings of the Ajama Commission of Enquiry (and) the upgrading of some or any of the recognised chiefs or Obas in the Akure North LGA to first class or category ‘A’ Oba(s).” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com