Sex is vital in marriages, many counsellors have said, although as the years pass by, how often you and your spouse engage in it can ebb and flow. Actually, according to some experts, the frequency of sex in marriage is not the main issue, but how enjoyable the action is in the bedroom. In fact, some people are believed to have happy, fulfilling, and healthy romantic relationships without having regular sex with their spouses. But for some other couples, a happy, fulfilling, and healthy marriage means having sex on a regular basis – anywhere and at any time of the day. Each to their own! No matter which side of the divide you are, many counsellors, as well as scientists, believe that sex has a lot of benefits for marriages. For example, it could be an opportunity to bond with your partner or to show your partner love and affection. Also, you might feel more secure in your relationship if you’re having sex often. You could also have sex with your spouse to get pregnant and have kids. Also, sex could just simply be for the pleasure and fun of having it. Speaking of the pleasure in having sex, this is perhaps where many partners need to improve on their game because, according to experts, if sex feels boring to your spouse, they will probably avoid having it with you. And when they do, naturally, you will end up feeling rejected and confused. So if you notice any signs that your spouse is avoiding sex with you, don’t conclude yet that they’re having an affair with someone else. They may just not want to get into what leaves them hanging in the end. According to experts, the following are some ways you might be making sex boring for your spouse, plus tips on how to overcome the boredom and ultimately rejuvenate your sex life. Focusing only on intercourse A Lagos-based marriage counsellor, Mrs Bolanle Alaofin, said sex could be boring when a partner focuses only on “the end,” and not “the process.” She said, “What makes sex exciting is the passion, which is fuelled by intimacy. However, there are other things that are more emotionally important and intimate than intercourse. For example, touching each other and exploring each other’s body. “When one spouse is concentrating on pleasing the other, rather than both getting pleasure together, sex will feel boring. So, couples should not focus only on intercourse during sex.” A sex therapist and clinical psychologist based in the United States, Dr Janet Brito, also stressed this point. “Sex is more than penile-vaginal intercourse. For variety’s sake, try outercourse, which may include anything from deep kissing, sensual touch, and erotic massages, to using vibrators or other sex toys. Exploring a range of body pleasure is key to achieving orgasm,” Brito wrote on healthline.com. She added, “Use your five senses (yes, all five) to focus on your own body sensations. Abandon the performance-based mindset and adopt a pleasure-based approach instead. “This helps reduce that kind of sexual pressure most people complain about when it comes to ‘sex-pectations.’ Practising this can help you learn to eliminate fears that arise from believing you must know everything about sexual intimacy.” Comparing your spouse to an ex You should never compare your spouse to an ex, advised Brito. She noted that comparison could create unnecessary insecurities and resentment.“Instead, indulge with each other and keep things exciting. Make new memories! Schedule date nights to ensure you’re making time to create new sexual escapades,” she said. Brito also advised couples to understand each other’s love language. She said, “When the going gets tough in the bedroom, rely on your strengths. It’s quite easy to shift blame and get mad when your needs aren’t met. But, instead of calling it quits, take some time to understand each other’s point of view. Find some common ground. “Bickering usually happens because one person is feeling unappreciated. So learning and expressing your love in your partner’s language (whether it’s via gifts, physical affection, or taking out the trash), you’ll create a foundation for sexual intimacy.” Not resting well A recipe for failure in the bedroom is having sex when stressed. Hence, to feel more comfortable in your body and more energised to explore something new in the bedroom, you must feel well-rested. “Skip checking your Facebook each night and reserve the first and last hour of your day to refuel, reconnect, and experiment sexual pleasure with your spouse,” Alaofin said. Also, Brito encouraged couples to prioritise their time. She said, “Create more opportunities for sexual intimacy. Stop juggling too many balls in the air. Clear your schedule for rest, relaxation, and sexual activity. And since you need blood flow to your genitals for sexual arousal, keep up with regular exercise. It’s vital to increasing pleasure. Not only that, but exercise lifts your mood and gives you an endorphin boost – two necessary ingredients that promote sexual desire.” Similarly, American sex therapist and author, Dr Tammy Nelson said, “It’s important to relieve stress in a healthy, sustainable way in order to keep your hormones and your sex drive where you want them to be.” “Examples of great ways to reduce stress include exercise, massage, taking a luxurious bath, outdoor leisure, and yes, even sex,” she added. Not learning new techniques In an article, a sex therapist based in the US, Sheila Gregoire, said not learning new techniques or new things could cause boredom in the bedroom. She said, “If getting ready for bed consists of talking to him while he’s brushing his teeth and you’re sitting on the toilet peeing, after which you both throw on old raggedy T-shirts before you crawl into bed – well, perhaps it’s no wonder that sex is boring. You’ve lost all mystery and you’ve forgotten to try! Amazing things can get boring if there’s never any variety. If you always have sex the same way and do the same things, it will seem boring, even if it still feels pleasurable.” Speaking of new things, Brito said couples could try role-playing in the bedroom. She said, “According to a 2017 study, roughly 22 per cent of people have tried role-playing. With role-playing, you can create and act out exciting sex scenarios in a trusted environment. If both you and your partner are open to trying it, role-playing can help improve sexual communication and passion in an otherwise boring bedroom.” In a similar manner, American author and sexologist, Dr Dawn Michael, said in an article in MensHealth magazine that sex might be boring if it has become too predictable –same time, same place, same positions, etc. “So, change the scene, make the bedroom sexy and romantic by adding candles and soft music. Set the stage for romance. Use your imagination to role play with each other. “Most of all, have fun; it’s okay to giggle and tease each other. Allowing yourself to let go and enjoy the moment,” she advised. Not being spontaneous Gregoire said sex should not be scheduled. She said, “Every so often, passion should get the better of you! Yet, often, we may start kissing, and we may start feeling excited, but then we remember that dinner needs to be made or that we have to get ready to leave for somewhere in half an hour. “What would happen if, instead, we just let the feelings carry us away? We’d make great memories as we feel just a little bit out of control. Sex doesn’t need to always be at the same time as part of a schedule. It should be something that carries you away.” When only one partner initiates sex Even if sex is great, if the same person always starts, it’s going to feel, well, like a downer. Why? Because it’s always going to seem as if one person is doing the other a favour. And pity sex makes sex feel degrading. “Even if you’re more than enthusiastic once it starts, if you never initiate, your spouse may feel like you’re not really into it. And that’s going to start to turn them off, so that they may stop trying, too,” Gregoire said. Not being thoughtful If you’re a man, thoughtful gestures like picking up your wife’s favourite chocolate or ice cream on your way home from work can go a long way in creating fun in the bedroom. Of course, a woman could also make the gesture to her husband because relationships thrive when positive behaviours are taking place and each partner feels nourished and appreciated, according to psychologist and marriage therapist, Dr Jacqui Gabb, of the Open University in the United Kingdom. Apart from the above, Gabb also advised couples to never stop going on dates. She said, “Dating doesn’t have to stop after the wedding day. It’s a continuous process. Even if your spouse doesn’t want to get busy under the sheets, it doesn’t mean they don’t want you close. “So plan date nights, weekend trips or even an evening walk with your partner, and make cuddling and kissing a priority. Non-sexual closeness is important in relationships and can build other forms of intimacy.” Gabb also said couples should gist together – even when they are not thinking of having sex, noting that actions such as this could lead to exciting times in the bedroom. She said, “If you’re looking at a dip in sex drive as an issue that will always remain, it raises the pressure to do something about it immediately. However, happy couples find ways to ease the pressure off through laughter. “If you gist and laugh about something together, there’s this sense of being in it together. Not only are you easing the tension on the issue at hand, but laughter also boosts intimacy outside of the bedroom, too. In fact, some studies find people are more likely to open up when they’re laughing.” “For a man, making your wife laugh could turn her on and vice versa,” Gabb added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com