The West African Student’s Union has commended Aliko Dangote for his massive employment generation drive and implored other wealthy West African leaders to invest in industries in order to reduce unemployment in the region. The President of WASU, Romans Pillah, spoke a press briefing in Abuja on Thursday, according to a statement made available to our correspondent by the Dangote Group. Pillah described Dangote as godsend to the African continent and lauded him for employing thousands of youths in his companies. Last year, Dangote Cement announced that it sustained 54,000 jobs across four African countries including Nigeria. Dangote Group’s Integrated Sugar Complex is expected to commence production by 2023 and is projected to create more than 150,000 jobs, the statement said. Pillah was quoted to have said, “As students, we are mostly scared of our future because of the high unemployment rate in our region, but with a man like Aliko Dangote, we are optimistic and only pray for more Africans like him so as to totally eliminate the high scourge of unemployment in our continent as a whole.” The body called on Dangote to prevail on cement distributors across Nigeria to sell a little above the ex-factory price of N2,450, adding that distributors and other middlemen behind the hike in cement price should be sanctioned. Earlier in Lagos, the WASU president along with his executive members presented an award to Dangote Group as the ‘Most Outstanding Company in Africa’, the statement added. Dangote’s Group Executive Director, Strategy, Capital Projects & Portfolio Development, Devakumar Edwin, who was also presented an award as an ‘Icon of Outstanding Visionary Leadership in Africa’, assured them of the group’s determination to create millions of jobs across the continent. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com