The General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God Worldwide, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, on Tuesday asked members of the church and well wishers not to cry for his late son, Dare. He said the 42-year-old had gone to heaven, adding that people should devote time to praying for themselves so that could also get to heaven. Adeboye spoke in a video message played at the funeral service of his son, who died last Tuesday in Eket, Akwa Ibom State, where he was a youth pastor. Family members and friends of Dare paid their last respect to him at the funeral service which held at the Youth Centre of the Redemption Camp, Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Ogun State. The deceased, who was a Major-General in the RCCG Chaplaincy Corps, had his coffin draped in a white cloth, with his boots atop the coffin. Adeboye, in the video message said, “I want you to know that God who knows the end from the beginning, knew long before the foundations of the world, that what happened was going to happen. And because His word is forever settled, He said all things work together for good to them that love God. We might not understand now, but what has happened is going to work out for good as individuals, families and as a denomination. “God is sovereign. He does as He pleases in the cause of heaven. In one of the sermons Dare himself preached, he said ‘God does not need a visa to do what He is going to do.’ He is the commander-in-chief of the hosts of heaven. You don’t command the commander-in-chief; he tells you what to do. “I have told you before; death is not a function of age. Old people die, young people die, children die. It is not how long you live, but how well. Even Jesus Christ himself died at 33 plus. John the Baptist never lived to be 34, yet the Lord Jesus said of all men born of women, John the Baptist was the greatest. “We have lost a champion. But then, let us consider him a seed that we have sown, and let’s get ready for a very special harvest. I want us to join our forces together and produce many champions like Damilare. Let’s produce thousands of Pastor D that will go round the whole world and shake the world for the Lord Jesus Christ. As a matter of fact, that is how we can truly honour his memory. “We are marching on. Cry if you wish to, but don’t cry for Pastor D, because he is risen in glory. “Keep on praying for me. Pray for us. Keep on praying for my wife; keep in praying for the widow. Keep on praying for the children, but more importantly, keep praying for yourself that you too will finish well so that on the resurrection morning, we shall be together again.” In her written tribute, the deceased’s wife, Temiloluwa, recalled his last moment on earth. “You told the children, ‘Go with mummy, she will take care of you better than I can,’ and called me and said, ‘Baby, please give them whatever they want.’ We kissed and said our byes. You said you wanted to rest and asked not to be disturbed, because you knew Jesus wanted you by His side. “Who am I to question God? You’ve always said when I don’t have answers I should ask the Holy Spirit for clarifications. I did! He assured me you’re with the Lord. I saw you lifted into glory,” she wrote. His first daughter, Oluwatishe, said, “He was always there for my sisters and I. He was always standing up for my mum, my sisters and I. He loved us and still loves us; he misses us and we miss him. He was generous and he is still generous. He was a father of many nations. He was a pastor, and he is still a pastor.” Dare’s sister, Bolu, wrote, “Your birth was a miracle and your life was full of miracles and wonders. You brought joy and happiness into our family. My comfort is in the fact that you lived an exemplary and fulfilled life in the Lord. Words cannot describe how much I love you and how much I miss you.” Dignitaries present included the General Overseer of the Living Faith Church, Bishop David Oyedepo; and his wife, Faith; the President of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria, Bishop Francis Wale Oke; and his wife, Tokunbo. The Pastor in charge of RCCG National Youth Affairs, Kola Oyeleyin, in his sermon, called on people to thank God for a life well lived and move on from the loss. The deceased was later buried in a private cemetery, where only members of the Adeboye family and some relatives were present. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com