The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Imo State Command, has intercepted and seized a 40,000-litre capacity tanker suspected to be conveying adulterated diesel to Kano State. The tanker was impounded around 10.30pm on Tuesday and four suspects were arrested. Speaking to journalists on Wednesday, the state Commandant of the corps, Mr Michael Ogar, said the tanker was intercepted in Okigwe for false declaration. PUNCH Metro gathered that documents covering the consignment indicated that it was being conveyed from Port Harcourt to Kano, but when the suspects were interrogated, they declared that they were coming from Aba and heading for Kano. “We intercepted the truck and the suspects in Okigwe en-route Enugu. The waybill they had indicated that the diesel they were conveying was bought from a private refinery in Aba and the mix-up in the information they gave was why we began to suspect the authenticity of the product, hence the arrest,” Ogar stated. The commandant said he resumed at the command three weeks ago amidst the crisis in the state. “I came in when the state was bedevilled by a lot of crises. I was here when three civil defence officers were killed. I can confirm the killing of two male officers and a woman officer in Orlu. The first officer was in the anti-vandalism squad, while the second officer was guiding the governor’s house. The woman was unfortunately killed by a stray bullet,” Ogar added. The commandant stated that the security of lives and property was everybody’s business and called on the public to assist the command with relevant security information. He assured the state of better security from men and officers of the corps, adding that there was a working synergy between the NSCDC and other sister security agencies for tactical information sharing. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com