While it is generally believed that Lagos is the entertainment capital of the country, a budding singer, Enoch Solomon, Nifty Boi, says that Kaduna State has a larger pool of musical talents in Nigeria. The Ever Rise Records signee, who recently released a seven-song Extended Play album titled, Different Vibe, told Saturday Beats, “Lagos may be the market but Kaduna is where the pool of talents is. The state is practically the headquarters of music in the north. Hip hop is the dominant genre of music in the north. People in the entertainment industry don’t usually focus on northern artistes. However, I hope to bridge that gap and I want people to know that there are lots of talented artistes like me in the north.” Defining his style of music, the music artiste said, “My style of music can best be described as a blend of afrobeat, dancehall and hip hop. While growing up, I used to listen to Eminem, 2pac, Nas, Lil Wayne and Drake. I also listened to Fela and other top Nigerian artistes like D’banj, Wande and Coal. My style of music is different because I combine afrobeat, dancehall and hip hop. I am also a producer and I often think outside the box. The first song on my EP is called Different Vibe for a reason. My music is offers a different vibe from what is out there. I was actually in Kenya when I recorded the song and I wanted to achieve a different result with it in terms of the delivery. I believe that is the edge I have over other artistes.” The singer also noted that he has a wonderful relationship with his record label. He said, “Everything has been going on well since I signed a deal with the label. They have been doing a lot for me and that’s why I have few challenges. I have three videos out already that are doing very well. They were shot in London (United Kingdom), Tanzania and Kenya respectively.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com