Following growing tension in the Edo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Committee, the Senator Bukola Saraki-led PDP National Reconciliation and Strategy Committee is to meet party stakeholders in the state. Our correspondent gathered in Abuja, on Thursday, that the mandate given to the Saraki committee by the party’s National Working Committee, was being relied upon to accomplish this task. A top-ranking party source familiar with the issue, told The PUNCH, in Abuja, “We are confident that our leaders in the state and in the zone are capable of dealing with the issue. “However, we are also aware that the Bukola Saraki -led reconciliation committee will soon visit the state and straighten whatever rough edges remain.” While shedding light on the genesis of the dispute, the party source said, “It is normal in politics for the governor to carry those who followed him from his former party along; no one can deny him that right. “Recall, Governor Godwin Obaseki joined the party from the APC and he led several of his loyalists and in fairness to him, there has to be a way to accommodate them. Now, party loyalists who have been with use through thick and thin, can’t also be wished away. “It is the process to accommodate all the tendencies within the party to give everyone a sense of belonging, that is generating the noise you are hearing. It is not something we cannot deal with, it is doable.” Meanwhile, Obaseki held a closed-door meeting with the aggrieved state party leaders at Government House, Benin, late on Wednesday. Feelers from the meeting indicated that the governor assured the party leaders that he had no plan to dissolve the SWC. He was also said to have expressed displeasure over the decision of the Tony Aziegbemi-led SWC, to write the PDP National Secretariat based on unsubstantiated allegations against him. Obaseki was said to have reiterated his gratitude to the PDP, its leaders and members for providing him with a platform to serve the people of Edo State. He was also said to have assured them that he was not taking their support or the party for granted. It was also learnt that the governor received several calls from his fellow PDP governors on the need for him to rally party supporters in order for peace to reign. A source privy to the meeting said, “The meeting was cordial; it was called by the governor where he appealed for calm. He told us that he has been receiving calls from all over the country over the development. “The meeting ended well and he wants us to bring our suggestions on the way forward which is expected to be forwarded to him on Friday.” When contacted, Aziegbemi neither denied nor confirmed the meeting. Recall that the Edo State PDP SWC wrote the national leadership of the party protesting alleged plot to dissolve leadership of the party from ward, local government area and state levels and also complained about the delay in the appointment of commissioners. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com