A former aviation minister, Chief Osita Chidoka, has urged Nigerian youths to re-engage the nation by using their population to elect a  leadership that can unlock their productive energies and potential. He said the time had come for Nigerian youths to push forward the unifying “Naija spirit” as a vehicle to achieve the desired paradigm shift that could guarantee a change from ineffectual leadership to a purpose-driven governance structure in the country. Chidoka, in a statement by his media aide, Ikechukwu Okafor, spoke at the 2021 Law Symposium of the American University of Nigeria, Yola, Adamawa State. He said Nigeria would not realise its potential unless the youth reengage to infuse the spirit of “Naija” in the Nigerian approach to governance. “The time is now to unlock Naija and infuse the spirit of Naija in Nigeria. The youth must re-engage with the country, Nigeria, to enable a change from progressive decline. “They must use their population to elect a new leadership inspired by Naija to dismantle the constricting hold of the Nigerian state over its citizens,” he added. Chidoka, who spoke on the theme, ‘Promoting Social Justice, National Unity and Development’, told the students that the current poor leadership across the tiers of government had led to the emergence of two countries: Naija and Nigeria. He said, “This is Nigeria the country, where efforts at national unity through the creation of institutions like the National Youth Service Corps, Federal Government colleges, quota systems, educationally disadvantaged states and zoning, have all failed to produce the desired national unity. “On the other hand, we have Naija, a corruption of the name Nigeria that has developed a life of its own. Naija is that space where we unleash youth creativity, and government meddlesomeness is absent. “The difference between Nigeria and Naija is widening every day. Nigerian youths are disconnected emotionally from the country. Nigerian firms like Paystack, Flutterwave, Kobo 360, are growing in the Naija space, raising money from global investors and innovating continuously. Where Nigeria stifles, Naija liberates. Where Nigeria obstructs, Naija supports. Nigeria is moribund, Naija is creative.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com