THE Independent National Electoral Commission is to convene a meeting of its Inter-Agency Consultative Committee on Election Security next week. This followed an increase in the number of attacks on INEC facilities in some parts of the country. The latest being an attack by suspected arsonists on its office in Ohafia Local Government Area of Abia State on Sunday. In a statement titled ‘INEC Local Government Area Office in Abia State Set Ablaze’, which was signed by INEC’s National Commissioner/Chairman, Information and Voter Education Committee, Festus Okoye, in Abuja, on Monday, the commission described the Abia attack as disturbing. Okoye explained that the commission met and deliberated on a wide range of issues and resolved to hold the security meeting. The statement read in part, “The incident occurred late on Sunday night, 9th May, 2021. There were no casualties on the part of our staff on guard duty but the building was virtually destroyed. Apart from furniture items, all electoral materials and office equipment were destroyed. “The matter has been reported to the police for investigation. “It will be recalled that only last week, the commission reported an attack on its office in Essien Udim Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State and expressed anxiety about the impact of such attacks on electoral activities, including the ongoing expansion of voter access to Polling Units, resumption of the Continuous Voter Registration, pending bye-elections, end-of-tenure elections and ultimately the 2023 general elections. “The latest incident in Abia State is one too many. This is not the first attack on the commission’s facilities in the state in recent times. “Five months ago, on 13th December, 2020, the INEC LGA office in Aba-South was completely burnt down, while that of Arochukwu LGA was vandalised and ransacked in October 2020. “These facilities are national assets, which must be protected. Accordingly, the commission is convening an emergency meeting of the Inter-Agency Consultative Committee on Election Security next week to discuss this disturbing trend.” INEC, however, reassured Nigerians that all activities in relation to the ongoing expansion of voter access to polling units and preparations for the resumption of CVR as well as all scheduled elections would proceed as planned. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com