StarTimes Nigeria has said it will assist Lagos with technical support as well as improved content offerings on its lowest bouquet as the state transitions from analogue to digital TV. The pay-TV brand in a statement on Friday said the digital switchover drive of the Federal Government was in line with its vision to enable every family afford, access and enjoy the beauty of digital TV. Chief Executive Officer, StarTimes Nigeria, Alex Jian, said the pay-TV brand would continue to provide technical support to the actualisation of digital migration nationwide. He said, “We are proud to partner with Integrated Television Services Ltd, one of the signal carriers of DSO. ITS Ltd is currently riding on the existing digital transmission infrastructure of NTA-Star TV (StarTimes Nigeria). “With StarTimes Nigeria’s DVB-T2 technology widely spread across the federation, ITS Ltd has a strong footing to fully digitalise the nation.” Also speaking, the Director-General of the National Broadcasting Commission, Prof. Armstrong Idachaba, said the digital switchover activated in Lagos meant that with just a set-top box, residents of Lagos could now enjoy over 30 digital television services. He said, “It must be stated that the digitisation of broadcasting brings a whole gamut of opportunities for Nigerians. It is perhaps, without doubt, the fastest and safest way to leapfrog those at the lower rung up the digital divide. “With this roll-out in Lagos, a projected five million Lagos residents are instantly going to access digital television services not only for broadcasting but with converged opportunities to telecom and other ancillary services.” Plateau, Kaduna, Kwara, Enugu, and Osun states as well as the Federal Capital Territory have already migrated to digital TV. Next in line are Kano in June and Rivers in July. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com