THE Cross River State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party has alleged that its important documents and other property were carted away following the acquisition of its secretariat by the All Progressives Congress. The allegation was contained in a statement titled, ‘Crucial Documents and other Properties Belonging to PDP have gone Missing’ signed by the PDP Caretaker Committee Chairman, Effiok Cobham, in Calabar on Tuesday. The statement read in part, “Following the defection of the Governor of Cross River State, His Excellency Prof. Ben Ayade to the All Progressives Congress, eyewitnesses have earlier today, 25th of May, 2021 informed the PDP Caretaker committee that vital documents belonging to the Peoples Democratic Party in the now seized and converted building into an All Progressive Congress Secretariat have been carted away. “The source confirmed that a white Ford pickup truck without registration number carted the registers and other documents belonging to the PDP out of the secretariat to an unknown destination under the guidance of the police personnel on ground who have taken over the security of the secretariat since Saturday the 22nd of May. “In other states across the country where Governors defect to parties of choice, such trifling conduct has never been seen before, where a governor abuses the powers at his disposal. In a democracy, such impunity is obsolete. Little wonder why the progress of the state is stagnated. This is because one man assumes the god position.” It added that, “The PDP family has moved on, he should do so too by concentrating on his new party and stop fomenting trouble. “The PDP hereby advises the governor and his cohorts to return the said documents and paraphernalia of the PDP as well as make haste to vacate its secretariat as any damage to both property and documents would be accounted for. “We want to use this medium to implore our party faithful and supporters to be peaceful and law abiding and also to thank the general public for their resolute support to our great party the PDP. “Now more than ever, we remain resilient and resolved to make Cross River state great again.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com