Some aggrieved members of the All Progressives Congress have protested against the party’s decision to adopt consensus candidates in some local government areas. The party leadership also added that where necessary, the party would make use of either the direct or indirect primaries for local government areas which could not pick consensus candidates. The crisis is brewing ahead of the forthcoming July, 24 local government elections in the state. The protesters, who stormed the Secretariat of the Nigeria Union of Journalists,  Ogun State Council, accused some leaders of the APC of imposing chairmanship candidate on them. Our correspondent gathered that in the Abeokuta South LGA, Omolaja Majekodunmi , Olumide Tosin, Lanre Sotayo, Farouk Akintunde and Mustapha Kodaolu, were among the aspirants. But the protesters alleged that the Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Afolabi Afuape and a former Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Titi Oseni-Gomez, wanted to impose Majekodunmi on them. The protesters, who displayed placards to show their grievances, insisted that Afuape and Oseni-Gomez should not impose candidate on them. One of the leaders who led the protest, Balogun  Ololade, called on Governor Dapo Abiodun to intervene in the matter “to safe democracy from jeopardy”. But Afuape denied the allegation. Afuape in a statement said, “No iota of truth in this allegation. Whoever alleges must prove. It is a political gimmick of a bad looser.” Meanwhile, the Publicity Secretary of the party’s Caretaker Committee, Tunde Oladunjoye saod the arrangement was to ensure that none of the contestants in the LG elections spend money unnecessarily, Oladunjoye noted that, the party had been able to come up with solutions to multiple candidates in some local governments. He said the process of reaching consensus on the candidates had already started, saying lists of agreed candidates would be made available during the week. He said, “The leaders have assured the governor that the process of reaching consensus is ongoing, and by Wednesday, they will come back with the list of agreed candidates in the local government. We expect that some local governments will come back with one candidate, while those who have more than two or three will go for direct primaries.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com