The Chief Medical Director, University of Benin Teaching Hospital, Prof. Darlington Obaseki, has advised Nigerians to always observe regular handwashing and other stipulated safety measures to avoid the current third wave of COVID-19 raging in India and some other countries. Obaseki, at an event organised by the hospital to mark 2021 World Hand Hygiene Day, urged Nigerians not to be deceived by the current low cases of COVID-19 in the country. He said, “We pray that what is happening in India doesn’t get here but that can only happen if we keep doing the right things by wearing our face masks and washing our hands regularly,” he said. “We all know that COVID-19 is transmitted mostly through droplets and contact with infected persons or infected surfaces via your hand to your face, mouth, nose and the eyes. Washing your hands regularly with soap and water cannot, therefore, be over emphasised in controlling  the spread of infectious pathogens, including the SARS COV 2 virus responsible for the spread of COVID-19. “Our responsibility as policy makers, health administrators, managers, health care workers and even as individuals in this regards cannot be over stated. We all have the responsibility to ensure that we comply, especially in the health care setting where we are encouraged to reduce general transmission of infection  between patients, from patients to health care workers and from health workers to their colleagues.” He added that the observance of preventive measures such as hand washing, wearing of face mask and maintaining social distancing remained key measures to keep the dreaded disease at bay. The event was organised by UBTH in partnership with the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control and the World Health Organisation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com