Fans of Sunshine Stars have lamented the club’s poor form in the 2020/21 season of the Nigeria Professional Football League. The Akure-based side have not won any of their last 17 games – their last victory coming against Enugu Rangers January 31. Speaking with our correspondent on Monday, Chairman of the club’s supporters club, Felix Oluwa, said the poor form can be attributed to the non-payment of salaries of players and officials. “As supporters of Sunshine Stars, we are not happy because what is going on regarding the club is something that we are sad about. We thought we would win our last home match to redeem the image of the club, unfortunately, the game ended goalless, so we are not happy,” Oluwa told The PUNCH. “They (Ondo State Government) owe the players about eight months salaries and officials 14 months salaries. If this can be reduced to five or six months, it will boost the morale of the team.” Another fan Biodun Oladapo said, “Having supported Sunshine Stars since my childhood, I feel so sad about their present form. In fact, the way they are losing games that we expect them to win isn’t encouraging. I can’t remember the last time they won. If they continue like this, I see them going down to the NNL next season. Another fan, Ayodeji Ologbonjaye, is hopeful the Akure-based club can survive the drop if they win at least five games. “The team’s confidence level is very low, they hardly win at home and are not picking points away. And if you can’t win at home in the Nigerian league, you can’t succeed. I think the clubs isn’t getting enough support from the government. As a fan, I have not been happy with this. For us to avoid relegation, the club has to win four to five games in their remaining fixtures,” Ologbonjaye told The PUNCH. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com