RIVERS State Governor, Nyesom Wike, has extended the night curfew across the 23 local government area of the state from 7pm to 6am with effect from Tuesday, in order to stem attacks on policemen and security formations in the state. The governor said the decision was taken in the wake of multiple ambushes on police checkpoints along the East-West road which resulted in the murder of seven police officers last week. Wike said in a state broadcast on Monday that the State Security Council had reviewed the way and manner the recent attacks were executed and discovered that the perpetrators, who disguised themselves as security officers, moved in unhindered from Oyigbo to launch the attacks. The governor’s broadcast was relayed to newsmen in Port Harcourt by his Special Assistant on Media, Kelvin Ebiri, on Monday. “We have reviewed, and for the moment, declined the pressure on the state government to activate our youth to defend the state from these terrorists because we don’t want to complicate our very delicate security situation by creating opportunities for some other monsters to emerge,” Wike said in the statement. The governor, who consoled the families of the dead officers and the state Police Command for the irreparable loss, declared that the government and security agencies were determined to deploy everything at their disposal to advance the safety and security of lives and property in the state. Earlier, Wike said the state will give N20m to families of each of the 11 policemen killed by gunmen during recent attacks of police formations in the state. The governor, who announced this during a condolence visit to the Commissioner of Police, Friday Eboka, and officers of the state police command on Monday, urged them to henceforth be on offensive against those who perpetrated these heinous acts. Wike, while addressing officers and men at the Police Officers Mess in Port Harcourt, said his visit was to commiserate with them over the death of some of their colleagues who lost their lives in line of duty while protecting the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com