Frontline music company, Mavin Records, is nine years old. The record label which was founded by producer and philanthropist, Don Jazzy, is home to a number of talents including Korede Bello, Johnny Drille, Arya Starr, Crayon and Rema Reeling out some of the company’s achievements, the label’s Chief Operating Officer, Tega Oghenejobo, stated that it’s artistes songs had recorded over two billion streams later, $4m in sales and a multimillion dollar investment by Kupanda Holdings. Oghenejobo also stated that regardless of those achievements, the team remained as inspired as ever. He said, “2021 is the year we would consolidate on our legacy while charting a new route for the future of afrobeat.” To celebrate its ninth anniversary, the record label announced the ‘Mavin Future Five Initiative’, which seeks to mentor five music business enthusiasts and groom them to occupy salient positions in the industry. Speaking further on the programme, Oghenejobo said, “No matter how genius your potential is, everyone has to do their 10,000 hours. You need practice. There are young people everywhere in need of someone to believe in them. At Mavin, we are looking to build the future of music in Africa by building those who would be in charge of it.” On his part, Don Jazzy noted that the company was resolute in its determination to place value on talents. He said, “I have been here for a while and I have seen the industry in all its phases. One thing remains consistent though— the value placed on talent. And, our roaster boasts an abundance of this. We have young artistes coming in and they are bringing with them fresher voices and newer dynamics. The focus of our ninth anniversary is to celebrate the limitless potential of the future of Afrobeat.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com