Some of the kidnapped victims who were rescued by a joint team of the Edo State Police Command and vigilante group have said they were tortured and starved. One of the victims, Adeoye Rasaq said, “We were on our way from Ibadan to the East and they abducted us on Thursday. We were 18 in the vehicle but they released some that were able to pay ransom. We were beaten mercilessly from that Thursday till Saturday when we were rescued. They did give us neither food nor water and we were beaten by the rain. “They called our people to bring money but as they didn’t get the money on Friday, they beat us endlessly from Friday night till Saturday morning but I thank Edo State security operatives for rescuing us.” Another victim, Samson Effiong who was kidnapped with two of his siblings said, “We were travelling from Lagos to Akwa-Ibom State when they kidnapped us. My sister fainted that night and we wanted to help her but they did not allow us to do so. They abandoned her there but she regained consciousness later.  When they saw the police, they ran away and abandoned us. We did not eat or drink anything until we were rescued. “They tied our hands, our legs, blindfolded us and were beating us with machetes and the guns they were carrying.  They are more than 15 and they have different camps in the forest. That night that they took us, they brought some other people and then separated us to different camps.” Among the victims are Yusuf Oladimeji, Oluwaseun Adisa, Okoh Sunday, Oladele Waliyat, Ayenigoyeda Amos and Omobayo Ayobanji, Muniru Akeem, Kudi Sebastien, Effiong Mary,  Awal Okon and Asimiyu Rilwan. The Commissioner of Police, Philip Ogbadu, said the joint rescue operation was successful because they deployed drones to comb the area before deploying men, saying the strategy would continue. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com