It’s 2021 and I know you are here because you want to know the best app to sell or redeem your gift cards in Nigeria. Well that app is Giftcardstonaira. You can quickly download it from the Google play store here or the Apple play store here. Selling gift cards for cash in Nigeria is as easy as ABC if you know the right platform to use. Today, different apps claim that they can help you trade your gift cards for naira but most of them end up redeeming the card for you at a very low rate, which will make you lose a lot of money. Giftcardstonaira is the most trusted and secure gift card trading app with the highest rate in Nigeria. You don’t have to sell your gift cards any other place because Giftcardstonaira offers the highest gift card rate in Nigeria and it’s more user friendly than any other app you’ve used before: The app is very easy to use. Starting from the login page to the gift card trading page and others are easy to navigate. When you open the giftcardstonaira app, register first if you haven’t but if you have, click on login to start trading immediately. Quickly click on the wallet button and add your bank details. Click on add new account to add your bank details. To start selling your gift card, click on dashboard at the bottom of the screen. On the dashboard, you will see a button named “Sell Giftcard” and select the type of Gift card you would like to sell from the various options made available for you on the app. Select gift card, enter the amount and upload the gift card image. When you are through, click on submit trade and wait for 2 – 5 minutes for the card to be confirmed. After about 2 minutes, click on wallet and withdraw your money into your bank account. Below is a list of gift cards and many more you can sell on the Giftcardtonaira app and get paid immediately in Naira To check the current rate of any gift card, download Giftcardstonaira app from Google play store or from the apple app store, Register and login and navigate to the “Menu” and click on “Rates“. Select the category of Gift card and enter the gift card amount. You can easily download Giftcardstonaira either from Google play store or from the Apple App store Download Giftcardstonaira from Google Play Store Download Giftcardstonaira from Apple App Store For support, call/Whatsapp +234 70 5837 2518