A former chairman of the Ekiti State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party, Chief Bola Olu-Ojo, has warned ex-Governor Ayodele Fayose, against raining curses on opponents of his preferred governorship candidate. The former PDP chairman spoke after he was unveiled by one of the party’s governorship aspirants, Wale Aribisala, as Director General of the Wale Aribisala Campaign Organisation, in Ado Ekiti on Sunday. READ ALSO: Hoodlums kill ex-sergeant, wife, daughter-in-law in Kaduna He spoke against the backdrop of a viral video in which Fayose was seen raining curses on opponents of his preferred governorship candidate, Bisi Kolawole. Fayose was heard saying, “Those contesting the PDP ticket with you should fall sick. Those who are going to herbalists to hypnotise you shall fall sick. And may God unseat those in higher authorities they depend on.” Olu-Ojo, in response said, “Let me appeal to our leaders, aspirants, campaign sponsors and members of the party to eschew bitterness, threats, intimidation and definitely curses in the course of our campaigns.” Also speaking during the event, Aribisala, who is PDP’s National Treasurer and a former member of House of Representatives, said, the All Progressives Congress-led Federal Government, had failed in its primary responsibility of protecting the lives and property of citizens. He promised to give priority to the issue of security of the people of the state when given the opportunity to provide leadership. Aribisala said, “Today, we cannot say we want to travel without feeling apprehension of being kidnapped. That is how bad our security set up is. The president and his team have completely lost it. “They lied to Nigerians and we can see the damage they have done to our country across all sectors. There is poverty in the land and there is no hope because the federal government is not doing anything tangible to savage the country. These and many more are the reasons Ekiti people owe it a duty to vote for PDP in next year’s election.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com