Former Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Solomon Dalung, says the decision of his successor, Sunday Dare, to dissolve the boards of sports federations shows the country is not prepared for the Tokyo 2020 Olympics, which starts July 23. Speaking in an interview with our correspondent, Dalung said the sports ministry lacked the powers to dissolve boards of sports federations in the country. “That this happened before the Olympics is evident that we are not prepared for the Olympics, because by now, countries going to the Olympics are busy with final preparations,” Dalung told The PUNCH. “If at this point we are talking of dissolving the federations, which has now introduced confusion. The Technical Directors of the federations have also been dissolved and these are people who are in charge of the training of athletes. When will the new leadership organise itself and be prepared for the Olympics? Nigeria is not prepared for the Olympics and is not honest enough to tell the world that it is not prepared.” The former sports minister said the excuse that federations were yet to have constitutions of their own were not right as they were ready before he left office. “I find the whole development ridiculous because before I left office, every federation had held their congresses, produced their constitutions and deposited them with the ministry. This is well captured in the handing over note,” Dalung added. “So, if the ministry is coming back today to dissolve the federations, alluding to the fact that they were asking them to deposit copies of their constitutions, then something fundamentally is wrong somewhere. “The sports ministry under the policy of democratisation of the federations does not have the powers to dissolve the federations. Government is a continuum, the policy was made by a minister and implemented, and so, another minister cannot reverse it because it is his policy. “If that has happened, then the tendency is that there is confusion going on in the ministry, on how the federations should be managed. This would instigate and escalate further litigations by the federations. “The role of the ministry is supervisory, so all that the ministry needs to do is to write national federations and request them to hold their elections based on their constitutions and the ministry send officials to supervise the elections to ensure they are held in accordance with the constitution.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com