This is arguably a particularly difficult time for Nigeria. The signs are ominous that things have not been okay with the country. It will not be out of place to note that the situation is gradually becoming akin to what the late novelist, Chinua Achebe captured in his book, “Things Fall Apart,” when he wrote that, “Things fall apart; the centre cannot hold, ‘’echoing the opening stanza of William Butler Yeats’s poem “The Second Coming.” Eavesdropper observes that right, left and centre, there appears to be anarchy with the leadership appearing irritatingly helpless. Insecurity has taken over the country and those who should arrest the situation are obviously not up to the task. From the southern to the northern part of the country, the nation is reeling in bloody attacks from kidnappers, bandits and other terror groups. Not long ago, suspected gunmen razed the Ehime Mbano Local Government Area Divisional Police Headquarters in Imo State. Earlier, gunmen attacked the Owerri Correctional Prison in the state capital and freed 1,884 inmates. Those who attacked the police headquarters situated in Owerri also burnt almost all the vehicles parked on the premises. The minister of interior said those who escaped would be granted amnesty if they returned voluntarily. Some of the fleeing inmates have returned but that didn’t rule out the brazen audacity with which the gunmen carried out the dastardly act. Last month, gunmen waylaid a vehicle belonging to the Nigeria Correctional Services in Anambra State, killed a warder and one unidentified person. Eavesdropper gathered that officers of the services were returning to the Aguata  custodial centre from court when the gunmen attacked them and whisked away an inmate being taken back to the centre. This came a day after four naval officers and three policemen were killed in different locations in the state and their vehicles set ablaze. The hoodlums also attacked a police station at Ekwulobia in the Aguata Local Government Area of the state. Only recently, gunmen murdered seven suya sellers in separate shootings in Orlu and Umuaka in the Njaba Local Government Area of the state. It was not a palatable situation for a family of five from Ajowa Akoko in the Akoko North-West Local Government Area of Ondo State who were kidnapped by gunmen at the Ayere community in Kogi State. The victims didn’t do anything unusual. They did what any Nigerian would have done during the festive season. They came to celebrate Easter with their loved ones and were returning to Abuja from Ajowa Akoko, when the hoodlums intercepted them on a bad portion of the road. This is a road that would also have been repaired but trust Nigeria where anything goes. The road is in state of disrepair and its state affords the kidnappers the opportunity to waylay the family and abduct them. As one state is battling one attack, another is going through another. Abduction of school children continue with the killing of abducted students of Greenfield University, Kaduna State, by bandits. They didn’t carry out the act without leaving a trail. They injured two private guards attached to the site and took away the expatriates and one of them has been reported dead. The attacks on police have yet to stop and this is evident in the killing of two riot policemen at a checkpoint in Dogon-Gawa, Takum Local Government Area of Taraba State.  The same act was repeated when gunmen killed soldier in Benue State. Eavesdropper notes that if police officers are so cheaply killed, what becomes the fate of Nigerians whom they are paid to secure? Nigeria needs to move fast. Those appointed to provide security for the citizens should roll up their sleeves and get to work. As Eavesdropper  once stated, Nigerians themselves are scared of Nigeria because everywhere is now insecure. Secured houses are not safe not to talk of those built around bushes. In Nigeria, it’s now everyone for himself. The murderers are on tour and killing at will. This is not the Nigerian dream that the country’s forebears envisaged. There are illegal weapons in the country and it’s not clear if those who claimed to be in charge are doing anything to mop them up. The recent disclosure by a former Head of State, Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar (retd), that about six million illegal weapons were in circulation in Nigeria was enough to push security forces to be prepared for the challenges ahead. The development indicates that many people have dangerous weapons to be a law unto themselves and unleash terror on the citizens as they desire. This is not the time for some undemocratic, greedy individuals who are concerned only about their selfish ends to keep deceiving themselves that Nigeria is working. Truth be told, the country is crawling despite being of age because it has achieved nothing to cheer about.    ,,