During the week, a video made the rounds showing actress, Biola Fowosire, weeping and lamenting about how robbers carted away the goods in her store for the fourth time since she ventured into business. Narrating her ordeal to Sunday Scoop, the actress said, “With the incessant attacks, what do I have to say? The Bible says that in all things, we should be thankful. My troubles started four years ago. At first, my car was snatched, but surprisingly, the person who snatched the car called me, claiming he did not know I was the owner of the car. He said he thought it was another person’s own.  I got him arrested but because he knows some people, he was released. As a matter of fact, the person threatened that if I continued to spread his tales, he would kill me. So, I kept quiet afterwards. “A year later, I started my business with a loan of over N1m. I got a shop at a complex, but unfortunately, my shop was burgled twice. I was selling cosmetics, clothes and hair extensions. I relocated but I was not making enough sales. Sadly, my shop was burgled again and I lost N2.8million worth of goods. The loss hit me very badly and I diverted into fish business. My grandmother sells fish, so I’m skilled in that business. Acting is not enough to meet my needs so I had to combine other things. I also saved up and started selling drinks. Thankfully, business started to boom. A few days ago, robbers came again and stole all my goods. They took two freezers, a generator and expensive wines. My shop is in Ibadan, Oyo State. My fans have given me a freezer and some well-meaning people also sent money to me. I have been sorting out the issues little by little.” The actress further stated that she considered the robbery attacks to be a trial. She said, “I cannot pinpoint where the problem originated from. I am a generous and peaceful person and I’m not at loggerheads with anyone. As a widow, I have helped and empowered other widows too. I have accepted my fate. I guess this is one of the trials that I would pass through in life. If anyone is responsible for my woes, I have handed the person to God. I know God will eventually expose every evil doer.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com