The Fortune Global Shipping and Logistics, a shipping and logistics service provider, has announced the appointment of a new managing director, Kingsley Uwagbale. The President/CEO, FGSL, Eric Opah, said in a statement issued by the organisation that the management was convinced Uwagbale would chart the roadmap required for the firm’s growth. Opah said, “Kingsley is a seasoned professional with vast experience and a track record of delivering world-class services. “He is known for combining effective commercial credentials, data-driven decision making and inspirational leadership to steer businesses and people in the desired direction. “On this note, the management remains resolute in its convictions that under his stewardship, Fortune Global will positively make inroads into other major markets across the continent.” In his remarks, Uwagbale expressed his commitment to driving business stability. He stated, “Leveraging the opportunities that the current business climate has presented us to improve our operational efficiency is paramount to the long-term objectives of the company. “The market may still be reeling from the devastating effects of the pandemic; however, with the deployment of technology and a growth-oriented approach, we shall fulfil the board’s mandate and further enhance customer satisfaction. “Innovation and the ability to seamlessly pivot into other businesses will be paramount in our activities moving forward and with the calibre of forward-thinking colleagues working tirelessly with me, we can hit the shared objectives in good time.” The statement said Uwagbale would bring to bear a wealth of professional experience crisscrossing multiple sectors including aviation, maritime, logistics, emergency management and business consultancy in a successful career that spans over 30 years. It added that he had an MBA in marketing from the University Port Harcourt and a Bachelor of Science degree in industrial chemistry from the University of Benin. He had also attended executive education programmes at the prestigious Harvard Business School and Cambridge University, England. He is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Chemists of Nigeria and a member of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport, according to the statement. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com