The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, has ordered the arrest of 13 suspects allegedly involved in the series of unrest leading to the death of one Papa Mohammed, and the vandalism and burning of property belonging to leaders of the Gengere community in the Mile 12 and Ketu areas of the state. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi, said in a statement on Tuesday that Odumosu gave the order after an interview session with the leaders at the command headquarters. He stated, “The state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, has ordered the arrest of 13 leaders of warring groups in the Gengere community, Mile 12 and Ketu areas of the state, for their alleged involvement in the crisis that was orchestrated by some hoodlums in the community on April 30, 2021, around 3.30pm. “Based on preliminary investigation, the Commander, Security Committee in the Gengere community, Alhaji Alidu Mohammed, was alleged to have disrespected and blasphemed Prophet Mohammed and the hoodlums went on rampage, attacked him, set ablaze his two cars, vandalised one of his houses and set ablaze a small building belonging to one Alhaji Mamuda. “In response to the crisis, the CP immediately deployed additional policemen in the area, where 45 suspects were arrested. As a result of the crisis, one Papa Mohammed, who was stabbed on April 30, 2021, gave up the ghost on May 1, 2021while on admission. “In the bid of the command to restore normalcy and maintain law and order in the area, the CP on Tuesday, May 4, 2021, ordered the immediate arrest of the leaders of the warring groups, who have been fuelling the crisis in the area as the warring parties still plan for continuous attacks on one another. “The police boss also directed the Deputy Commissioner of Police, SCIID, Panti, DCP Adegoke Fayoade, to immediately take over the case and carry out discreet investigation into the general crisis in the area, particularly the murder and arson cases recorded during the crisis.” Adejobi quoted Odumosu as saying that the command would not tolerate any act of religious intolerance and lawlessness in any part of the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com