The President of the Institute of Chartered Accountant of Nigeria, Mrs. Dame Onome Adewuyi, has announced that the body is at an advanced stage of getting licenced from the National Universities Commission to establish a university. She disclosed this in her closing speech at the 67th induction of new members in Lagos this Tuesday. She said, “Kindly permit me to inform you that, as part of the institute’s contributions to capacity building in the country, we have reached an advanced stage in securing the NUC’s licence for the establishment of the ICAN university. “The university would start with postgraduate courses in the social and management sciences such as accounting, economics, business administration and finance.” Adewuyi also charged the new inductees to aspire for both professional and academic relevance in the market, encouraging them to take advantage of the opportunity offered by the institute to add to their academic qualifications by enrolling for post graduate studies at the proposed university. Also speaking at the event, the keynote speaker and Former President of ICAN, Mallam Isma’ila Zakari, challenged the inductees to get themselves abreast with the ‘new-normal’ which COVID-19 has brought and embrace the various opportunities in technological and digital accountancy. Zakari said, “Digital transformation is not new, but the COVID-19 pandemic has accelerated the timeline and heightened the urgency of embracing digitisation to support sustainable organisations and economies.” “The last one year showed us that disruption could happen at any time, but as a forward-thinking and innovative profession, it also showed us that we must be prepared to handle disruption. While it’s true that 2020 disrupted how accountants worked, it didn’t change the importance of what we do.” 15 registered accountants and 1,249 associate chartered accountants were inducted. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com