Operatives at the Benin zonal office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, on Sunday, arrested 52 suspected Internet fraudsters. According to a statement by the Head of Media and Publicity, EFCC, Wilson Uwujaren, the suspects were arrested in different locations in Benin City, Edo State, following actionable intelligence. The suspects include Wisdom Attah, Alasa Solomon Osho, Jonathan Udofia, Emmanuel Udofia, Oyinbo Tejiri, Edoghogho Onsemudiana, Aisosa Ajayi, Paul Thomas Obinna, Osazuwa Osayamen, Madago Victor, Godwin Emmanuel, William Omorebokhae, Ezemo Junior, Iyamu Iyaro, Umoru Monsura, Efomwonyi Daniel, Omoruyi Lucky, Odion Omonzokpia and Aderho Collins. Others are Ereomah Emmanuel, Eric Obi Ugo, Emmanuel Godswill, Solomon Lucky, Charles Endurance, Ehibor Abraham Ebuwa, Okosun Wesley, Oyase Destiny, Elvis Ohikhuore, Ugo Nweke, Faithful Omagbemi, Shuaibu McClinton, Edward Chumosa, Onoriode Precious, and Emmanuel Precious. The list also include Adenegbe Hope Osaze, Kennedy Emma, Terry Edorodion, Edosa Rollins, Miller Ikuobase, Godwin Kelechi, Ogbolu Israel Uche, Okpodu Samson, Awosadere Daniel, Samuel Asenguah, Ugo Nweke, Charles Irengunju, ThankGod Udofa, Erickson Ororisela, Asemota Terry, Enaboakpe Robert, Odili Wisdom and Osawaru Martins. Items recovered from the suspects include six exotic cars, laptop computers, mobile phones, documents and identity cards. In a similar development, the Uyo zonal office of the commission disclosed in a statement on Monday that it had arrested five members of  a syndicate of suspected land scammers in different locations in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, over an alleged N23m scam. The statement read in part, “The suspects, whose ages range from 37 to 57, are Imaikop Okon Dickson, Pius Edem Akpan, Imeh Sam George, Godwin Inyang Obong and Lucy Akpan. “They were arrested based on a petition by one Emmanuel Etti, who alleged that in July 2020, he got a call from one Grace Anietie Otuekong (currently at large) offering to sell a landed property belonging to the mother, Lucy Akpan, purportedly to save the life of her husband, one Anietie Otuekong, who was critically ill. “According to the complainant, he was made to pay Lucy in cash, which he did in tranches to the tune of N23m. He later suspected a foul play when he requested her account details to complete the payment and the suspects disappeared. “Investigation into the matter revealed that the syndicate specialised in acquiring the master plan of a particular land and using the same to dupe unsuspecting victims after claiming to be family members. This modus operandi worked for them for years before luck ran out on them on April 28, 2021, when operatives of the commission arrested them.” The anti-graft agency added that all the suspects would be charged as soon as investigations were concluded.    ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com