The Igbo community in the United States of America, under the aegis of the World Igbo Congress, Igbo World Assembly and Nzuko Umunna, have condemned the reported shoot-on-sight order issued by the Inspector General of Police against Igbo youths. The groups in a statement on Sunday said while they were aware of the worsening security challenges in their fatherland, and concerted efforts by both state and non-state actors to arrest the situation, “what is more worrisome is the posture of the Federal Government and response by the law enforcement agents to the situation.” They said statements from the Presidency, government and law enforcement officials appeared to be laced with a desire to turn the region into a war zone rather than seek for its peace, stability and development; the worst case scenario being the latest comment credited to the IGP, Usman Baba. On Tuesday, May 18, 2021, Nigeria’s number one law enforcement officer was quoted to have said: “If anyone accuses you of human rights violation, the report will come to my table and you know what I will do. So, take the battle to them wherever they are and kill them all. Don’t wait for an order.” Reacting to Baba’s statement, the Ndigbo lamented that it amounted to a call for genocide, extrajudicial killings and human rights violations against people of the South East and South South regions. “We have waited to be sure that the IGP was either misquoted or had a Freudian slip that would be denied and clarified but none of that was done. Not only are we shocked that Baba did not deny and disassociate himself from such murderous statement but we are equally surprised that the Presidency have failed to caution and reassure the people of the zones who are already traumatised by such order that this is not the case.” The Ndigbo then urged the government to explore dialogue as an avenue to lasting peace in the regions and not a military-era shoot-at-sight order. “We are also using this opportunity to inform the international community and human rights organisations that if the government and law enforcement agents continue with bloodletting, then the President and his service chiefs will have cases to answer at the International Criminal Court.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com