If 54-year-old Adesanya Shounde had known that an impure gas and faulty refrigerator he took home to repair for one of his clients would end his life, he would have rejected the job. The job sadly ended his life on the day Muslims celebrated the end of Ramadan. That day, Shounde, with many years of experience in installation and sales of air-conditioners and refrigerators, was in a workshop in his house to fix the refrigerator after watching a Christian programme on YouTube with his family members, when a bomb-like sound explosion threw him out of the workshop. Attempts to save his life proved abortive as he died hours after the incident. READ ALSO: Northern youths blame insecurity on Jonathan’s failure to honour one-term agreement The deceased’s wife, 50-year-old Bukola, was with her three children when our correspondent visited their Abeokuta home on Thursday. She said, “We were in the house together that morning because we watched a prayer session on YouTube. After the prayer, there is another programme he normally watched, he connected to it to watch. I went to the kitchen to cook and suddenly, I heard a loud sound. I didn’t know he had left where he sat to work on the faulty refrigerator he brought home to repair. “I immediately rushed out with the kids shouting our ‘daddy.’ He emerged from the workshop area and kept saying, Ï will not die but live.’’ We immediately took him to the Federal Medical Centre. They did their best that day to calm him. We talked together and I asked him if he felt pain anywhere and he said it was only in his hands and legs. Unfortunately, on Friday evening around 4:30pm,  he told me that he wanted to sleep. I didn’t understand what he meant but afterwards, he passed on.’’ Bukola, surrounded by sympathisers, said her late husband had been repairing refrigerators since they married 23 years ago. Shounde was one of the three technicians that died in the three explosion incidents that occurred within five days in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. Five others were reported to have lost their lives to the three gas explosion incidents. Deadly explosion The first explosion occurred last week Wednesday on the eve of the Eid el fitr at Oke-Igbore, along the NTA Road in Abeokuta. The explosion killed an infant and the mother, two other people later died while some people reportedly sustained varying degrees of injury. Our correspondent gathered that two technicians visited a house in the area around 3pm to work on a faulty refrigerator. In the process of topping up the refrigerator gas, it attracted fire from cooking nearby, resulting in an explosion. The second explosion occurred on Sowemimo Street, off Mercy Road, Abeokuta, around 8.30am on the Eid-el fitr day, 24 hours after the first incident occurred and it was also caused by a refrigerator gas. The incident led to amputation of the limb of the only victim but he later died. The third explosion occurred five days after the second incident and happened in a popular hotel in Abeokuta. It was gathered that the incident happened around 12pm when a technician was working on an  automatic door at the entrance of the hotel. It was further gathered that the technician and three others, two workers and a customer, died instantly, while others reportedly sustained varying degrees of injury. Speaking with Sunday PUNCH, the hotel’s facilities manager, Tunde Oshunnubi, said during a routine maintenance of the automatic revolving door at the hotel reception, the maintenance technician used gas to weld the door hinges. He said, “The oxyacetylene gas cylinder suddenly exploded, killing the technician and one other person yet to be identified. Three people were wounded and were immediately taken to hospital. They are responding to treatment. So far no sabotage is suspected. It is suspected that the gas cylinder purchased at the open market may be fake and unable to withstand gas pressure. Information reveals that a similar incident occurred in another location in Abeokuta sometime ago with casualties. Three died instantly including an infant and her mother, two others died later while some people reportedly sustained varying degrees of injuries.’’ The Ogun State Government has sealed a gas plant and some outlets and banned gas welding following another gas explosion which injured two persons in Abeokuta on Friday. This incident occurred barely 24 hours after two persons died in an explosion that hit the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library. This incident which is the fifth explosion occurred at the Onikoko area of Abeokuta around 10am on Friday. It caused panic in the state capital. There had been five incidents of explosions in various parts of Abeokuta in the past nine days, killing about 11 people including an infant. Explosion sites Visiting the scenes of the explosion, the atmosphere of the first two incidents was calm while the other was deserted. At the Ikanna Igbore Titun, Ago Oba area of Abeokuta South local Government Area where the first explosion occurred, it was observed that the affected building was crowded with some inflammable materials such as generator, gas cylinder among others. The atmosphere at Ikanna where the explosion occurred could be described as calm as residents have yet to overcome the shock of losing their loved ones over an incident that many described as avoidable. Attempts to get the relatives of the victims of the explosion to talk failed as they all shunned overtures by our correspondent. Many of them found in the affected buildings were seen mourning the demise of their relatives, but they refused to talk about the incident. But an eyewitness told our correspondent that the explosion was caused by the leakage of a hose used in passing refrigerant fluid into the freezer, which he said caught fire from a fire from another gas cylinder for fish frying near the refrigerator. It was further gathered that the fish was for the Eid-El-Fitri celebration. According to a source, seven people sustained injuries and were moved to the FMC, Abeokuta, while the body of the motorcyclist who took the technician to where he filled the gas, was deposited at the hospital morgue. The source further said a technician identified as Sola also lost his life while two female victims; a woman and her seven-year-old daughter who were also victims, had been buried according to Islamic rites by family members. Findings showed that two technicians were carrying out refrigerant charging on a freezer situated at a place close to a naked flame which later resulted in an explosion leading to loss of five lives and left many suffering with injuries. At the FMC, one of the survivors, Ahmed Rafiu, told our correspondent the last thing he could remember was when he heard a loud noise as he started work. Rafiu said, “I was repairing and welding a fridge and had just lit the nozzle to weld when I heard an explosion. It was the last thing I could recall.’’ One of the doctors at the hospital who spoke with our correspondent on condition of anonymity, said “Five of the victims were brought to the FMC, Abeokuta and immediately we commenced treatment. One was discharged almost immediately after treatment because his injury was not bad. One died several hours after admission due to the severity of the injury. Another one was transferred because he needed Oxygen. We have two victims currently on admission and they are responding to treatment.’’ On the third explosion, while the management said two people lost their lives, it was further gathered that two others could not make it to the hospital. Sunday PUNCH learnt that a student of the Tai Solarin University of Education said to be the only son of a politician in Abeokuta and a worker of the hotel were among the dead. Some residents in the state and family members of the victims have called for a thorough investigation into the incidents. Govt to investigate cause of explosions The Special Adviser to the state governor on Environment, Ola Oresanya, disclosed that the government had begun moves to unravel the mystery behind the explosions. Oresanya said the incidents concerned three ministries-Environment, Commerce and Special duties, adding that there had been collaborations among the ministries to look into the issue to avert further occurrence. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com