The Comptroller of the Apapa Area Command, Kirikiri Lighter Terminal, Mr Hammi Swomen, and other workers within the Apapa axis have decried the never-ending gridlock  around the ports axis. “We do not drive to work for the fear of spending the whole day in traffic,” Swomen lamented. The comptroller said this while answering questions from journalists after a press briefing organised by his office. He also stressed that it was impossible to drive to work. Our correspondent spoke with a number of other people who have businesses at Apapa. A senior maritime lawyer who uses the road daily but did not want his name mentioned said, “No right-thinking person will put his car on that road. “I don’t even encourage myself to drive to work, because you may be hooked up; the day is gone. By the time you get to the office, you cannot put any man-hour. “So the best is to enter public transport, and when you get hooked, you continue your journey with public transport and move on.” Mr Seun Adeyemi, a member of staff with the Nigerian Customs Service also confirmed also lamented the effect of the gridlock on workers. He said, “There is no way I can drive through this traffic. I don’t like stress. I have never thought of driving to work before; I have never. “I come to work on public transport, specifically bike, every day. It is no one’s business how you come to work. You just find any means to report to duty and leave for the day at the right time.” In another development, Lagos State Government, in a statement signed by Femi Moliki, the state’s taskforce public affairs officer, said that LASG had served Iganmu under bridge squatters removal notice. He said, “Lagos State Environmental and Special Offences Unit, the taskforce, today served squatters at Iganma Under Bridge (White-sand) a three-day Removal Notice of all illegal structures, trucks and vehicles in the area.” He added that the chairman of the agency, CSP Shola Jejeloye, advised the owners of the illegal structures, abandoned trucks and shanties to immediately remove them as well as vacate the area within the stipulated period given to them by the state government. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com