Pacegate Energy and Resources Limited, an arm of Pacegate Limited, has inaugurated a plant in Lagos for the formulation and manufacturing of drilling chemicals and water and oil-based production chemicals. PEARL said it would provide chemical treatment solutions, laboratory testing and services, and professional field support services to the upstream and downstream oil sectors, as well as other relevant sectors. It said in a statement, “This is in a bid to meet the growing needs of the oil and gas and transportation sectors of the Nigerian economy and Africa at large. “This has been made possible by its partnership with a global energy solutions provider, Canadian Energy Solutions. The partnership sees PEARL’s wide reach in both offshore and onshore operations supported and extended by CES’ global capabilities.” Speaking on the partnership at the inauguration ceremony on Monday in Lagos, the General Manager, PEARL, Franklin Oranusih, said PEARL was established out of a desire to solve industrial challenges with innovative solutions and partnerships. He said, “We have a commitment to deliver quality and eco-friendly products as we continue to play our part in supporting local content in Africa. “As the oil and gas sector continues to grow, it is expedient that we consider the effect it has on the environment, among others. This partnership is a sign of our commitment and we are delighted to announce it.” The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Adeniyi Adebayo, said there was a need for innovative partnerships such as this to boost local content in Nigeria. “I am pleased to formally commission the first local content fluids and chemical solutions manufacturing plant in Nigeria, which represents a significant landmark for the country’s industrialisation programme,” he said. The Executive Secretary, Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board, Simbi Wabote, commended the company for investing an installed capacity of 12.9 metric tonnes into the manufacturing of chemicals solutions aspects of the hydrocarbon value chain in Nigeria. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com