Whether you call it Ondo bitumen, Loda-Agbabu-Yegbata bitumen or whatever name you want, the ultimate goal should be to have an exploration for bitumen that does not plunge the people in the producing areas into starvation and regret, like we have in the case of the oil-producing areas in Nigeria. Sincerely, one must give kudos to the Senator representing Ondo South Senatorial District, Nicholas Tofowomo, for sponsoring the bill to establish a bitumen institute (as a precursor to the exploration), in Ode-Aye, Okitipupa Local Government Area a few weeks ago. The development appears likely to break the jinx of the delayed take-off of the long-awaited bitumen exploration in Ondo State. While the commercially minded stakeholders in the proposed bitumen project are looking at it from the perspective of economic development, the farmers and the inhabitants of the areas involved see themselves as prospective victims of the hazards of the exploration. Considering the carcinogenic characteristics of bitumen exploration, proactive and lasting succour arrangements for the envisaged victims, among other things, should not be handled with levity. Although Ode-Aye has been given the priority of a bitumen institute, should the bill sail through, the even establishment and distribution of various infrastructural components, operational benefits and incentives among the towns/villages and the inhabitants will pave the way for total acceptance of the project by the people. What is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander. Agbabu town is orchestrated as sitting on top of unexplored 42.47 billion tons of bitumen, the second largest in the world. Considering the inevitable discomfort and health hazards that characterize direct toxic spillage, and all other operational negativities, it is only fair to have a Memorandum of Understanding that will spell out the rights of all the parties involved. One needs to put things right. Agbabu is just a town among other towns in the bitumen deposit area in Ondo State. Although both Agbabu and Loda share a common forest boundary, it was Loda that was long identified with bitumen before Agbabu came into the picture. The prospective mining of the Ondo State bitumen is receiving more attention on a daily basis, and it is on the verge of taking off. So, scenarios that are likely to cause misconceptions that can result in discord in the future will require a proactive approach. “Loda” is synonymous with bitumen. The name “Loda” actually is the shortened form of “Ile-oloda”, meaning “the land of bitumen deposit”. For instance, during the former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s inspection of the bitumen area in Ondo State, it was not by accident that his helicopter landed on the field of Loda High School, even when Agbabu had school fields and open spaces that could conveniently accommodate the presidential helicopter. The records are there, attempts by various administrations in Ondo State to drill boreholes for the Loda community failed because drilling machines usually met with bitumen at shallow depths. When one ascends Loda hill, from Ode-Irele, bitumen can be seen oozing out from a pit on the right side of the road, off the road, and also in many other parts of Loda forests. It has been so from time immemorial. So, many people are saying that it is a misplacement of identity to have failed to identify Loda among the foremost bitumen producing communities in Ondo State. A few people have attributed the failure to the difficulty in accessing Loda due to bad roads. Some of the exploration arrangements were probably made before the rehabilitation of the Ore-rele road. Despite the adverse consequences of bad roads on Loda town, during the movement for the creation of “Oluwa State” from Ondo State, Loda town was proposed a local government headquarters. The town is geographically positioned in the Ikale North East, Irele Local Government. It shares common boundaries with Ore Odigbo; Ode-Irele, Ikale East Central; Okitipupa Ikale Central; and Ode-Aye Ikale North. Exploration of bitumen involves mixed blessings. On the one hand, under normal circumstances, the project will create job opportunities, and enhance development, if only the communities’ rights and welfare are not trampled upon. On the other hand, the project is prone to create health hazards. According to studies, bitumen mining easily causes lung and stomach cancer, fatigue, eye irritation, cough, scratchy throat and skin rashes. Bitumen additives may cause damage to the liver, kidney and the nervous system. Therefore, explorers are compelled, in the spirit of fairness, to give priority to health security in the producing areas. In the same vein, bitumen producing environments are prone to spillage. And another serious challenge is that the inhabitants of the areas with bitumen deposits in Ondo State are farmers. And since it is not possible to prevent spillage and other operational hazards, it is human and imperative to prioritise their envisaged socio-economic pains. In this regard, a participation-oriented arrangement that guaranties their economic security and an exploitation-free environment will guarantee better friendship. Leading bitumen producing countries like China, United States, Russia, India, Canada and Malaysia are doing well, and they maintain their leading grades in the bitumen world, not only on the basis of volume, but because they account for the welfare and the dignity of all concerned. So, for the Ondo State bitumen to also retain the value of the second largest in the world, our lawmakers should make laws that will make explorers copy from all their successful counterparts in the civilised world. A cat that wears gloves catches no mice. This piece is a forerunner to the rights and responsibilities of both the inhabitants of producing areas and explorers. It is also a human interest property. It also serves as a caution and a guide to enhance goodwill and fairness to all concerned. The experience of the villagers of the Oloibiri and Otuabagi oilfields is an eye-opener. Oloibiri is an Ijaw village in Ogbai Local Government Area, Bayelsa State. Records have it that Oloibiri village was Nigeria’s first glance at oil fortune in 1956. Thereafter, it became obvious that oil was flowing in the creeks of the Niger Delta, a component-region of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. In 1958, Nigeria became an oil producing country, showcasing 5,100 bpd. This development not only added to the fame of Nigeria, it was also a boost to her economy. In the same vein, Nigerians saw the exploration as a prospective commonwealth. The hope of many, particularly the inhabitants of the oil producing areas was higher than ever. Little did they know that the oil wealth would eventually bring disunity, and promote poverty in the producing areas. Astonishingly, the inhabitants of Oloibiri and Otuabagi villages, from 1958 till date, have more or less nothing to show for their God-given oil wells. All of these odds were as a result of lack of respect for human dignity, unfairness and exploitation-driven antics. Experience has shown that no matter how small, no producing community is ready to absorb exasperation anymore. Therefore, an exploitation-free bitumen exploration will be beneficial to all concerned. Meaning that, in such a caring exploration environment, the likes of the sad and unbearable experience that forced tolerance out of the Niger Delta youth will be avoided in the name of fairness. Temionu, a public affairs analyst, wrote in via temorgent @ yahoo.com Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com