The acting National Leader of a pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere, Pa Ayo Adebanjo, has asked the youth to take their position as change agents in the country. He maintained that the present regime had failed Nigerians and the youth had refused to charge the government to work in the interest of the country. He stated this at the 95th birthday of the leader of the Afenifere, Pa Reuben Fasoranti, and the dedication of Reuben Fasoranti Chapel at the Anglican Grammar School, Iju/Ita-Ogbolu in the Akure North Local Government Area of the state, on Tuesday. The chapel was built by the old students’ association of the school. Adebanjo stated that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd) ought to have stepped down from government due to the condition of the country. He said, “I have told them that in a better and civilised country, he (Buhari) should have gone long ago. If he has self respect, he should have gone because everything has failed. “What is he presiding over? Is it over corruption, security, education? Law and order has broken down in the country for the past three years. It is only because Nigerians are over-tolerant of despots, that is why he (Buhari) is still there. “But as a Christian, I still have hope. If Nigerians are conscious of their rights, they know what to do. Where is the demonstration (of youths) in the country that the Buhari government must go? The younger generation has failed the country. The country was not as bad as this when we were demonstrating for self governance then. They (youths) want the old men to fight their cause for them. Why should people like me be in the trenches at 93 and Baba Fasoranti at 95? Where are those in their 40s and 30s? “When we were at their age, we were in the streets of Lagos, London, everywhere and when we were in the university…. The youths should be ashamed of themselves.” In his sermon at the thanksgiving service held in honor of the nonagenarian, the Bishop of the Diocese of Akure, Church of Nigeria, Anglican Communion, Simeon Borokini, described Fasoranti as a hero who fought for the political and economic development of the country. He urged Nigerians to turn to God and shun evil ways. In his remarks, the state Governor, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, who was represented by the Deputy Governor, Mr Lucky Aiyedatiwa, said Fasoranti was one of the best Nigerians that had rendered selfless service to the country, especially the Yoruba nation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com