Dahua Paper Company Nigeria Limited said it is ready to invest $500m on tree plantation for paper production in Ogun State. A statement by the Ministry of Industry, trade and Investment, Ogun State, said on Thursday. It said a working partner in Dahua, Prince Bayo Ikujenyo, disclosed this when the Commissioner, Industry, trade and Investment, Kikelomo Longe, paid a visit to the company. The company stated that the project, a 10,000 hectare tree plantation, would be segmented into tranches of 2,500 hectares each year for four years. Ikujenyo said the company had sought the approval of the state government for the 10,000 hectares of land required, as the project would also require a minimum of 5,000 directly employed workers. He said the project would create two million jobs indirectly, generate foreign exchange through exports, and strengthen the currency. Ikujenyo also disclosed that the company was already expanding the capacity of its paper recycling plant from a daily production capacity of 500 tonnes to 1,100 tonnes. He lauded the present administration for providing enabling environment for businesses to flourish in a deliberate manner. The statement said Longe assured that her ministry would work with the ministry of forestry to accelerate the processing of the 10,000 hectares of land requested by the company. Ogun State Government, she added, would continue to create enabling environment through the provision of infrastructure and implementation of business-friendly policies. Speaking during the interactive session, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Industry, Trade and Investment, Remi Ogunmefun, said that Ogun had been deliberate in its approach towards attracting more investments and helping them grow. He said the state was focused on remaining investors’ preferred destination in Nigeria. The ministry’s Permanent Secretary, Olu-Ola Aikulola, called on firms to continue to engage the ministry for the necessary assistance on issues that would help their businesses grow, adding that the government was willing to support the expansion of businesses in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com