The online casino industry has seen tremendous growth globally in recent years, with the entire niche really thriving and developing over the last decade. This trend has been particularly prominent in South Africa, a region that has seen considerable transformation and evolution – especially in the world of online gambling and, in particular, online sports betting – an industry that has exploded in popularity since 2016. A combination of low margins, predominantly fixed costs, strict regulations, and a large profit potential have seen online gambling take off. A recent study showed that the gambling industry in South Africa had enjoyed its second-largest gain in GGR (gross gambling revenue) since 2015, with revenue rising 11.2% in 2015 alone – and this only increased from 2016-2020, which saw an average of 6% increase. While the classic South Africa online casino has long been a favorite of many online casino fans, the sports betting aspect has taken a while to catch up. This too has grown, however, and risen across the region for the last few years. However, there are examples of increased popularity in gambling across Africa; South Africa was one of the first to create gambling regulations, which has helped them stay ahead of the curve. While there are still concerns over the risks of illegal gambling – and the financial cost this is having on governments – the trend is still very much moving upwards. There are five main areas of the online casino industry which have seen a huge rise in recent years, and we will explore these below. As you may expect, online casinos were the top winner and made up 70% of total revenues in 2015 – this was still a win, despite being down from the 2011 numbers. In South Africa, a few areas continued to dominate, including Gauteng, Kwa – Zulu Natal, and the Western Cape. However, the geographical limitations of the continent have seen online casinos continue to rise and grow, particularly in North Africa. Rural locations and the sheer size of Africa mean that people turn to mobiles to stay in touch and communicate. Here, over 290 million people have and use mobile phones, and this is a market that generates over $90 billion per year. In areas far from the big cities, online casinos are the only way to enjoy the thrill of the game. Betting is another market that has seen plenty of growth in Africa and ranked as the fastest growers of the last few years – this is largely due to the legalization of online wagering, which, in turn, resulted in a boost in sports betting across the continent. Badminton, in particular, has seen a huge rise in popularity and is one of the sports most commonly bet on by African sports punters. This trend is almost certain to increase with the proliferation of broadband, mobile accessibility, and online gaming throughout the region. Bingo is perhaps an unexpected growth in the world of online gambling across Africa. Still, it has played its part in helping the industry grow and flourish over the last half-decade and has played a key role in the rising profits and value of online gaming throughout Africa. Another growth sector that may be a surprise is the national lottery, which saw a growth in sales after a period of decline. The boost of the economies of African countries allowed a greater number of people to take a chance and play the game – and the increase of available technology meant that buying a ticket has never been so easy, increasing accessibility and the appeal of the lottery for thousands of players across the continent. One of the main motivations for the rise in the gambling industry across Africa comes from reducing restrictions and legislation. Endeavors have been made to pass legislation that restricts online gambling and the payment transactions of any unlicensed operators – this was seen as a crucial move to keep gamblers safe and secure, as well as helping to ensure that individuals are gambling responsibly. While the intentions may have been in gamers’ best interests, they also had issues, namely, reducing accessibility to online gambling and casino spaces. Regulators and legislators have recognized the potential for profit within the industry and the range of investment opportunities that could make this an incredible boost for countries’ economic systems across Africa. This has resulted in a call for a less restrictive set of laws and regulations, which appears to have been heeded. According to the stats, the online gaming industry is due to record an amazing, record-breaking compound growth rate of 12% over the next few years – and this is a great incentive to boost growth in the industry. As the access to mobile technology continues to grow and evolve, it seems extremely likely that Africa is set to continue its upward trend. Figures, statistics, and anecdotes all come together to demonstrate that online casinos and games are only increasing in popularity – and this helps to make them covetable investments for those in the know. The figures in Africa are showing that the popularity of online gambling is going up. What about the rest of the world? Is online gambling still as attractive to the players as it once was? When observing the global situation, one thing remains in focus. The user activity in online casinos keeps increasing. Even after all these years, online casinos are recording an increase in user activity. Half of the revenue is generated by mobile gaming as most casinos allow players to access the websites using their smartphones or tablets. The main concern in Africa seems to be around regulations, laws, and restrictions, though designed to protect players and gamers, making it harder for online sites to rise and flourish. While lawmakers are keen to protect players, they recognize that implementing harsh restrictions and conditions means that many casinos will be unable to operate -a fact which is bad news for both the players themselves and the wider economy. Therefore, it seems likely that countries throughout the continent will continue to experiment, innovate and create, and that their pool of players will ensure a consistent market. In the upcoming period, we can expect many changes and improvements on sites, a host of brand new opportunities, and for the online casino market to contribute to a larger proportion of the overall economy – just watch this space!