The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board on Monday said it had traced a large number of individuals seeking an extension to the UTME registration deadline to fraudsters who are hell-bent on subverting and bypassing the decision of the Federal Government to make the National Identification Number a requirement for JAMB registration. It said further extension of the registration period was not feasible. The Board, however, said only candidates with genuine proofs of failed efforts will be allowed new extension dates. The Board’s position was contained in a statement titled ‘Issues surrounding the 2021 UTME/DE registration.’ Recall that the board had on May 15, 2021, in response to the pressure from the public, announced a two-week extension of the registration period of the 2021 UTME/DE exercise from Saturday 15th to Saturday 29th, May 2021. However, the statement disclosed that the number of registrants fell drastically until towards the new closing date. The statement read in part, “At the new closing date (29th May 2021), one million, three hundred and eighty-three thousand, four hundred and twenty candidates procured the pin for registration while one million, three hundred and seventy-five thousand, six hundred and ninety-four have completed registration. “Despite this, there were complaints of inability to register due to lateness or non-delivery of NIN verification code; inability to obtain NIN; mismatch or wrong names originally submitted to NIMC (and different from the ones being used for the JAMB registration) etc. “While very few of such excuses have been found to be genuine, a large number is traceable to fraudsters who are hell-bent on subverting the system and bypassing the well thought out decision of the Federal Government to make NIN a requirement for JAMB registration. “Due to time constraints within the window available to JAMB on the Annual National Examinations Timetable, further extension of the registration period is not feasible. “Nevertheless, the board is desirous of availing every prospective candidate the opportunity to still try to participate in the 2021 registration exercise.” According to the statement, only prospective candidates with genuine proof(s) of failed efforts to register before the closing date are to between Monday 31st May and 15th June 2021 visit any JAMB offices which includes JAMB owned professional Test Centres to obtain forms that are being made available to candidates who missed out on registration with genuine reasons at no cost. It also stated, “Submit (for reading test and application) a certified bank draft of N4,000 only in Favor of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board- JAMB and obtain a signed duplicate copy from the office). “Submit the completed form with a recent passport photograph at the same office of collection; “Collect a copy of the reading test; “Await further directives through the registered phone number and public service announcement through 9pm NTA network NEWS as soon as screening is completed. The Board further reiterated its decision on the requirement of NIN in the registration process and issued stern warnings to the public. “There is no registration for 2021 UTME/DE without a properly obtained NIN which has to be verified/validated by NIMC “Anyone who submits another application after having successfully registered during the earlier registration period will have the two attempts disqualified. “Any false claim will attract severe sanctions, including forfeiture of the deposited bank draft, cancellation of application, prosecutions, etc. “Due to the fact that some parents and school proprietors have been found to mislead candidates for illicit gains and personal aggrandizement, the Board advises all to allow each candidate to personally go through the process. The statement finally added, “JAMB does not tolerate the involvement of any third party or group in the registration process.”