No fewer than two thousand persons have fled communities in the Andoni Local Government Area of Rivers State following clashes between rival cults in the area. Recall that two leaders of the Movement for the Emancipation of Niger Delta were recently killed during a reprisal by suspected cultists from the Icelanders group. A community leader, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said since the duo were killed, there had been constant invasion and attacks between the two groups, which had led to the death of many. He said, “People have been forced to become refugees in neighbouring Ogoni villages on account of the onslaught by gunmen who have overrun 10 villages and are still planning to attack more. “They entered Ataba community, fired several warning shots and vandalised the king’s residence. They sometimes waylay fishermen within Andoni territorial waters, giving orders as to where they will fish. “The attacked communities are Obiama, Ajakajak, Samanga, Ibot-Irem, Dema, Otunria, Otuafu, Ogbonte, Egbomung. Some women have not seen their children for the past one month since they ran from their villages. “Over two thousand Andoni people are scattered in various communities in Ogoni as refugees. They are exposed to hunger and cold.” Meanwhile, the Peace and Reconciliation Committee in Andoni said it had commenced work on resolving the cult-related crises in the area. A member of the committee and President General, Obolo Youths Coalition, Ijonama Mkpon, pleaded with the people of the area to work with the panel and stakeholders in order to bring lasting peace to Andoni LGA. The spokesman for the state police command, Nnamdi Omoni, said policemen and men of the Nigeria Navy had been deployed in the area, adding that normalcy had been restored. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com