For about a decade, Nigeria has been fighting different insurgent groups with no end in sight. First is Boko Haram, a jihadist terrorist organisation based in the North-East but also active in the republics of Chad, Niger, and northern Cameroon. Known for its brutality, Boko Haram has reportedly killed tens of thousands of people and reportedly displaced 2.3 million from their homes. At a time, the sect was rated the world’s deadliest terror group on the Global Terrorism Index, a report published annually by the Institute for Economics and Peace. Another insurgent group that has consistently wreaked havoc on communities in the country is the Fulani herders group, which was once rated as the fourth deadliest terrorist group in the world by the Global Terrorism Index. Only Boko Haram, ISIS, and al-Shabab were deemed deadlier than the Fulani militant group, made up of semi-nomadic pastoral individuals from the Fula tribe existing across several West African countries. Then comes the bandit gangs in the North-West operating in states like Kaduna, Zamfara, Katsina, Benue, and Niger. The criminal gangs have been terrorising communities, attacking villages, pillaging, raping girls and women, stealing cattle, ambushing travellers, and kidnapping people. Adopting similar tactics to Boko Haram, the bandits have also turned to mass kidnapping of schoolchildren, seizing hundreds of students in a string of raids on schools and negotiating for their release through ransoms. In 2019, the Zamfara State government estimated that there were more than 10,000 bandits in 40 camps across the state alone. Between 2011 and 2019, up to 3,600 people were said to have been kidnapped in the state. Around 8,000 people were killed during the period while 200,000 were displaced, according to the International Crisis Group. Also, the activities of the different insurgent groups have resulted in regional food crises and famines, among others. Can a country win the war on terrorism and insurgency? Experts believe so, but say it requires more than military power. For instance, Philip Gordon, American diplomat, foreign policy expert and Special Assistant to the United States President Joe Biden, said the war on terror would end with the collapse of the violent ideology that caused it. Gordon, who is also the Deputy National Security Advisor to the US Vice-President, Kamala Harris, stated this in his work titled, ‘Can the War on Terror Be Won? How to Fight the Right War.’ Gordon wrote that just as the Cold War ended only when one side essentially gave up on a bankrupt ideology, the battle against Islamist terrorism would be won when the ideology that underpins it loses its appeal. “The Cold War ended not with US forces occupying the Kremlin but when the occupant of the Kremlin abandoned the fight; the people he governed had stopped believing in the ideology they were supposed to be fighting for,” Gordon said in his piece published by the Brookings Institution. Some foreign policy and counterinsurgency experts in Nigeria also believe the war on terror can be won only when the government makes conscious efforts to uproot the ideologies behind terror in the first place. The experts said this was why it was surprising that the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), did not sack or suspend the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami, over his pro-terrorism ideologies in the past. A former Nigerian envoy to Singapore, Ambassador Ogbole Amedu-Odeh, said the Presidency’s support for Pantami could send the wrong signal to the international scene, especially in the fight against terror. He said, “Whatever is being said about the minister are allegations, but the truth is that there has been some evidence in terms of his comments which were captured on tape. “Now, this affects Nigeria’s image because we are fighting terrorism. Foreign policy is a projection of our domestic policy. When Mr President was sworn in, he took a tour of our neighbouring countries to seek their support in fighting terrorism. So if his cabinet member is alleged [of supporting terrorist organisations], the signals out there won’t be positive.” Pantami in the 2000s had made some controversial comments in support of the activities of global terrorist groups, Al-Qaeda and Taliban. “This jihad is an obligation for every single believer, especially in Nigeria,’’ Pantami was quoted as saying in one of his vicious preaching in the 2000s. “Oh God, give victory to the Taliban and Al-Qaeda,” he was quoted to have also said In other audio clips that surfaced online, Pantami was also heard as sympathetic to Boko Haram members when delivering sermons at several worship centres in the 2000s. However, Pantami claimed he had renounced his radical comments and said his views had changed over time. He said he had in the past 15 years been traversing the country to preach against terrorism. Despite the minister’s claim, foreign policy and counterinsurgency analysts said the minister ought to have resigned due to public backlash and be investigated by the authorities. Should he fail to resign, some commentators said he ought to be sacked by the President. But the Presidency, in glaring support for Pantami, dismissed the possibility of sacking the controversial minister because he had allegedly apologised for his radical views. “The views were absolutely unacceptable then, and would be equally unacceptable today, were he to repeat them. But he will not repeat them – for he has publicly and permanently condemned his earlier utterances as wrong,” the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media & Publicity, Garba Shehu, said. “In the 2000s, the minister was a man in his twenties; next year he will be 50. Time has passed, and people and their opinions – often rightly – change,” Shehu added. However, Amedu-Odeh, the ex-Nigerian envoy to Singapore, said even though the minister had apologised, the Buhari regime should investigate the allegations critically. “The impressions outside with the way the Presidency handled the allegations will be negative. We can’t be fighting terrorism and then be seen harbouring someone accused of being sympathetic to terrorist organisations. It’s quite a difficult position for the government to be in,” he said. Also, the Executive Director, International Centre for Peace and Human Development, Mr Clement Iornongu, said it was very difficult to believe the minister’s ideology had changed overnight. “War is first constructed in the heart before it is expressed in action, and the truth of the matter is that it’s very difficult for the mind to deconstruct such a position. An ideology can’t be easily erased,” he said. Iornongu said allowing the minister to stay in office would have dangerous implications. He said, “It’s a very delicate situation we are in, considering the position of the government on Pantami. Having openly identified and expressed his mind in the way and manner he did – identifying with global terrorist groups – it’s distracting for such a person to stay in office. “This will affect Nigerians’ trust in the government and the minister, especially. Already, many Nigerians think the situation is beyond what the eyes can see. Otherwise, in other climes, the minister would have resigned and not waiting for backing by the Presidency when a large number of citizens are already casting doubt on his integrity.” “Public confidence in the minister has waned, and this is a major implication,” Iornongu added. Counterinsurgency expert and a retired Captain in the United States Army, Bishop Johnson, said the Presidency’s backing for Pantami could wane the support given to Nigeria by foreign countries in the anti-terrorism war. Johnson said the government’s action could also demoralise the troops on the battlefield, insisting that Pantami’s repentance was no escape way for him to stay in office. He said, “One of the cardinal points this administration presented when it came into office in 2015 was to end insecurity, particularly Boko Haram insurgency. For such an administration to be seen as condoning someone who had shown affection and support for terrorist organisations doesn’t portray the administration in good light. The government will not be seen as serious in fighting terrorism. “The President is seeking international support to fight terrorism, but foreign countries will first consider efforts being made by the Buhari government to fight terrorism before being granted any support. The Presidency’s backing for Pantami can also demoralise the troops.” Johnson stated that even when the repercussions were not glaring now, they would in years to come continue to affect Nigeria’s image on the international scene. He said, “I have heard arguments that since Pantami has repented, he should be forgiven. What this implies is that in the future, Abubakar Shekau [Boko Haram leader] can come out to apologise, and then since he is apologising, some people would say we should forgive him and move on. “We may not be able to ascertain the level of impact of what is happening now until years later – when the future generations would read that a man who was sympathetic to the activities of terrorist organisations was made a minister.” A former US’s envoy to Nigeria, Ambassador John Campbell, in a piece he wrote for the Council on Foreign Relations, a think tank based in New York, said for the time being, Pantami had become a lightning rod for those deeply suspicious of Islam and also of the Buhari administration. “The significance of the episode would seem to be that it illustrates the polarisation in Nigerian society and politics – and that past injudicious and harmful statements can catch up,” said Campbell. Meanwhile, the Director, Centre for China Studies, Abuja, Mr Charles Onunaiju, argued that when put in context, Pantami’s views in the 2000s might not be different from those held by an average Muslim in the North in those years. He said, “During that period in northern Nigeria, right before the advent of Boko Haram, an average northern Muslim saw the Taliban and Al-Qaeda as fighting an Islamic cause. But when Boko Haram came, many Muslims began to isolate themselves from that strand of Islam, which is terroristic and anti-mainstream Islam. In fact, many Muslims condemn the ideology of Boko Haram because it involves the killing of people. “So if you place Pantami’s views within the context at the time, he might not have strayed away from an average Muslim’s thinking at the time. Many of them were clearly angered at the Afghanistan invasion by the United States and viewed the US’ act as imperialism.” “I have not heard Pantami’s scripts. But if we look at the context at the time, we can pass over it since he has renounced his previous comments and changed his views,” Onunaiju said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com