Rabiu Ali scored an 80th minute winner for Kano Pillars against Adamawa United at the Ahmadu Bello Stadium, Kaduna on Sunday to help the Kano-based side secure a 1-0 victory in the Nigeria Professional Football League, in Super Eagles captain, Ahmed Musa’s first game since returning to the club. Pillars captain Ali handed Musa the captain’s armband before kick-off as a sign of respect to the winger, who was returning to his boyhood club for a second spell. The Adamawa-based side, who have been the league’s whipping boys, curtailed Pillars for most part of the tie, but Pillars were handed a lifeline in the 70th minute after Ali was upended inside the box. The forward, however, spilled the resultant penalty, blazing his effort wide. Ali however made amends 10 minutes later, running onto a through pass from Musa to give Pillars a 1-0 win. There were four away victories recorded elsewhere on match-day 21 of the NPFL. Nasarawa United secured a 2-1 victory over Wikki Tourists at the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa Stadium, Bauchi. In Enugu, Godwin Aguda’s eighth minute goal was enough to help Rivers United seal a 1-0 victory over Enugu Rangers, while Charles Atshimene’s brace in the 11th and 48th minutes helped Akwa United secure a derby day victory over Dakkada FC. In Ozoro, MFM saw off hosts Warri Wolves  2-0 through goals from Ifeanyi Onyebuchi in the 26th minute and Clement Ogwu in the 39th minute. Sunshine Stars’ woes continued as they played a barren draw against visiting Jigawa Golden Stars. The Akure-based side have now failed to win in their last 14 league games – the last coming in their 3-1 victory over Enugu Rangers on January 31. Heartland won 2-0 at home against Katsina United, while Kwara United and Lobi Stars defeated visiting Plateau United and FC IfeanyiUbah respectively by the same margin. After 21 games, Akwa United are top of the NPFL with 40 points, same as Pillars in second, while Kwara occupy the third position, just one point adrift. Rivers United complete the top four with 38 points . Adamawa are rooted to the bottom of the log with 12 points, while Sunshine, Wolves and IfeanyiUbah occupy the 17th, 18th and 19th positions respectively with 20, 20 and 17 points. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com