From Ado-Ekiti to Adamawa, Lagos to Lafia, Kafanchan to Kajola and Maiduguri to Mbaise, Nigerians on Saturday night moved away from the things that divide them, albeit momentary, and relished the pride of victory derived from patriotism as Nigerian duo — Kelechi Iheanacho and Wilfred Ndidi — made the records with Leicester’s win of the FA Cup for the first time in the club’s 137-year history. The PUNCH had earlier reported that Leicester won the FA Cup after Youri Tielemans’s sensational strike disgraced Chelsea 1-0 in front of 22,000 fans at Wembley. With Leicester’s victory, Nigerian Kelechi Iheanacho and Wilfred Ndidi made the records of becoming the joint eighth Super Eagles players to win the FA cup. Seven other Nigerian players who had won the FA Cup are Daniel Amokachi, Nwankwo Kanu, Celestine Babayaro, John Utaka, John Mikel Obi, Victor Moses and Alex Iwobi. In jubilation for Saturday win, the Leicester boys flaunted the green-white-green Nigerian flag before the 22,000 fans at Wembley as photographers from all over the world clicked the shutters of their cameras to record the historic moment. Saturday’s victory has been described as a victory for the most populous black African nation as many Nigerians took to the social media to applaud the players for lifting Nigeria high overseas. Former Vice-President, Atiku Abubakar, tweeted, “I celebrate with @67Kelechi and @Ndidi25 of @LCFC for ensuring that Nigeria’s flag was raised at the FA Cup finals. #FACupFinal.” Minister of State, Labour and Employment, Festus Keyamo, also wrote, “Big congratulations to our Nigerian duo in Leicester City FC, Wilfred Ndidi and Kelechi Iheanacho as they lift the FA Cup in England.” Human rights activist, Aisha Yesufu, enthused the victory of the Nigerian Leicester boys in a cryptic, “Naija won! All I see is the green white green. #FACupFinal.” Award-winning journalist, Fisayo Soyombo, tweeted, “Congratulations to senior man Kelechi Iheanacho and his vibe mate Wilfred Ndidi, the latest FA Cup kings. Very well-deserved victory!” Another tweep, @Jiji_Byte, stated, “Congratulations brothers. Iheanacho and Ndidi brought it home.” “Congratulations to Wilfred Ndidi and Kelechi Iheanacho for winning the FA Cup,” @deejayfaremi.