The weekend is here again and, thanks to the holiday season, it probably will be a restful period for many. Either you are enjoying the warmth of your home or the bubbly atmosphere of a cinema, grab your popcorn and pack of beverage as The PUNCH highlights six movies that would make your weekend worthwhile.  Everything But A Man Cast: Monica Calhoun, Jimmy Jean-Louis, Camille Winbush, Dio Johson, Mike Faiola. Duration: 1 hour 50 minutes Genre: Romance Synopsis: Comedic, dramatic and sexual tensions collide when a man and a woman from two different worlds meet, fall in love, and then discover they have totally opposite beliefs and ideas about life, love and what it takes to be happy. A contently single career woman finds unexpected love with a handyman from another culture, but their drastic lifestyle differences cause as much conflict as there is chemistry between them. The movie is currently streaming on Netflix. Mama Drama Cast: Osas Ighodaro, Kehinde Bankole, Kunle Remi, Shaffy Bello, Kunle Remi, Femi Adebayo Salami, Opeyemi Aiyeola, Olive Emodi, Rekiya Atta. Duration: 1 hour 44 minutes Genre: Comedy Synopsis: After years of fertility issues and her mother-in-law’s nagging, a woman hires her assistant as a surrogate. But things don’t go as smoothly as planned. Mama Drama also touches on surrogacy, family ties, marriage and the troubles of Mothers-in-law. It further tackles the issue of men getting married to older spouses. The movie is currently streaming on Netflix. Dear Affy Cast: Toyin Abraham, Enyinna Nwigwe, Kehinde Bankole, Odunlade Adekola, Chinedu Ikedieze, Bimbo Ademoye, Hafiz Oyetoro, Chiwetalu Agu, Lizzy Jay. Duration: 2 hours 5 minutes Genre: Comedy Synopsis: Dear Affy is a romantic comedy with a super plot twist, which tells the story of a beautiful career lady about to get married to the man of her dreams, who is on the verge of sealing millions of Naira worth of contract with a conglomerate in the construction industry. However, he is faced with the devil and the deep blue sea as sealing the contract is hinged on him having an intimate affair with the female billionaire contractor by all means just a few weeks to his wedding. The movie is currently streaming on Netflix.  The Wait Cast: Deyemi Okanlawon, Ini Dima Okojie, Nse Ikpe Etim, Uche Chika Elumelu. Duration: 1 hour 50 minutes Genre: Comedy Synopsis: The lives of two couples, a job seeker, and a passionate doctor intertwine in a tale of patience and redemption. The thriller is inspired by ‘Waiting Room’ — a faith-based book by renowned lawyer and entrepreneur, Yewande Zaccheaus. The film borders on multiple characters as they struggle through disappointments of infertility, just like in Zaccheaus’ book, which details the experiences of women on their journeys to fertility. The movie is currently showing in cinemas. Dream Job Cast: Ngozi Nwosu, Sophie Alakija, Stanley Chibuna, Timini Egbuson, Williams Uchemba. Duration: 1 hour 45 minutes Genre: Comedy Synopsis: The film tells the story of a mummy’s boy that seems to be unlucky in securing his dream job. He, however, has a taste of success when he finds luck from a strange beggar’s prayers, leading him to live the life of his dream. The movie is currently showing in cinemas. Mimi Cast: Alibaba, Bianca Ugowanne, Bimbo Akintola, Bro Bouche, Deyemi Okanlawon, Ireti Doyle, Jide Kosoko, Kie Kie, Lateef Adedimeji. Duration: 1 hour 57 minutes Genre: Comedy Synopsis: Mimi tells the story of how a rich, spoilt girl, who despises and shows no remorse for the poor, found out that her extremely rich parents weren’t her biological parents and that her real parents ‘sold’ her off at a young age to raise some funds to train her siblings. The movie is currently showing in cinemas.