PARENTS of the 27 students of Federal College of Forestry Mechanisation, Afaka, Kaduna, on Thursday, waited in vain as they couldn’t be reunited with their children released by bandits after over 50 days in their den. No official reason(s) as to why the 27 abducted students were not reunited with the families as planned on Wednesday after they were released by their captors. The parents, who gathered as early 8pm to receive their children at the school premises along the Kaduna International Airport road opposite the Nigerian Defence Academy, were disappointment but not down. They were all full of excitements and departed from the school around 2pm. It was gathered that the students who looked weak on arrival were taken for medical attention. Meanwhile, the parents expressed their gratitude to all Nigerians, home and abroad, for their sustained prayers and solidarities in their trying periods. Specifically, the parents thanked former Nigeria President Olusegun Obasanjo; ex-Head of State, General Abdulsalami Abubakar; Deji Adeyanju and Omoyele Sowore, among others, for their struggle and efforts, which led to the release of the remaining 27 abducted students. A statement issued by the Chairman of Forum and Secretary, Abdullahi Usman and Catherine Saleh, respectively also clarified that 27 students and not 29 as reported by some media were released by the bandits. “They are 27, not 29, as reported by some nation’s media. The total abducted students were 39, out of which two escaped not long after the abduction, 10 were released in two batches of five each, leaving the remaining 27, who were released yesterday, Wednesday, May 5, 2021, 56 days after their abduction,” the statement read in part. The parents prayed for the repose of the soul of Malam Ibrahim, one of the parents of the abducted students, who died as a result of the trauma that resulted from the abduction of his daughter. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com