The APC in Rivers State has called on governors of the South-South to call for an urgent meeting to address growing threats to the security of the region. The Publicity Secretary of the APC in Rivers State, Ogbonna Nwuke made the call in a statement issued in Port Harcourt, the State capital on Tuesday. Nwuke, a loyalist of the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, said the call was necessary in order to avert the destabilisation of the oil-bearing region. The party further said attacks in Rivers and Akwa Ibom States had shown that unless something urgent was done to involve stakeholders, the entire region would be sufficiently placed under threat. The statement reads, “A stitch in time they say saves nine. It is our hope that the Governors of the South-South would call a broad-based meeting of stakeholders in the region to address threats to South-South security. “It is urgent; it is needful, and we think that the time to gather South-South people to find solutions to attacks from outside is now. This is the third time that an attack would be carried out on Rivers soil by persons whose identities are unknown. As we speak, at least 21 security operatives have been killed since the attacks began.” While commiserating with families of those who were killed, the party expressed worry that those behind the wicked act were beginning to create fear among people of the state. It added, “These people, whoever they are, are gradually expanding the frontiers of terror. The APC believes that the occurrence of these incidents should serve as a wake-up call among Rivers people and all other peace-loving persons who are residents in our State. “We urge Rivers people to be vigilant and appeal to those who want to turn Rivers State into a battleground to desist. On the whole, the security agencies need the support of the people. They need valuable information in order to combat terror. “The APC wishes to reiterate that what is happening goes beyond party lines, beyond politics. The foundation upon which our peace and security as a people is anchored is being threatened. “While we hope that the Rivers State Government and the security agencies will live up to their obligations in terms of protecting the people as well as institutions of State, we appeal to all law-abiding citizens to support the authorities through information sharing.”