The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Ekiti State Command, has arrested a 20-year-old woman, Muibat Ahmed, for alleged possession of an illegal substance suspected to be cannabis sativa. The state Commandant, NSCDC, Mr Solomon Iyamu, said the suspect, in the process of trying to resist arrest, inflicted injuries on the officer, who was drafted to effect her arrest. Iyamu, who made the disclosure in Ado Ekiti on Saturday while parading the suspect alongside 10 others arrested during the Eid-el Fitri holidays, said the command was still investigating the incident, adding that Ahmed would be charged with illicit drug possession and assault. The commandant alleged that another suspect, 58-year-old Michael Ogundare, was arrested at Ikere Ekiti for alleged food poisoning and rape. The NSCDC boss said, “He (Ogundare) was believed to have forcibly penetrated the victim through her anus. He had earlier allegedly fed her with suspected poisonous food, which made her to become unconscious and incapacitated.” He said another suspect, Olusegun Olasunkanmi, 21, was arrested in the Adebayo area of Ado Ekiti for cyber stalking. “The suspect had carnal knowledge of a minor and took her nude pictures, which he sent to his friends without the knowledge of the victim,” Iyamu stated. According to him, three other male suspects from Plateau State, identified as Manpol, 25; Gina, 30; and John Dashir, were also arrested in Ado Ekiti for allegedly breaking into a supermarket and stealing bags of rice and other valuables. Iyamu added that five male suspects, Aladegoroye Michael, 35; Abubakar Musa, 20; Imuraina Haruna, 20; Zaiyaru Usman, 25; and Mustapha Abdullahi, 25, were arrested in Emure Ekiti for conspiracy and stealing of six split air conditioners belonging to a bank in the town. “The suspects explained that the Chief Security Officer of the bank sold the items to them,” he stated. The NSCDC commandant, who said all the suspects were in the custody of the command assisting with investigation, added that they would be charged after the Judiciary workers’ strike. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com