THE Minority Caucus of the House of Representatives, has charged the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, to beam its searchlight on leading figures of the All Progressives Congress as well as government officials instead of hounding opposition parties. Minority Leader of the House, Ndudi Elumelu, said this in a statement titled, ‘PDP: Reps Minority Caucus Tackles EFCC over Probe, Demands Similar Invitation to APC, FG Officials.’ The EFCC is investigating allegations contained in a petition filed by a member of the party, Kassim Afegbua against the Uche Secondus-led National Working Committee of the PDP. Afegbua had alleged among other things that N10bn raised from the sale of the party’s nomination forms were yet to be accounted for. The statement read in part, “The minority caucus in the House of Representatives has noted the moves by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission to witch hunt and pry into the books of the leading opposition Peoples Democratic Party, even when it lacks statutory powers to do so. “We have noted the moves by the EFCC to pry into the internal administration of the PDP, a political party, contrary to the crystal-clear provisions of the 1999 constitution (as amended), particularly sections 225 and 226, which vest the scrutiny of party finances in the Independent National Electoral Commission. “Nevertheless, we have no doubts that the PDP will come out clean because they have nothing to hide.” “However, now that the EFCC is busying itself to probe the PDP, we demand forthwith that it also invite the officials of the APC and commence an inquest into the books of the APC. This is more so as the APC is the party that has access to Federal Government funds, and as such, has questions to answer particularly in the face of volumes of allegations in the public domain towards that direction.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com