Following allegations of graft levelled against a civil society organisation, Feminist Coalition, concerning the spending of #EndSARS funds, the organisation has released an audit report of its financial statements which detailed how #EndSARS funds were utilised. The organisation had played a major role in the October 2020 #EndSARS protests against police brutality and extrajudicial killings. However, the coalition, which received over N150m donation for #EndSARS, has been under fire for releasing its financial report to “donors” only, while critics demand that the group makes the report public. The coalition tweeted on Saturday, “Donors to the October 2020 peaceful #EndSARS protests have been emailed a copy of the completed audit. Thank you again to all who donated.” The release of the audits has brought about varying reactions on social media, especially as regards the mode of sharing of the report. Questioning why the report was not made public via Twitter, but instead sent to individual donors, @iSlimfit wrote, “Femco did a great job during the #EndSARS protest and it’s very commendable. I just came across the audit report on this same TL. Wondering why they couldn’t just post it to avoid all the drama.” Another tweep, @Iamjosephetim, who insisted Nigerians and not just donors should be allowed to access the audit report, wrote, “The audit is of public interest, Femco should make it available to the public, Nigerian ought to know how the funds was spent not just donors.” @EABabalola wrote, “No offense to Femco, but how were they able to generate the emails of those who donated funds and crypto anonymously? Let Femco just put out the audit publicly and shun all these embarrassment and dragging.” On the other hand @Nun_river applauded the coalition, saying, “Femco has once again shown why Buhari’s government was scared of #EndSARS: young people were able to demonstrate an alternative vision of Nigeria. That collective mobilisation for change is possible, that transparent management of shared resources is possible.” “Grateful to Femco for their service, for its accountability, and for its grace under outsized scrutiny,” @DerinAdebayo stated.