To end medical negligence in Nigeria, culpable health professionals must be duly sanctioned after indictment, health experts have said. According to the experts, medical negligence has become a critical public health issue in the country and should, therefore, be decisively addressed. Speaking with PUNCH Healthwise, the health experts: Senior Nursing Officer, Abdulrafiu Adeniji and Principal Clinical Pharmacist, Dr. Dan Orunmwense, stressed the need for public health education on the right of patients and obligations of health care professionals. They were reacting to two recent cases of alleged medical negligence in the country, which resulted in the deaths of the patients. The two cases involved Peju Ugboma, a pastry chef who died after undergoing fibroid surgery; and Omolara Omoyajowo, who died after receiving treatment for peptic ulcer. While Ugboma reportedly died of complications after her surgery at the Premier Specialist Medical Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos; Omolara was said to have died of cardiac arrest after receiving treatment for peptic ulcer at the Beachland Specialist Hospital, Arepo, Ogun State. Doctors at the Beachland Hospital had referred Omolara to the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital, Ikeja, after treating her for the peptic ulcer but the tertiary hospital had declared her ‘Brought In Dead’ by the time she was taken there. While the Lagos State Government had directed the Health Facility Monitoring and Accreditation Agency to investigate the alleged case of medical negligence regarding Peju, health experts say the problem of medical negligence should be comprehensively addressed. According to Dr. Orunmwense, it has become necessary for all healthcare practitioners to improve on their attitude to work. The clinical pharmacist and former national chairman of the Association of Hospital and Administrative Pharmacists of Nigeria said poor attitude to work is a major reason for medical negligence. “Medical negligence keeps occurring because of poor work attitude and lack of disciplinary action. We need to stop the impunity. “The other common causes of medical negligence are inadequate training for personnel, lack of competence, as well as lack of requisite supervision. “To stop it disciplinary actions should be taken against culpable professionals,” he said. Orunmwense added that caregivers also need better training and indoctrination, improved communication skills, and commitment to ethical practice and discipline. While noting that there has been a lot of hype and misinformation about medical negligence on social media, Orunmwense called for public enlightenment on the rights of patients as well as those of the health professionals. He also noted that while the regulatory bodies for health professionals must do more in terms of discipline and reprimands of culpable caregivers, health facilities should also improve on supervision of their personnel to ensure better overall service delivery. To continue reading this story and more, click here Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com