Popular Nigerian entertainer, Denrele Edun, is joyous at the moment as he would be turning 40 in a few days’ time. While his 40th birthday approaches, Edun takes a trip down memory lane, about 20 years ago to be precise. Taking to his verified Instagram page, the entertainer recollects how five girls pounced on him on his 20th birthday and beat him severely; an incident he would never forget. READ ALSO: Masari faults Presidency, backs govs, says open grazing unIslamic Edun noted that their assailants were his cousins, who also assaulted his mother and younger sister. He wrote, “20 years ago! My 20th birthday. Less than 20 days to my 40th birthday, come June 13th. Gemini SZN taking over! This wonderful 20th birthday of mine fell on an Environmental Sanitation day and, as usual, we had to wake up at 5 a.m to start cleaning out the entire surroundings. “Since our family house was located at the corner piece of Faneye Junction in Ebute Metta, it meant cleaning out the entire stretch of ‘gutter’ that spiralled from the back of the house through to the next building. And that job fell on the shoulders of the only male in the house: ME! “In the process of cleaning out the gutters, I heard raised voices emanating from the house. ‘Witch! Bastard! Go back to your country, you poor foreigner with your children. Wretched Oyinbo!’ I already knew my female cousins were at war with my mother, but trusting my MFM Prayer Warrior of a Mum, she was one to never back down! “‘Not on my birthday. Please GOD! Can I even survive this day in peace and tranquility?’ I thought to myself. Next thing, my cousins waltzed out of the house still screaming expletives at my mum. One slapped my little sister on the face cos she was in her way and then they came up to me. Five girls in total.” According to Edun, his five female cousins began to taunt him, and the instant he spoke to them, they all pounced on him and flogged him blue-black. He said, “They started taunting me, especially insulting my Dad’s 1986 Honda Accord parked in the compound. ‘Kalo Kalo Car! Poor dirty Indian! Wretched idiot! Oyiboyi (that was the name they used to call my Mum)!’ “’You guys stop! Please! Abeg!’ As if on cue, they pulled up to my face to face in a semi-circle. Head on, they started screaming outside the house. ‘Stop what?’ Next thing, the five of them started flogging me. And I mean, with proper masquerade whips…. the ones with branches jutting out!” The TV host explained that since he could not physically assault women, he felt helpless, frustrated, and pained while they had a filled day flogging him. He continued, “I was angry. Frustrated. Pained and I felt like a coward at that point because I couldn’t fight back. I just stood there willingly as two of them began to push me around. When they had their fill, they all moved to the house saying they would extend the same treatment to my mother and sisters as we weren’t welcome in the family house. “That moment, I made up my mind; NOBODY was ever gonna kill my HAPPINESS again! I’m still a story waiting to be told!”(sic)