You welcomed triplets in 2019. How demanding has fatherhood been for you? Fatherhood has not been demanding on me at all. As a matter of fact, it has been one of my greatest joy and blessing. It is something I rehearsed, planned and prepared for. If one puts one’s trust in God, all things will be easy for one. During the waiting period, I had the opportunity to think deeply. A lot of thoughts enveloped my mind and one of them was how I would carry my baby. Funnily, I did not even know I would be having three babies at the time. Perhaps, the only thing I did not prepare for in this fatherhood journey was tending to three lovely children at the same time. In a past interview you said you waited for over 20 years before you had children. What were some of the lessons that you learnt during the waiting period? I learnt a lot of lessons during our waiting period. I learnt to grow a thick skin to what some people say. I learnt endurance, perseverance and tolerance. If anything at all, I learnt that money is not the solution to every problem. As a matter of fact, there are many problems that money cannot solve. Some couples would have opted for adoption. Why didn’t you consider that option? That idea never came to my mind because I had children all around me. The children of my siblings were always around me so the thought of going for adoption was never an option for me. Did you consider your waiting period to be a test from God? I think the almighty God is the only one that can answer this question. I cannot question or query Him because I know He had and has his plans for my life and He would always execute the plans at the appropriate time. Your story has given some couples hope and many want to know if you had your triplets through the In-Vitro Fertilisation method? Can you recognise an In-vitro fertilisation baby if you see one? All children are blessings from God irrespective of how they were conceived. Yes, it was through the IVF procedure but I do not like that tag of ‘IVF baby’. What’s your message of hope to awaiting couples? My message to awaiting couples is that they should keep hope alive. You mentioned that your wife was under a lot of pressure. Did you at anytime fear that your wife would leave you? Yes, my wife underwent a lot of pressure but I did not fear that she would leave me.  I never had that feeling. What me and my wife share is very special and the feelings we have for each other is so great for me to ever conceive that idea. How would you describe life in the limelight? To the glory of God, I have been coping with the ups and downs associated with being in the limelight. However, I have my boundaries. I learn from the mistakes of elders and I ensure I do to others what I want others to do to me. Would you have wished for a quieter lifestyle? God has a plan for me and He will only execute it at the appropriate time. Even with stardom, I still maintain a quiet lifestyle. I am not a flamboyant person. You will never see me celebrating the acquisition of any property. I love the quiet lifestyle I have adopted. Who is Yinka Ayefele? Yinka Ayefele has produced more than 25 records since he released his debut album on December 12, 1998, at Premier Hotel, Ibadan. I am a music producer, gospel artiste, radio presenter and the Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of Fresh FM with stations in Ibadan (Oyo State), Abeokuta (Ogun State) and Ado Ekiti (Ekiti State). With the help of God, I also own a hotel and a chain of business across the country. I have toured all the states in the United States of America with my band, ‘’The Merrymakers’. I have also performed in other countries such as Canada, England, Ireland and South Africa. I am a Member of the Order of the Niger as well. What were your childhood dreams? My childhood dream was to be a broadcaster and musician. Thankfully, those aspirations have become a reality today. What were some of the hurdles you crossed before you became popular? I do not see hurdles, rather I see them as tasks that prepared me for my present position. Everything that I came across while climbing the ladder was made to toughen me and prepare me for today. Did you ever think you would be this popular? No, I did not think that I would be popular. My life has been a testimony and I will forever be grateful and thankful for His mercies. There is too much to be thankful for. What’s your greatest wish? My greatest wish is to be back on my feet, if it pleases God. I believe so much in God. He has always answered my prayers at His appointed time. What’s the first thing you would do if you stand unaided? The first thing would be tears of joy streaming down my face. That would be the fulfilment of another dream. Do you have plans to run for an elective position? Yes, I’m a homo politicus (In public policy theory, an individual who is supposedly interested in and acts in the public good). We all have ambitions but let’s just wait and see what God will say to that. What was your greatest fear when your company was demolished? I did not nurse any fear. I had nothing to fear again when it had been demolished. Meanwhile, it was just the structure that was demolished, not my license. I have all documents approved by the state government. It was just an emotional mismanagement on the part of the government and that explains why it was rebuilt by the same government that demolished it. May the soul of Senator Abiola Ajimobi (former Oyo State governor) who demolished the structure rest in peace. Some of his aides misled him. What lessons did you learn from that incident? One of the valuable lessons I learnt from that incident was that one should only act on the truth and not based on what people tell one. Do you have any regrets? Interestingly, the only regret I have is that I don’t have any regrets. What are the most important lessons life has taught you? Life has taught me to be focused. I just had to believe in myself and put my trust in God. I think others should also learn from that. What are some of the principles that have guided you thus far? I am armed with many principles that have been very handy and helpful. I am always prepared for anything. What are your thoughts about the growing insecurity in Nigeria? All we want from the government is to create jobs that will keep the youths busy. What do you do for fun? I love to play with my children. What’s your favourite meal? My favourite meal is pounded yam with mixed okra soup (Ila alasepo). How do you and your wife spend couple time? I and my wife sometimes travel abroad if I have the time. But now that the triplets are here, we share the time with them. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com