AT least, 15 persons were on Monday confirmed dead in two separate attacks carried out by gunmen in Jos North and  Riyom Local Government Areas of Plateau State. The attacks came a few days after the acting Inspector-General of Police, Usman Baba alerted the people that intelligence report revealed that terrorists were planning to attack Abuja and Jos, the state capital In Jos North LGA, the gunmen killed seven persons in Dong village while eight persons were murdered in Kwi community in Riyom LGA. Among those killed in Kwi attack was an 18 years pregnant mother identified as Jessica Monday. A villager, Moses Bitrus, who confirmed Jessica’s death said others killed alongside with her were children and family members, including Sam Bulus, 21; Ezekiel Dung, 30; Pam Samuel, 20; Pam Esther, 5; Leah Pam, 7; Noroh Gyang, 19; and Garose Dung, 81. Bitrus said, “It was on Sunday between 11pm and 12 am when the gunmen suspected to be herdsmen  attacked the people while they were sleeping.” The spokesman for the state Police Command, Ubah Ogaba, confirmed the killing of seven persons in Jos North LGA in a statement on Monday. The names of the victims were given as Chiyena Oboche (55), Victoria Mathew (45), Praise Mathew (2), Danladi Mathew (25), Gospel and Istifanus, among others while Divine Oboche sustained gunshot wounds. The PPRO said, “On Sunday, May 23, 2021, around  2000hrs, the command received a distress call that some yet-to-be-identified gunmen came out from a nearby bush, invaded Dong Village, Jos South LGA, and killed seven persons. Earlier, a villager, Sunday Dung, confirmed the killings in Kwi village, saying, “I can tell you that at least, seven persons were killed by gunmen, who attacked Kwi last night (Sunday). We are in pains right now.” Lalong, senator condemn killings Meanwhile, Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State and the Senator representing the Northern zone, Istifanus Gyang, have condemned the fresh killings by gunmen in the state Condemning the attacks in a statement on Monday by the state Commissioner for Information, Dan Manjang, the governor said he was deeply saddened by the reoccurrence of violence in parts of Dong Kasa in the Jos North LGA and Kwi in Riyom on Sunday night. He described the act as barbaric, callous and a desperate attempt to rupture the peace and security of the State. Similarly, Senator Gyang expressed worry over the killings coming especially shortly after the IGP issued a security alert on likely terror attacks on Jos and the FCT. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com