What is pneumonia? Pneumonia is a form of acute respiratory infection that affects the lungs. The lungs are made up of small sacs called alveoli, which fill with air when a healthy person breathes. What happens when an individual has pneumonia? When an individual has pneumonia, the alveoli are filled with pus and fluid, which makes breathing painful and limits oxygen intake. Is it contagious? Certain types of pneumonia are contagious (they spread from person to person). Pneumonia caused by bacteria or viruses can be contagious when the disease-carrying organisms are inhaled into the lungs. However, not everyone who is exposed to the germs that cause pneumonia will develop it. Pneumonia caused by fungi is not contagious. The fungi are in the soil. They can become airborne and inhaled, but cannot be spread from person to person. The germs that cause pneumonia are usually inhaled. Are there other things one should know about the causes? Many germs can cause pneumonia. The most common are bacteria and viruses in the air we breathe. The body usually prevents these germs from infecting the lungs. But sometimes these germs can overpower the immune system, even if one’s health is generally good. The most common cause of bacterial pneumonia is streptococcus pneumoniae. This type of pneumonia can occur on its own or after a cold or flu. It may affect one part (lobe) of the lung, a condition called lobar pneumonia. Some of the viruses that cause cold and the flu can cause pneumonia. Viruses are the most common cause of pneumonia in children younger than five years. Viral pneumonia is usually mild. But in some cases, it can become very serious. Coronavirus (COVID-19) may cause pneumonia, which can become severe. This type of pneumonia is most common in people with chronic health problems or weakened immune systems and in people who have inhaled large doses of the organisms. What are the symptoms of pneumonia? The signs and symptoms of pneumonia vary from mild to severe, depending on factors such as the type of germ causing the infection,  as well as the age and overall health of the patient. Mild signs and symptoms often are similar to those of a flu, but may last longer. These may include chest pain, cough, confusion or changes in mental awareness, fatigue, fever, sweating and chills. Others may include nausea, vomiting or diarrhoae. Are there different types of pneumonia? There are different types of pneumonia. There is community-acquired pneumonia which is the most common type of pneumonia. It occurs outside of hospitals or other health care facilities. It may be caused by bacteria, viruses and fungi. Some people can develop pneumonia during a hospital stay for another illness. This is called hospital-acquired pneumonia. This can be serious because the bacteria causing it may be more resistant to antibiotics and because the people who get it are already sick. People who are on breathing machines (ventilators), often used in intensive care units, are at higher risk of this type of pneumonia. There is also health care-acquired pneumonia, which is a bacterial infection that occurs in people who live in long-term care facilities or who receive care in outpatient clinics, including kidney dialysis centres. Like hospital-acquired pneumonia, health care-acquired pneumonia can be caused by bacteria that are more resistant to antibiotics. Aspiration pneumonia is another type that occurs when food, or drink, or vomitus or saliva is inhaled into the lungs. Aspiration is more likely if something disturbs the normal gag reflex, such as a brain injury or swallowing problem, or excessive use of alcohol or drugs. What are the risk factors for pneumonia? Pneumonia can affect anyone. The two age groups at highest risk are children who are two years old or younger and people who are age 65 years or older. Other risk factors include prolonged hospitalisation, chronic diseases, like asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary airway disease, heart diseases, smoking and weakened or suppressed immune systems. Is pneumonia a life-threatening infection? Pneumonia ranges from a mild to serious or life-threatening infection and can sometimes lead to death. According to Centres for Disease Control and Prevention, pneumonia is the leading cause of death worldwide for children under five years of age. Those at greatest risk have weaker immune system or a condition or lifestyle factors that affects their lungs. These include adults from 65 years, hospitalised patients, particularly those on ventilators, individuals with chronic diseases, people with a weakened immune system due to chemotherapy, or an organ transplant and those who smoke cigarettes. When does a person suspected to have pneumonia require hospitalisation? Patients with severe pneumonia need to stay in the hospital for treatment. Indications for severe disease include age above 65 years, confusion, kidney function decline, systolic blood pressure below 90mmHg or diastolic blood pressure of 60 mmHg or, temperature below normal and heart rate below 50 or above 100 in a minute. Hospital treatments may include placement on oxygen, fluids, antibiotics and other medicines, given through injections, breathing treatments, rapid breathing of 30 breaths or more in a minute and exercises to help loosen mucus. It may take six to eight weeks to return to a normal level of well-being for hospitalised patients with pneumonia. What are the other complications of the infection? Most people with pneumonia respond well to treatment, but pneumonia can be very serious and even deadly. Complications of pneumonia are more common in young children, the elderly and those with pre-existing health conditions. Some of the complications include Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome, which is a severe form of respiratory failure, lung abscesses, which are pockets of pus that form inside or around the lung and sepsis, which may lead to organ failure. Is pneumonia curable? A variety of infectious agents cause pneumonia. With proper recognition and treatment, many cases of pneumonia can be cleared without complications. For bacterial infections, failure to complete the required dosage of the antibiotics can prevent adequate clearance of the bacteria. What are the different ways of treating pneumonia? Treatment will depend on the type of pneumonia, how severe it is and the general health of the patient. This involves curing the infection and preventing complications. People who have community-acquired pneumonia can be treated at home with medications. Although most symptoms improve in a few days or weeks, the feeling of tiredness can persist for a month or more. Oral antibiotics can treat most cases of bacterial pneumonia. Antibiotic medications don’t work on viruses, so anti-virals may be prescribed for viral pneumonia. However, many cases of viral pneumonia clear on their own with at-home care. Anti-fungal medications are used to fight fungal pneumonia. Cough syrup may be recommended to calm the cough. Medications to relieve the pain and fever may also be prescribed. The treatment for severe pneumonia will include hospitalisation. This is important to keep track of the heart rate, temperature and breathing of the patient. Hospital treatment may include intravenous antibiotics, respiratory therapy which involves delivering specific medications directly into the lungs or breathing exercises to maximise oxygenation. There may also be need for oxygen therapy to maintain oxygen levels in the bloodstream, which is usually received through a nasal tube, face mask, or ventilator, depending on severity. Is surgery an option for pneumonia? Pneumonia may cause fluid to build up in the thin space between layers of tissue that line the lungs and chest cavity (pleura). If the fluid becomes infected, there may be a need to have it drained through a chest tube or removed with surgery. What measures can be taken to help a patient recover from the infection? Once treatment with antibiotics is commenced, symptoms should begin to improve. Recovery time varies a lot from person to person and depends on the general health, age and how severe the pneumonia is. If the symptoms don’t improve in 48 hours, or if they get any worse, a reassessment will be needed. Recovery time varies from patient to patient, but there are things to expect with treatment. These include reduction of fever, less cough, and improved breathing. Recovery is usually gradual. Eating well and carrying out some exercises, including deep breathing exercises, help to shorten the recovery time. There will be a need for plenty of rest at the initial stage. However, it is important to be more active with improved health and these activities can be increased with more energy. Exercising the lungs may also help. This can be done by taking long slow deep breaths or blowing through a straw into a glass of water. Deep breathing is also good for clearing the mucus from the lungs. Deep breathing can be done five to 10 times and then cough or huff strongly a couple of times to move the mucus. Is there anything like walking pneumonia? Walking pneumonia is how some people describe a mild case of pneumonia. It is sometimes called “atypical pneumonia” because it’s not like more serious cases. Walking pneumonia is usually due to bacteria called mycoplasma pneumoniae. It is most common in children, military recruits, and adults younger than 40. Also, people who live and work in crowded places such as schools, dorms, military barracks, and nursing homes are more likely to come into contact with it. It spreads through sneezing or coughing, but spreads slowly. Walking pneumonia’s symptoms are much milder than typical pneumonias. While pneumonia causes a high fever and a cough that produces mucus, walking pneumonia involves a very low fever and a dry cough. Are there foods, drinks or habits people suffering from pneumonia should avoid? Foods containing saccharine should be avoided. Saccharine is a sulfonamide compound which can cause allergic reactions in people that cannot tolerate sulfa drugs. This may cause worsening of breathing difficulties. Excessive salt should be avoided. Salt can make people retain water, and excessive water can cause breathing problems. Frozen foods should be avoided. Most meats such as ham, hotdogs and bacon contain additives called nitrites. Nitrites generate oxidative-nitrative stress and this has been shown to damage the alveoli thereby leading to difficulties with breathing. Dairy products should be consumed with caution as this can worsen symptoms. It contains casomorphin, a breakdown product of milk which is known to increase mucus production. Fried foods should also be avoided. This can cause weight gain which increases pressure on the lungs. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com