FC Ifeanyi Ubah say they failed to honour their match-day 20 Nigeria Professional Football League fixture against MFM FC because the match should have been played in Nnewi and not Enugu. Match officials awarded MFM the maximum points as the hosts failed to show up for the encounter, which was scheduled for the Nnamdi Azikiwe Stadium in Enugu by 2pm. The Lagos-based team in a tweet confirmed the result. “MFM FC have been awarded three points and three goals by match officials after FC IfeanyiUbah failed to turn up for matchday 20 fixture game against MFM FC scheduled to kick off by 2:00pm in Enugu. The walkover formalities were performed by centre referee Nura Abdullahi in the presence of Milleye Abubakar, the Match Commissioner and Match Assessor, Peter Edibe.” The League Management Company on March 19 banished FC Ifeanyi Ubah to Enugu indefinitely for their home games “until a satisfactory revised stadium security plan is provided and approved.” Media officer of IfeanyiUbah, Iyke Nwokedi, in an interview with The PUNCH, said the club had served the LMC’s ban and had also worked on the security apparatus at their Nnewi stadium. He added that they also wrote to the league body for confirmation, but were shocked when they received a letter informing them to proceed for the game in Enugu. “The fact is that we didn’t honour the game, the match was supposed to be played in Nnewi and not Enugu,” Nwokedi told The PUNCH. “Having served out the ban and worked on our security, and architecture for our stadium to host matches, we had written to the LMC. So, we were surprised that there was a message that we will now have to play in Enugu and that the ban was a double header, so we didn’t honour the game.” Efforts to reach the Chief Operating Officer of the LMC, Salihu Abubakar, proved abortive as he didn’t pick our correspondent’s call. He also did not respond to text messages sent to his line as at the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com