The end of the Nigeria/Biafra civil war (1967-1970) has, sadly, not brought an end to agitations by the component units of the Nigerian federation for one form of self-actualisation or another. After a succession of brutal military dictatorship which began in 1966 with only a four-year break between 1979 and 1983, Nigerians decided they’ve had enough of such autocratic rules. The current political dispensation which started with President Olusegun Obasanjo in 1999 has had its fair share of agitations which in some instances resulted in violent upheavals. President Goodluck Jonathan and his handlers at times thought it wise to provide an atmosphere for Nigerians to hold another dialogue to proffer workable suggestions on how to move the nation forward. After months of speculations, the President Goodluck Jonathan-led administration convened the 2014 National Conference. Several Nigerian leaders especially leading figures in the opposition All Progressives Congress had questioned the timing, cost, participants, as well as the motive behind the conference. As a political entity, the APC said it would not take part in the process. It, however, noted that interested party members were free to attend in their personal capacities if they so desired. Despite these misgivings, the conference took off on March 17, with respected Jurist, Justice Idris Kutigi (retd.), as its chairman. The conference, which eventually cost roughly N10bn of taxpayers’ money, drew 494 Nigerians from all walks of life. Nigerians of divergent backgrounds met for over four and a half months to produce a report which supporters argue provided the map required to take Nigeria out of the woods when implemented. In the end, the conference made over 600 recommendations for the improvement of the political, economic and social structures with suggestions about steps to be taken to improve the security of lives and property of Nigerians. It recommended, among other things, a ban on state funding of pilgrimages and religious matters, a two-tier police system, independent candidacy and the devolution of more powers and revenues to states. Other recommendations include: the creation of 18 new states up from the current 36. This, the panel argued, would reduce the feeling of marginalisation which more often than not leads to violent agitations. On the thorny issue of resource control/derivation principle/fiscal federalism, it noted that pegging a percentage increase for the derivation principle, and setting up Special Intervention Funds to deal with the issues of reconstruction and rehabilitation of areas destroyed by insurgency, internal conflicts as well as solid minerals development, require some technical details and consideration. The conference recommended the setting up of a Technical Committee to work out modalities on how best to approach the issue and advise the government accordingly. It recommended that the sharing of the funds paid into the Federation Account among the three tiers of government should be done in the following order: Federal Government – 42.5 per cent, state governments – 35 per cent and local governments 22.5 per cent. The conference equally recommended that the percentage given to population and equality of states in the existing sharing formula should be reduced. It also recommended an increase in the allocation for the Social Development sector to encourage accelerated development of all parts of the country. On the administration of land as contained in the Land Tenure Act, the conference recommended that the Act should remain part of the Constitution but should be amended to take care of local concerns. After a very lengthy debate on the form of government, the conference recommended the Modified Presidential System, a home-grown system which it said would effectively combine the presidential and parliamentary systems. Under this system, the president shall pick the vice president from the legislature. It also recommended that the President should select not more than 18 ministers from the six geo-political zones and not more than 30 per cent of his ministers from outside the legislature. Participants at the conference equally recommended that to reduce the cost of governance, government at all levels should reduce the number of political appointees and use more of staff members drawn from the civil service where occasion demands. To reduce the cost of running the legislature, the conference report while voting in support of the retention of a Bi-cameral legislature, said all elected members should serve on a part-time basis just as it recommended that presidential power should rotate between the North and the South and among the six geo-political zones; while the governorship will rotate among the three senatorial districts in a state. A Kano State delegate to the conference and elder statesman, Alhaji Tanko Yakasai, who participated as a delegate from Kano State, said, “Generals Olusegun Obasanjo, Ibrahim Babangida, Sani Abacha all convened conferences. The one organised by President Goodluck Jonathan was the fourth. We have an array of recommendations which if implemented will take us out of the mess we are currently in especially in the area of security. “We’ve had enough conferences; we have enough reports of conferences held in the past. What we need now is a committee to look into all these recommendations and pick the ones we consider important and relevant; we can then submit them to the National Assembly committee which has started the process of amending the constitution. What the 2014 conference did was to recommend areas requiring legislative action to make the relevant laws to effect the changes we require. There are several recommendations that if implemented will definitely make our country better.” Also, after studying the mood of Nigerians in the light of the deteriorating security situation in the twilight of the Jonathan years, the APC put together a manifesto with which it campaigned vigorously for 2015 presidential elections. In the document, the party aligned itself with the popular clamour for restructuring. The concept at the time included a decentralised police structure and a fiscal regime that recommends more resources to the states. On assumption of power in 2015, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), and the ruling party appeared to have little interest in the subject of restructuring. This, however, changed when the party almost on the eve of the 2019 general elections, set up the Governor Nasir El-Rufai-led Committee on True Federalism. Although it would not admit it, the panel agreed in principle with some recommendations contained in the 2014 conference especially in the area of devolution of powers to states and an upward review of the 13 per cent derivation. The El-Rufai committee recommended among other things, “That (the) Federal Government should urgently direct the Revenue Mobilisation, Allocation and Fiscal Commission, to among others fashion out a new revenue allocation formula in consonance with the provision of the 1999 Constitution as amended, which envisages a periodic review of the formula. “This should take into account items devolved from federal to state governments. Furthermore, since section 162 (2) of the Constitution already provides for the principle of derivation of not less than 13 per cent, there is clearly room for its upward review.” On the issue of devolution of powers, the APC report read in part, “The Committee recommends that the party puts its political weight behind the overwhelming popular demand for devolution (of power) to states by the federal government.” The Director-General of the Progressives Governors Forum, Dr Salihu Lukman, while urging the APC and the Buhari regime to seize the moment especially in the area of security, said, “There has to be a way out of this mess. Our political leaders and our party need to assert their authority in mobilising alternative responses, which should inspire Nigerians to rise above the current high wave of ethnic and religious hatred in the country that is weakening our capacity to arrest and prevent criminal activities. “May be the challenge we have today present a golden opportunity for the APC to be able to initiate processes of implementing the recommendations contained in the report of the APC Committee on True Federalism.” Speaking in a similar vein, an Enugu State chieftain of the APC, Osita Okechukwu, said contrary to speculations in some quarters, President Buhari was not opposed to the implementation of aspects of the 2014 conference report especially areas which would improve transparency in government business. He told Sunday PUNCH, “If you look at it, President Buhari has even started an incremental implementation of part of the recommendations of the 2014 national conference report. Look at the aspect dealing with financial autonomy at the state level. He signed Executive Order 10, in which he effectively handed Local Government Areas and State Judiciaries financial autonomy. “All Mr President is saying is that, while we are talking about restructuring at the federal level, it should begin from the states. “As we stand today, democracy is being impeded at the state level. There is no state of the federation that conducts free and fair local government elections. “The issue of allowing the state judiciary to benefit from the first line charge was put on the table during the constitution amendment; it was rejected, only 10 out of the 36 states of the federation voted in favour. The issue of the first-line charge for the judiciary and the legislature was approved under Section 113 of the constitution in 2018 in the eight National Assembly as part of the alterations to the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended); but none of the states approved. The President signed Executive Order 10 to give life to that amendment but our governors jointly have taken the matter to the Supreme Court. “So, Mr President is saying to his own understanding and knowledge and the growth of our democracy, what is obtainable today in that the Judiciary at the national level is independent, the National Assembly is robust but the situation is not so at the state level where governors act like emperors.” The National Publicity Secretary of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party, Kola Ologbondiyan, however, disagreed. He said, “We all know that most of the recommendations contained in the 2014 National Conference Report have the potential of improving our nation. But you see, for this APC regime, they view everything done by the PDP to improve this country in the past with suspicion. It should not be so.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com