THE Kaduna State Police Command and the Defence Headquarters outfit, Operation Safe Haven, have reported to the Kaduna State Government the killing of three citizens on Saturday night. A statement by the state Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr. Samuel Aruwan, on Sunday, said assailants stormed the home of Sgt. Christopher Madaki (retd.), a scribe to a Ward Head at Golkofa, Jema’a Local Government Area of the state and shot him, his wife, Mary; as well as his son’s wife, Alice. READ ALSO: Don’t take COVID-19 vaccination, Oyedepo tells Winners worshippers According to the Commissioner, the three were later confirmed dead, while his son, Clement Madaki, survived with injuries inflicted on him by the assailants. The Commissioner said, “Security agencies have equally made some arrests of notorious bandits across the state and citizens will be briefed as soon as operatives conclude preliminary investigations.” He also said a breakdown of law and order was averted in Kachia town in Kachia LGA, following the killing of one Hamidu Nura by one Abba Muhammad. He said the genesis of the fisticuffs between the two was being investigated by security agencies, adding, however, that the fight led to Abba Muhammad stabbing Hamidu Nura to death. Following the development, Aruwan said some irate citizens then mobilised and captured Abba Muhammad, attacking him with knives, clubs and other dangerous weapons, and eventually killing him in a jungle justice approach. Meanwhile, in another development, troops of Operation Safe Haven received a report of a missing person, Ngode Patrick Kambai, in Mabuhu village, Zonzon district, Zangon Kataf LGA. Kambai, a commercial motorcycle rider, was reported by his father to have been missing since around 8 am on Thursday when he left home and did not return. Bandits invade Katsina community, kill 11 in fresh attacks Meanwhile, a group of bandits on Saturday afternoon killed 11 persons at Tsatstkiya in the Safana Local Government Area of Katsina State. The bandits invaded the community in the afternoon, injuring three other persons in the process. Residents said the bandits were on a reprisal to avenge the recent killing of one of their informants in the community. The informant was said to have been killed four days ago in a nearby community called Hakon Kartakawa. A resident said, “The bandits stormed Tsatstkiya and killed people, sending messages to people in the community that they were unhappy over the killing of one of their informants at Hakon Kartakawa.” The spokesman for the Katsina Police Command, Gambo Isah, confirmed the incident but did not give details. Meanwhile, the 75-year-old woman, Auta Atti, abducted at Kukar Babangida in the Jibia Local Government Area of the state early Tuesday morning, was still in bandits’ den as of Saturday. A community leader in the council, Gide Dahiru, who confirmed the incident, said the woman; a mother of a chief in the Niger Republic, Sarkin Sandamu, was kidnapped from her residence at Kukar Babangida. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com