The Lagos-Ogun Joint Development Commission will have two offices in both states, The PUNCH has learnt. Recall that Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu of Lagos his Ogun State counterpart, Dapo Abiodun, on Monday signed a Memorandum of Understanding in Abeokuta, capital of Ogun State, to establish the commission to foster development in both states. Both governors agreed that embracing a collaborative approach was the best way to promote devloment, adding that a bill would be sent to the Assemblies of both states for legal backing. However, the Lagos State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotoso, in an interview with one of our correspondents on Wednesday said the initiative would have two office in both states. He added that a committee made up of men and women from both states would soon be set up. He said, “The two states have been working together for a long time. A committee will soon be put in place to supervise the take off of the commission: And there will be offices in both states.” Omotoso’s statement was backed by the Chief Press Secretary to the Ogun State Governor, Kunle Somorin, who added on Thursday that the state office would be in Abeokuta. Somorin, spoke with another correspondent in Abeokuta, adding that activities had started in the joint commission. He added, “The two states would come to an agreement on the choice of the commission chairman. They may have to mutually agree on rotational arrangement. “The office will be in Lagos and Abeokuta. Abeokuta is the capital of Ogun.” Speaking on when the bill on the commission will be presented to the state Houses of Assembly, Somorin said the presentation of the bill had been delayed, adding, “the Judicial Staff Union of Nigeria is on strike.” Omotoso also said Lagos State had perfected the presentation of the bill to the lawmakers in the state, which would be “soon.” On areas the commission would focus on, both Omotoso and Somorin said they included infrastructure development, agriculture and security, among others. Omotoso said, “Very soon, the government of Lagos state will be opening the Imota Rice Mill. This mill is going to need paddies for it to be able to process and give us rice. Ogun State has a comparative advantage in the production of rice. So we will now find a market for their paddies in Lagos State. “On security; you don’t expect people to commit offence in Lagos and then run to Ogun State; or people who commit an offence in Ogun to run Lagos and think that they have found safety. The two states are going to be collaborating in the area of security. “There are tax matters. People live in Ogun State and work in Lagos or work in Ogun and live in Lagos State; so they pay their taxes and the two states have to sort out such matter.” Somorin also said the two states would collaborate in “environmental and physical planning activities, including emergency and disaster management inland waterways management, traffic management, urban renewal and slum upgrading.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com