THE member representing Bauchi Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Yakubu Abdullahi, has accused the Bauchi State Governor, Bala Mohammed, of orchestrating his suspension as traditional title holder. Recall, the Bauchi Emirate Council, announced Abdullahi’s indefinite suspension from the position for allegedly “disrespecting” the Emir and the Governor. Abdullahi, who holds the title of Wakilin Birnin Bauchi, was elected a member of the National Assembly representing Bauchi Federal Constituency, under the Peoples Redemption Party before he ditched the party for the All Progressives Congress three months ago. In a letter written in Hausa and signed by Nasiru Maidala, which was addressed to the federal lawmaker, the Bauchi Emirate Council, said, a meeting presided by the Emir (Rilwan Adamu), held on Sunday, found the law maker guilty of the disrespecting the Emir, members of his council as well as the governor with his actions. The council accused the lawmaker of showing disrespect to the Emir by wearing the Alkyabba and using a Kandiri (Royal Gown and traditional staff) to pay the traditional homage to the Governor at Government House. The letter said because of his disrespect for constituted authority, ‘…the Council will not condone such disrespect and because of that, you are hereby suspended from being the Wakilin Birni of Bauchi, indefinitely.” In response, Abdullahi, in an interview with The PUNCH, said the Emirate Council was empowered by law to suspend him. He, however, explained that since there were allegations against him, he deserved to be given an opportunity to defend himself in line with the laws of natural justice. “He (Mohammed) is behind my suspension, because in the suspension letter they wrote to me, they said I disrespected the Emir and I didn’t come to greet the governor that day. But I was there, I went and greeted him personally, there are pictures that trended on social media to proof that I was there. “The governor asked me to join his political party, but I refused because I have every right to join any party that I so wish to join. “So, I chose APC over my former party, the PRP and I told him that I supported him when I was in PRP, if there is a good understanding between him and me, wherever I am, I can give him that support.” Reacting to the allegation, the Special Adviser to the Governor on Media, Mukhtar Gidado, dismissed them as baseless. He said, “The reason for his suspension has been clearly stated in the letter of the Emirate Council for disrespect to the Emir and the Emirate Council as well as the traditional institution. “Why did he not disclose the issue of the governor asking him to join the PDP until now. He has the right to join any political party and nobody would victimize him because of his choice of party. The governor has nothing to do with his suspension and he should go and face the Emirate Council.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com