The Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Muhammad Bello, has directed that Eid prayers would not hold at the National Eid prayer ground located along the Umaru Yar’adua Expressway, Abuja during this year’s Eid-il-Fitri. He said the decision was based on presentations made by officials of the Health and Human Services Secretariat of the Federal Capital Territory Administration and the implementation guidelines for Phased Restriction of Movement issued by the Presidential Steering Committee on COVID-19 on Monday. The minister said this during a meeting he had with a delegation of the FCT League of Imams Initiative led by its Chairman, Imam Tajudeen Adigun. The minister’s Chief Press Secretary, Anthony Ogunleye, disclosed this in a statement on Tuesday. He urged worshippers to hold Eid prayers outdoors within the premises of their neighbourhood Juma’at mosques. The statement titled ‘Eid prayers to hold only in Juma’at mosque premises’ read in part, “Having gone through a first wave of the pandemic and a second wave that caused more fatalities and had increased number of positives, it was imperative to prevent a possible third wave as is being witnessed in some countries across the world. “Consequently, based on presentations made by officials of the Health and Human Services Secretariat of the FCTA and the Implementation Guidelines for Phased Restriction of Movement issued by the Presidential Steering Committee on COVID-19 on Monday, May 10, 2021, the following guidelines are hereby issued: “There will be no Eid prayers at the National Eid prayer ground along the Umaru Musa Yar’adua Expressway (Airport Road). “All worshippers are enjoined to hold Eid prayers outdoors within the premises of their neighborhood Juma’at mosques. “Indoor worshippers are to be limited to less than 50% of installed capacity. “Religious authorities are advised to regulate the flow of people entering and exiting places of worship. “All non-pharmaceutical intervention protocols of facial coverings, physical distancing and hand washing are to be observed. “All other Eid celebrations and activities should be confined to homes as all public parks, recreation and entertainment centres are to be closed.” The Chairman of the FCT League of Imams Initiative, Adigun, assured the minister that Muslims in the FCT would abide by the directives. He said, “In Islam, you listen to experts, those who are specialists and those who have actually discussed with us are experts in the field of medical sciences. In Islam, you also abide with the commands of leadership.”