The efforts by the private sector Coalition Against Covid-19 led to the provision of N25bn relief materials to affected households, the Central Bank Governor, Godwin Emefiele, has said. He stated this at the launch of the documentary of the film called ‘Unmasked’ in Lagos on Friday. Emefiele who was represented by the acting Director, Corporate Communications of CBN, Osita Nwamsobi, also said the coalition set up 39 isolation centers across the country. The launch was attended by dignitaries from different sectors. He said, “In this regard we disbursed over N83.9bn in loans to pharmaceutical companies and healthcare practitioners, which is supporting 26 pharmaceutical and 56 medical projects across the country. “We were also able to mobilise key stakeholders in the Nigerian economy through the CACOVID alliance, which led to the provision of over N25bn in relief materials to affected households, and the set-up of 39 isolation centers across the country. “These measures helped to expand and strengthen the capacity of our healthcare institutions to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic.” The CBN governor, who said he was delighted to participate in the launch of the documentary film, said the launch followed an extensive work that had been undertaken by the producers of the film who were Ms Kadaria Ahmed and Mr Femi Odugbami. “I would like to commend the producers for focusing on a very vital aspect that is required for the progress of any society, which is the development of a robust healthcare infrastructure,” he said. He emphasised the important linkage between healthcare and economic growth, and some of the steps to consider in order to ensure a robust healthcare infrastructure that was accessible to majority of Nigerians. Emefiele noted that the bank initiated the Healthcare Sector Research and Development Intervention Grant Scheme, to aid research on solutions that could address diseases such as COVID-19, and other communicable/non-communicable diseases. So far, he said, five major healthcare related research projects were being financed under this initiative. He said, “While these interventions have helped to improve our capacity to respond to the crisis, we cannot afford to rest on our oars as more work needs to be done to build a more sustainable healthcare infrastructure in our country. “This work will require the collaborative efforts of both public and private sector stakeholders.” Improving access to healthcare for all Nigerians, he said, was an area to address. Building a robust healthcare infrastructure was also vital from a security perspective, as some nations had imposed restrictions on the exports of vital medical drugs as well as the use of drug patents that could aid in containing the spread of the pandemic, he said. He also said that expanding the insurance net to capture the pool of Nigerians not covered by existing health insurance schemes, could help to reduce the high out of pocket expenses on healthcare services by Nigerians. Making his remarks, Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, said, “What unmasked has done for us is to challenge the status quo.” While saying there was need to change the structure of government and reduce cost, he said that achieving the desired change was about everyone.