It appears the APC in Rivers State has yet to put itself together. What is the situation now? APC is very healthy in Rivers State and healthy in Nigeria. You can see for yourself that everywhere is bubbling. Our activities are galvanised in all the local government areas. You can follow the events that have been happening all around the local government areas. We are on course. We are preparing very well and we are going to contest the 2023 elections. We will win the governorship election of Rivers State in 2023. We will win the House of Assembly. We will win the National Assembly elections and also win the presidential election. That means we will retain the presidency. If the APC wins the Rivers State governorship election in 2023, what will the party do differently? His Excellency, Governor Nyesom Wike, is not doing anything. So, what do you want to compare? Are you saying what we will do differently from where the former governor, Rotimi Amaechi, left it off? We will improve on all the things that Amaechi had done while he was in the government. We will go back to the farms, the agricultural policy of the governor at that time. We will revamp, we will dust it off because it has been confined to the dustbin by the governor. We will dust it off, revamp the system and go back to some of those lofty programmes in agriculture. We will go back to the then governor’s policy of getting development to all parts of the state. That means infrastructural development in all the nooks and crannies of the state, not just ones limited to two local governments of Obio/Akpor and Port Harcourt. We will touch everywhere as he (Amaechi) did then in, all the other local government areas in the state. We will go back to employment. You could see that the employment record of the former governor was very high. Teachers alone that were employed by the Amaechi administration were about 13,000 while doctors were employed here and everywhere. You know the cottage hospitals and some of those hospital facilities and health facilities across the LGAs were built. They were installed and then doctors were employed. Doctors were also promoted, trained and they manned all of those establishments. We will go back to those very lofty policies and developmental strides of Amaechi. We will ensure too that his programmes for human capital development, such as scholarships and all of that for our students both foreign and local, we will deal with, we will handle and all of that and revamp them and ensure that we even improve on them so that more Rivers people will be able to gain meaningfully from it and so much more. But the state government said it had commissioned and inaugurated some projects… The governor of Rivers State today is doing absolutely nothing. He has abandoned all of those things. You can see the school infrastructures, the education. You can see those infrastructures overgrown with weeds and all of that. We can’t allow that to happen. State funds were used to build all of those things and somebody just came on board and because he didn’t like the face of the person who did it, he abandoned them. The starting point is for us to revamp and rehabilitate all of those things. How then would you rate the performance of the present administration in the state? For me, it is below par, completely below par. It is less than 25 per cent. When you say 25 per cent, isn’t that a blanket assessment? I say it is 25 per cent. Ask me what is happening in the agricultural sector. Tell me what is happening in health sector. Tell me what is happening in the educational sector. Tell me about human capital development, employment development. Nothing; absolutely nothing. All you have is building bridges all over the place, expansion, bridges at humungous cost that is all. Is that the performance you are telling me about? I am just being generous by giving him 25 per cent, I can tell you. Tell me the long term policy for the state. They are all short things he is doing to get ovation. You paint one place and then you get ovation for it. Go and see the massive work the Federal Government is doing in Kono Road lining Bonny. Go and see the work ongoing there and the governor will tell you the Federal Government has not done anything here. Go and see the massive work there and check the cost of it, compared to these things he is doing just for ovation. Despite the recent Supreme Court judgement which recognised you as the authentic APC chairman in Rivers State, there are still pockets of litigations here and there. Doesn’t that show that there is still some division within the party fold? Which pockets? Refer me to specifics please. There are Mr Emma Deeyah and four others who are in the Appeal Court… What is the substance of those matters in view of the decision of the Appeal Court? Every matter ends at the Supreme Court, that is if the parties want to get to the final. The ultimate decision in those matters, will end in the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court has made very clear pronouncements in those three judgements or so they delivered on March 5. They are very clear, very weighty, very in-depth and very far-reaching, so that any sensible person would just stop litigating when it comes to internal affairs and leadership of the party. So, where will they end? They have money to spend because somebody is giving them free money and there must be justification for it. That is all. Why did the APC boycott the April 17 local government elections in Rivers State? First, the ‘umpire’ is not independent. It is peopled and constituted by card-carrying members of the Peoples Democratic Party. Secondly, it was used as compensation for a judge for putting the APC down with his judgements. I have told you over and over that that is what it is and you can see the way the judge has been acting since assuming the headship of that body (the Rivers State Independent Electoral Commission). He is the one trying to foist on the party candidates to contest elections when the party backed by the Court of Appeal and Supreme Court leadership has expressly written to RSIEC to say that the APC is opting out. The RSIEC chairman admitted receiving APC’s withdrawal letter from the election, but said the logo of the APC would still be on the ballot because it had been printed. What is your reaction to that? In this country, we have seen where ballot papers have been reprinted because of certain situations and circumstances. Months apart, we wrote and told them we were not participating in the local government election. Any serious body, authority that is not peopled by persons of mischievous intentions would have been able to reprint the ballots and all of that, if as of that time, they had even printed. But like I told you, there is a reason for wanting APC’s logo to be on the ballot. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com