Iniobong Umoren knew life was not a bed of roses and was determined to confront it headlong, particularly having become an orphan when she was in secondary school. Breaking through the glass ceiling to earn a degree in Philosophy from the University of Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, Umoren was upbeat she was heading for the Promised Land. Her unflinching drive to excel took her to Twitter on Tuesday, April 27 in search of a job. Hours later, she felt fortunate to have got an offer on the social networking platform and set out excitedly for an interview somewhere on Oron Road, Uyo, two days after. She had no inkling she was being stalked by a fake 20-year-old employer, Uduak Akpan, who reportedly raped, killed and buried her on arrival at the interview location. “The suspect is a confessed serial rapist who has owned up to the raping of other victims. He will be charged at the conclusion of investigation,” Police Public Relations Officer in the state, Odiko Macdon, said in a statement. Growing unemployment rate High unemployment rate in Nigeria and jostling for the few available jobs have been said to be the enabling ground for criminally-minded people offering phony jobs to swindle money out of desperate job-seekers. In some cases, unsuspecting job applicants fall victim to kidnapping or cruel murder like that of Umoren. The International Labour Organisation in its 2019 report estimated youth unemployment rate in Africa’s largest economy to be around 20 per cent. “Unemployment in Nigeria is largely attributed to the phenomena of jobless growth, increased number of school graduates with no matching job opportunities, a freeze in employment in many public and private sector institutions and continued job losses in the manufacturing and oil sectors,” ILO stated. The National Bureau of Statistics revealed more troubling statistics in its December 2020 report on unemployment which has surged to 33.3 per cent from 27.1 per cent recorded in the second quarter of the year under review. People within ages 15-64, who are able and willing to work, were estimated at 69,675,468 – about 33 per cent of the estimated 206 million population recently disclosed by the National Population Commission. Of this number (69,675,468) those within the age bracket of 25-34, where Umoren belonged, were highest, with 20,091,695, representing 37.2 per cent while unemployment for people aged 15 to 24 stood at 53.4 per cent according to the NBS. The jobless rate for women was 35.2 per cent compared with 31.8 per cent for men. Stating further, the bureau indicated that the unemployment rate among rural dwellers was 34.5 per cent up from 28.2 per cent in Q2, 2020, while joblessness among urban residents surged to 31.3 per cent up from 26.4 per cent. For Q4, 2020, the unemployment rate among young people (15-34 years) was 42.5 per cent up from 34.9 per cent while a total number of 12,160,178 didn’t do any work in the last seven days preceding the survey. Fake employers’ antics Over the years, fake employers have devised means of cashing in on the worsening unemployment in the country to perpetrate fraudulent acts and heinous crimes such as ritual killings and kidnapping. Among tactics the syndicate deploys are advertising of spurious jobs via questionable websites, cloning email addresses of reputable organisations to send job invitations to individuals, pasting job notices on the streets with a promise of N3,000 to N5,000 daily pay or handsome monthly remuneration. For instance, when our correspondent called a phone number attached to an “ushering job” pasted on the median along College Road area of Ogba, Lagos, on Wednesday, it was discovered that the job was a ruse. The receiver, who identified himself only as Ahmed, said the vacancy for the ushering job had been occupied but told our correspondent he has “a juicy offer.” “It is called digital shares,” he began. “If you invest about N13,000, within two weeks, you will get a dividend on your investment and as time goes on, you can make as much as N4m in a week,” he said emphatically. “That is far better than working for someone. Let’s meet on Monday for more discussion,” he added before ending the call. In another job notice along the road tagged ‘Work in Airport,’ the receiver curtly said “wrong number” when contacted by Sunday PUNCH and abruptly ended the call; perhaps he had achieved his mission. In an earlier interview with Sunday PUNCH, a jobseeker, who identified himself simply as Valentine, had narrated how one Chief Ben tricked him to Port Harcourt, Rivers State, under false pretences of offering him a job at an oil firm. He had said, “I live in Lagos and I’ve been looking for a job since 2018. Sometime in 2019, I was contacted by one Chief Ben who said he got my contact from a job listing site where I registered. He said an oil firm was recruiting but I’d need to see him before he could help me. “He was friendly with me on the phone and I thought my miracle had come until I was tricked down to one village in Etche Local Government Area of Rivers State. My family paid ransom before I was released. I can’t share many details because it’s a traumatic experience for me.” In a post on nairaland, another victim with the moniker, Trash, shared how a supposed job offer in Ikeja, Lagos, with a promise of N3,500 daily pay turned out to be a spurious vacancy. Trash, who claimed to be a law graduate, said he was in need of a job “so bad” at the time. Trash’s post read in part, “I was in a bid to secure a better job anywhere in Lagos when I ran across a posted bill around Toyin Street, Ikeja. It requested an applicant who could work in a manufacturing company with daily payment of N3,500 after work. Though I was observing it might not be real, I gave it a try. “When I called the number on the paper, a lady picked it and she directed me to come for an interview by 7:30am. I called her around 8am the next day if I could still make the interview and she answered in the affirmation. When I got to the venue, the scene I observed was confusing, as it looked like young people were on the pitch, no company building; no signpost. “While some people were lecturing others one on one, some were to train people to sing and do exercise (Like NYSC Orientation Camp). When a young lady at the entrance asked of my mission, I told her I was there for an interview of N3,500 daily pay job. Another woman was assigned to sit me down and start lecturing me on the object of the company. “I was a bit confused. I wasn’t too comfortable with the atmosphere when the lecture started. It was two hours after the interpersonal lecture started that the company was all about promoting health products and winning new members into a supposed foreign firm and I had to pay N10,600 to be a member. No daily pay. No manufacturing company. My time wasted. Transport fare wasted. I just pretended like all was well.” Busting the tactics The Chief Executive Officer of a Lagos-based recruitment firm, MyJobMag, Mr Ogugua Belonwu, said that there were measures jobseekers needed to take to avoid falling prey to job scams. He noted that Internet platforms such as Linkedin, Facebook, Google map, among others, were veritable means of running checks on job offers and hiring organisations. Belonwu stated, “The Akwa Ibom incident was a sad one. As a jobseeker, the first thing to look out for is the name of the hiring company. We are in the era of the Internet and every company has a trace. You can go online to search for the company. You can also check on the CAC (Corporate Affairs Commission) database to see if the company is registered. Then, check for the address of the company. “There is a particular feature on Google map that you can use to check the location of the company. Though it doesn’t get updated in real time, you can use the idea of what the place looked like a few months ago. Based on what you read about the company online, assuming it’s stated that the company was established in 2010, it is wise to go to Linkedin and search for the company. “If they claim to have been doing business for 10 years, there must be someone who would have worked there. You can also check the company’s profile on Facebook. For a company that is not reputable and you’re not sure of, get the name of the interviewer and run a check on it.” Belonwu further warned that some scammers might send job invites using the email of a registered company, advising job-seekers to be suspicious whenever they got such invitations for jobs they didn’t apply for. He said, “Technically, there is a way an email can be sent that it will appear as if it comes from a particular domain whereas it is not. It is called email spoofing. The tone of the mail can also be unprofessional and the sender usually attracts people with juicy roles. “When you get an invite that appears to be from a reputable platform, it will be good to place a call through to that platform or contact the company to be sure that the invite is coming from them. People should also be careful in giving out information like address, references in the CV; such information has to be given on request. “If you get to a place and they start asking you to pay for training or it turns out to be networking stuff, you should know it’s a scam. If the training is that important, the employer will either pay for it or employ someone who already has that skill.” He advised job-seekers to leave the venue of interviews “as fast as possible” as soon as they noticed a red flag. Also, the founder and CEO of Procivi Limited, a recruitment outfit in Delta State, Mr Nwaka Osakwuni, said that despite the desperation to get a job, it was vital for job-seekers to always apply for jobs found on the Internet by ensuring similarity with the forwarding email address for application submission and the customised email address of the hiring company. He added, “Also, only go to a company to submit your application if it’s located in a business district or busy location; not outskirts. Always make use of Google to verify every organisation and search for that company using LinkedIn. “Chances are you might find people who work with the company on LinkedIn to do further verification. And lastly, it’s advisable to always work with a recruiting agency in your job search. This is the safest and most important.” The Managing Director, Novatia Consulting, Mr Olaotan Akinniranye, stated that job applicants could unravel the genuineness of an organisation by running a check on its corporate structure which according to him is usually built around people of high profiles. He said, “What kind of a company will schedule an interview in a hotel or eatery? Even when you have organsiations recruiting personally, you have to be suspicious about it because there are well known recruitment agencies that any organisation can leverage as far as recruiting is concerned.” Akinniranye also warned that over ambitious job-seekers were susceptible to job scam, saying that “it is too archaic for anybody to trust an invite from any organisation whose domain cannot be verified.” He added, “The nature of implementing fraudulent jobs is always in haste. If you submit an application today, and you are called in the next 48 hours to come for an interview, you should be suspicious. You need to check if the site is secure. Check out the history of that organisation.” A former President of Trade Union Congress, Mr Bobboi Kaigama, advised jobseekers to be wary of job advertisements on social media and do due diligence whenever they find one. He added, “I will also advise the advertising companies or the consultants to place more adverts through print or electronic media to prevent employment scam. Some of them go to social media because they don’t want to pay money.’’ Meanwhile, commiserating with family and friends of the late Umoren, Minister of Youth and Sports Development, Mr Sunday Dare, said that it was time the government established a youth-based national unemployment register to avail jobless people of unemployment benefits. The minister tweeted, “I intend to lead in this direction. This data can be part of the National Social Register already in place.’’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com