A former Governor of Ogun State, Segun Osoba, on Tuesday described the first 16 years after he left office as governor of the state as traumatic. Osoba said his successors, Gbenga Daniel and Senator Ibikunle Amosun, made the state “hell” for him after he left office in 2003. The former governor spoke at the inauguration of a press centre built on the premises of the Governor’s Office in Oke-Mosan, Abeokuta, and named after him. Osoba said immediately he handed over to Daniel in 2003, he was declared persona non grata by the administration, which he said prevented him from entering the state after his tenure. He said, “When I left office, I was so harassed to the point that all the plaques and the symbols of all the projects I did were the first to be removed all throughout the state. “The first 16 years of my leaving this office have been very, very traumatic. I never came back; I became a snake that doesn’t go back to where it has turned over its skin. These premises (Governor’s Office) became a no-go area for me. To imagine that in my life my return to these premises will be this glorious is something of emotion. “The first eight years, I was virtually declared persona non grata in Ogun State. Well, that is settled, those involved have come to apologise. “My name was sent to EFCC so many times. One Barrister Sofu was paid by the government to be taking adverts in all papers claiming all infractions of any kind. The EFCC investigated and investigated because everything was documented in files, they found nothing. “I couldn’t come to Abeokuta, not to talk of visiting the office of the governor. The other eight years that one also became problematic.” Speaking on how Abiodun emerged the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress in the 2019 election, Osoba said contrary to general belief that he produced Abiodun, he was only part of the process that led to his emergence. “He (Abiodun) was not in the reckoning; he was never one of the aspirants. In fact, when he came to me, I said no, how many days are left? But God is great. When God decides on something, you can’t explain the ways of God. So, I didn’t produce Governor Dapo Abiodun; God produced him and I thank God that I was part of that process,” he added. Osoba commended Abiodun for naming the press centre after him, saying the gesture would contribute to the development of journalism in the state. The governor lauded the former governor for his contributions to the development of the state and the country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com