They have started talking from both sides of the mouth to further deepen the disunity in the country at a time everything boils. A country that insecurity has pummelled hard blows and many citizens are only hoping that efforts would be made to salvage whatever remains. Eavesdropper, like many others, is embarrassed to read self-centred positions on open grazing. Even if no one states it, it’s glaring that nomadic grazing of cows is no longer sustainable in this age. It’s not rocket science. To think otherwise is anachronistic, self-serving and partial. Who will even support such a method in an age when the world has gone digital. Na who do us for this country? Yet, some are energetically supporting such ridiculous and primitive ways. Eavesdropper is not lost on the fact that those who opposed open grazing have beautifully exposed the real enemies of Nigeria. The enemies who pretend to love Nigeria but do so for self and nothing more. Several advanced countries create ranches to engage in cattle business. They have seen the future yet some feel age-old practice is what everyone must be subjected to. In the continued open grazing method, many have been denied their source of livelihoods as farms with crops destroyed at will. Farmers cry unend with no help from anywhere. They cry to the government with no response and many have decided to grieve in silence. There are several farmers in the North-Central and South-West who have lost huge amounts when herders took their cows for grazing on farmlands with ready-to-harvest crops. Those noise-makers who continue to embarrass the country didn’t think it was necessary to halt the trend. Till now, the situation continues unabated and lawlessness appears to have replaced law and order. For example, some maize farmers in Ekiti State were victims of the disorder. In February this year, they lamented the destruction of their multi-million naira farms by cows. The farmers, who are members of the Maize Growers, Processors and Marketers’ Association of Nigeria, Ekiti State branch, said the farm, on over 60 hectares at Ago Aduloju forest along Ado–Ijan Road in Ado Ekiti, were destroyed at the time the crop was ripe for harvest. It’s hard to imagine but that is the reality. Some people worked hard to start a business and some people hold the position that they are herding cows and can move them anywhere in the country including farms with crops.   Sadly, those who support the archaic method have never raised a finger to help the victims. They looked the other way when the victims grieved but irritatingly found their voices in deceit and lies. Eavesdropper is certain that those who moved against open grazing are the genuine lovers of Nigeria. Apart from destruction of farms, the outdated method has also continually caused conflicts between farmers and herders, leading to loss of lives. Families are left to mourn their dead and the crises have turned many women to widows and rendered many houses desolate. Cases abound in Benue State where farmers are killed because of resistance to take over farmlands after destroying their crops. It is also the same situation in Ogun where people were chased out of their homes. Human lives are precious and until the country realises this, it will continue in motion without movement. The task before the government should be how to end the crisis which has caused more havoc in the country. Nigeria obviously cannot continue this way. The best approach is to always take a decision that will benefit the majority. Eavesdropper notes that the country aspires for greater heights and it’s the reason everything it does must echo law and justice. There is no alternative to this. The tragic plane crash The country was thrown into mourning last Friday when a plane which had the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, and 10 others on board crashed in Kaduna State. The news moved many people to tears and the situation has left households in grief with dreams shattered. The burials of the victims were emotionally charged and many Nigerians were full of prayers for the departed. It’s tragic and Eavesdropper prays fortitude for the families to bear the huge losses. Nigeria should not let their death be in vain. Their memories should be preserved among the country’s heroes. The fight against insurgency should be renewed for the country to triumph. The country’s soldiers are equal to the task. With the right motivation and transparency, insurgency will surely be a thing of the past. It should be seen that the dead didn’t die in vain and efforts should be made to inspire hope in all. The COAS and others were said to be on their way to Kaduna to attend Saturday’s passing-out parade of soldiers from the Nigerian Army Depot in Zaria.