Some aggrieved members of the All Progressives Congress have staged a protest against the party’s adoption of consensus candidature in some local government areas. The protest held a few hours after the leadership of the party announced that the party will be adopting consensus candidates in some local government areas. The party leadership had said where necessary, the party will make use of either the direct or indirect primaries for other local government areas which could not arrive at an agreement for consensus candidates. The crisis is brewing ahead of the forthcoming July, 24 Local government elections in the state. The protesters, who stormed the Secretariat of the Nigeria Union of Journalists, Ogun State Council, accused some leaders of the APC in Abeokuta South Local Government of imposing a chairmanship candidate on them. Carrying placards with various inscriptions such as ‘We Say No To Money Bag In Abeokuta South’, ‘Let Party Members Pick Who They Want’, the aggrieved protesters said their preferred aspirant is Farouk Akintunde. One of the party leaders who led the protest, Balogun Ololade, urged Governor Dapo Abiodun to intervene in the matter “to safe democracy from jeopardy”. Meanwhile, the Publicity Secretary of the party’s Caretaker Committee, Tunde Oladunjoye, insisted that the arrangement is to ensure that none of the contestants in the LG elections spend money unnecessarily. Oladunjoye said, “We are all in Ogun State, we know what happened with “breaking news” at this particular venue when the immediate past administration made arrangement whereby all the names of 236 councillors and 20 local government chairmen were just held in a file, including even other elective officers at the state and national level. “But to the glory of God, we are not having that kind of dispensation in Ogun State now, we have a governor that has chosen to consult the people and the leaders, and the primaries we are going to have will not be conducted in one corner of the house. “The constitution of the party states that such primaries for local government must be conducted at the local government headquarters and those for the ward must be conducted at the meeting venue of the ward.” He, however, disclosed that the process of reaching consensus on the candidates had already started, saying lists of agreed candidates would be made available during the week. “The leaders have assured the governor that the process of reaching consensus is ongoing, and by Wednesday, they will come back with the list of agreed candidates in the local government. We expect that some local governments will come back with one candidate, while those who have more than two or three will go for direct primaries.”