The Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria has joined the voices demanding a brand new constitution for the country. The Christian body rejected the review of the country’s constitution currently being undertaken by the National Assembly. The PFN’s position was contained in a statement on Saturday jointly signed by its National President, Bishop Wale Oke, National Secretary, Dr Cosmas Ilechukwu, and National Legal Adviser, Funmi Quadri (SAN). The body argued that merely amending the current constitution would not meet the widespread clamour for the restructuring of the country. It said, “The Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria is aware of the ongoing constitutional review process being undertaken by the Senate of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the public hearing sessions scheduled by the Senate for May 26th and 27th, 2021 across the six geo-political zones of the country. “As a result, the Fellowship maintains that the current constitution, which serves as the conveyor belt for the administration of the country, is anti-people and faulty. “We declare that the present constitution is not a people’s constitution and does not, in anyway, reflect the aspirations and yearnings of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria and the people of Nigeria. “The Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria is firmly of the view that the review process by amending a segment of the constitution, might just be an exercise in futility that cannot meet the expectation of the people.” To this end, the PFN said it would join forces with other groups in the country in repudiating the 1999 Constitution, calling, instead, for the enactment of a new one that would be acceptable and more pliable to the yearnings of Nigerians. “We stand with the different groups and people across the length and breadth of Nigeria in rejecting the 1999 Constitution, and maintain that it cannot deliver a framework for good governance. “We do not see the ongoing process of ‘proposed alteration to the provision of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999’ achieving the objectives of restructuring Nigeria, as desired and canvassed by millions of Nigerians and the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria. “The Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria  demands  a new constitution as per other matters coming under paragraph 17 of the public notice that will guarantee a truly federalist structure for the good and prosperity of all Nigerians.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com