THE pan-Northern socio-political organisation, Arewa Consultative Forum, has expressed concern over the Federal Government’s silence on calls to probe an allegation of a helicopter distributing weapons, foodstuffs to bandits in Niger State. The ACF said neither the Federal Government nor its agents had reacted to the matter despite its calls for investigation. The National Publicity Secretary of the forum, Emmanuel Yawe, made this known in a statement titled, ‘Our current major security worries ACF’, released in Kaduna on Sunday. According to the ACF, the matter must not be swept under the carpet as usual and Nigerians need to be assured that their security matter. The northern body argued that government’s silence on the matter was nothing short of conspiracy and betrayal of public trust. The statement read, “The Arewa Consultative Forum issued a statement about a week ago, calling for an open, immediate and transparent investigation into the wild and wide allegations that a helicopter was distributing weapons, foodstuffs and other daily needs of the bandits, particularly in Niger State. “Since our call, we have not received any reaction from the government or relevant security agencies despite the fact our call received wide media publicity. “We wish to remind the government and her security agencies that this is not a matter that can be swept under the carpet if we are serious about fighting insecurity in Nigeria. “Niger State which is said to be the area of operation of the helicopter shares a boundary with the Federal Capital Territory and has been invaded and terrorised and is on the verge of being overrun by bandits of late. Meanwhile, the ACF called on the government to as a matter of urgency investigate an allegation that some northern youths were conveyed in 35 buses to the East in search of ‘work’. It noted that there were suspicion and speculation that the young men were Boko Haram mercenaries. The Forum said, “Also, we watched with dismay a few days ago a news item on Channels TV that 35 buses conveying 485 northern youths to the East in search of work. “Earlier, 120 such youths were delivered to the East in search for such ‘work’. There is wide suspicion and speculation that the young men on this wild goose chase for ‘work’ are Boko Haram mercenaries.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com