Katsina Emirate Council has dismissed Sarkin Pawwan Katsina, (district head of Kankara), Alhaji Yusuf Lawal over alleged aiding and abetting banditry in the district. The Emirate initially suspended Lawal in April( last month). His dismissal was however effected on Friday after the Emirate received a letter from the state government which also allegedly indicted him of all the allegations levelled against him. The allegations essentially bordered on alleged aiding and abetting banditry activities in his district. The Emirate spokesman ( Sarkin Labarai) Alhaji Ibrahim Bindawa confirmed the development to Sunday PUNCH on Saturday. Bindawa said, “The Emirate dismissed him(Lawal) yesterday (Friday) after a letter was received from the state government which also indicted him of allegations levelled against him which led to his initial suspension.” It could, however, not be determined as at press time whether Lawal had been handed over to the police or whether he would be prosecuted as Bindawa declared that he did not know anything concerning the issue. ” All I can say for now is that the Emirate council has dismissed him”, he said in response to enquiries on what becomes of Lawal after the dismissal. It was further learnt that a committee set up by the Emirate, after meeting security officials and other stakeholders especially from Kankara district, found Lawal guilty of aiding and abetting banditry and kidnapping in his domain. He was also found guilty of allegedly frustrating efforts to tackle bandits. Efforts to get Lawal’s comments or reaction on the development were unsuccessful as he was said not to be in town while his phone lines were not going through. Kankara received negative local and international limelight last December when bandits abducted 344 students of Government Science Secondary School from their hostel in the town. The students were rescued six days later but the state government had since then evolved strategies to ensure the safety of pupils and staff in its secondary schools among which was pruning down the number of boarding schools in the state and establishment of security committee in each school.