THE Federal Government may have quietly dumped the social distancing protocol that hitherto made its Abuja-Kaduna trains operate with half of their passenger capacity, The PUNCH reports. Despite the revert to the old arrangement of operating with full passenger capacity, the Nigeria Railway Corporation still retains the new fares introduced to cover for the empty seats deliberately left to ensure social distancing. Recall that pre-COVID-19 lockdown, fares for economy and business classes on Abuja-Kaduna trains were N1,500 and N3,000 respectively. As the then Presidential Task Force on COVID-19 started easing the lockdown and train services resumed, the Ministry of Transportation had said passengers would have to pay more to make up for the empty seats to allow social distancing. The government, therefore, increased the fares by 100 per cent with fares for economy and business classes rising to N3,000 and N6,000 respectively. Since July 2020, the trains have been operating with only half their passenger capacity. Our correspondents who monitored events in some of the train stations, however, reported that trains now operated with full passenger capacity without a corresponding reduction of fares to the old rate. One of our correspondents, who boarded the Abuja-Kaduna train from Idu Station in Abuja on Monday, noticed that seats in the economy coaches were fully occupied while other coaches remained vacant. On arrival at Kubwa Station, also in Abuja, other passengers joined the train and occupied the empty seats thought to be left for social distancing. The same scenario played out at Jere and Rijana stations both in Kaduna State before the train arrived at Rigasa Station which is the final stop. Some passengers, who spoke with The PUNCH, expressed surprise that the operators of the train had resorted to operating full passenger capacity without reducing fares. A frequent train user, Mr Sadiq Rotimi, said, “At the point of entry at Idu, we were not informed about any changes. It was the same prices. Even if they have to do it this way, they should explain it to the travellers and at least, reduce the fares to reflect the change of seating arrangements. That was not done. “People just came and located their seat numbers and sat together.” The Operating Manager, Abuja-Kaduna Railway Service, Mr Victor Adamu, confirmed in an interview with The PUNCH that the social distancing protocol had been relaxed based on the directive of the Ministry of Transportation. Adamu, however, said he had not received any directive to revert to old fares. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com