The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), has promised to bequeath a better Nigeria for the present and future generations. He said this at the Presidential Villa on Thursday while celebrating this year’s Children’s Day. This was contained in a statement by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, titled: ‘Our greatest legacy is to give you a better country, President Buhari tells Nigerian children’. The statement read, “As part of the activities to commemorate the Children’s Day, observed on May 27, the President hosted a group of Nigerian children at the State House. “The short ceremony witnessed the cutting of a ‘national cake’, a guided tour of the President’s office, meeting rooms, banquet hall and the zoo at the Presidential Villa. “Describing children as precious blessings, who should be nurtured to carry the burden of the society in the future, President Buhari, after spending a memorable time with his august visitors, bid them farewell, saying: ‘Bye-bye, see you next year.’” The Federal Government on Thursday launched 40 million safety kits for schoolchildren in Nigeria. The Ministry of Education Permanent Secretary, Sonny Echono, disclosed that statistics revealed an increase in the number of schoolchildren involved in road-related accidents without any commensurate improvement in preventive measures, especially the availability of first aid facilities. He said, “Kitting schoolchildren with reflective jackets to ensure visibility is very important. “Manning the exit and entrance roads with guards, provision of road signage, zebra crossings and training of teachers for increased uptake of knowledge therein are capital intensive. “There is need for extensive collaborations for the successful implementation of this laudable scheme. The government’s effort to ensure quality education for all should be complemented by endeavours to safeguard lives as parents strive towards achieving their wards academic potentials.” The Minister of State for Education, Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba, said the ministry was committed towards creating an inclusive and safe academic environment for all learners. He said, “We implore all interest groups, including local and international donors, to support this programme as a humanitarian act. Nwajiuba disclosed that the Minister of Education, Adamu Adamu, was absent at the event because he travelled “for medical reasons.” The Gombe State Governor, Muhammadu Yahaya, felicitated children as they celebrated their special day. The governor, in a statement by the Director General, Press Affairs, Government House, Ismaila Misilli, described children as the hope of the nation, saying his administration was committed to their welfare and sound education. The statement read in part, “It is very imperative for parents, community leaders, teachers and all involved in children upbringing to take mentoring seriously and provide good leadership to them. “Education is the best weapon of preparing children for leadership, as well as peaceful and prosperous society.” Similarly, Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State, who addressed children, who celebrated with his wife, Nkechi, in Umuahia, said he would support any indigent child that would want to further their education. Nkechi also commended Abia children and enjoined them to be good ambassadors of the state and their families. In Edo State, Governor Godwin Obaseki, said his administration would strengthen public institutions to guarantee a sustainable future for children. He said, “In Edo State, children are beneficiaries of very pragmatic reforms that we have undertaken in the education sector over these past four years. “It is indeed fulfilling that we can see the evidence of the huge investment made in transforming the way our children learn, which is manifest in the outcomes from our basic education sector.” Also, the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Muhammad Bello, charged children to be patriotic at all times. Bello, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Anthony Ogunleye, also advised the children to imbibe the virtues of integrity, honesty, hard work, discipline and a deep sense of patriotism and love for the nation. He said, “Also, as national and global leaders of the future with the desire to ensure the greatness of Nigeria and also excel in your chosen fields of endeavour, it is essential that you embrace these character traits.” ‘No child must run errands during school hours’ Likewise, the Ekiti State Government appealed to parents to take advantage of the opportunity provided to better the lot of their children. The Commissioner for Women Affairs, Alhaja Maryam Ogunlade, in a statement said, “It is a gross violation of the rights of children to make them run errands or hawking during school hours contrary to the law of the land.” The commissioner advised children to be focused and concentrate on their studies, stressing the need for them to shun vices that may be detrimental to their progress. 13-year-old Ogun student gets scholarship Meanwhile, the Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun, on Thursday, awarded a full scholarship to a public secondary student, Oyinbo Precious, during the celebration of 2021the World Children’s Day. Precious, a Senior Secondary School two student of Naiwar-Ud-Deen Grammar School, Obantoko Abeokuta, recited a citation on the obligations of parents towards their children at the march past to celebrate the day. Her exceptional recitation attracted the attention of the governor, who awarded her full scholarship to cover her secondary and tertiary education. The governor also said, “Children deserve to be celebrated every day because they are our future. We must therefore sacrifice today for them to have a future to build on.” Osun warns against leaving children with relatives The Osun State Government warned parents to ensure safety of their wards, saying it is no longer safe to leave children in the care of neighbours and relatives. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com