The Lagos State Government has said the state will soon become the hub for tourism, leisure and business in Nigeria. The state added that it was considering a public holiday for traditional worshippers in the state. The Commissioner for Tourism, Art and Culture, Mrs Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuf, stated on Monday during the ongoing ministerial press briefing marking the second year anniversary of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu at Alausa, Ikeja, that some programmed of the government were geared towards accelerating tourism growth. Akinbile-Yusuf added that the ‘Community Based Tourism Initiative’ in the state local government areas would boost domestic tourism and community participation. She said, “This is to address community-based tourism potential by locally creating more awareness about tourist destinations and explore the strengthening and improvement on locations while offering authentic, affordable and favourable experiences and packages that meet the needs of tourists.” Akinbile-Yusuf also announced the ‘Tourism Master Plan and Eko Culture Series,’ saying both were aimed at showcasing and managing the rich heritage of the state to generate revenue. She said, “With the master plan, we hope to lay the foundation for developing a comprehensive and sustainable tourism strategy for the state which focuses on rich heritage, community development, heritage management, preservation and revenue generation.” Similarly, the Special Adviser to Special Adviser to the Governor on Tourism, Arts and Culture, Mr Solomon Bonu, said a bill at the state House of Assembly, which would soon be signed into law by the governor, would earmark a public holiday for traditional worshippers and regulate their activities. “Very soon, the State House of Assembly will pass a bill regarding the activities of traditional worshipers. With the bill, there will be a specific day earmarked for them as public holiday or work-free day, and on that day which may likely be in August. “The government will organise activities to celebrate with them at a venue where all worshipers will gather to showcase their stuff. Again, this bill will also regulate activities of the worshipers; including masqueraders, in order to turn it tourists’ attraction,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com