RESIDENTS of Polo, one of the communities in Maiduguri attacked by Boko Haram insurgents in Borno State on Tuesday, have said that the terrorist deliberately did not fire any gunshot at them, even when they came close to them with their gun trucks. READ ALSO: Police suspend VIPs, lawmakers, others’ special protection in Imo, Rivers, others The residents explained that the terrorists attacked the military formation in the area. The insurgents had carried out the surprise attack on Jiddari Polo at about 5.30pm, killing three soldiers and setting several houses ablaze in their attempt to upset the festive mood in the area. The insurgents attacked Jiddari Polo killing three soldiers and setting ablaze houses and cars in the process. The insurgents, according to witnesses around Jiddari Polo, drove into Maiduguri from the northern axis which connects to Sambisa forest in motorcycles and gun trucks, shooting sporadically into the air to scare away residents. One of the residents, Asabe Titus, narrated her experience, saying, “The insurgents drove into the community in their motorcycles, gun trucks and some on foot shooting sporadically into the air without aiming at anybody. “We started running out of our houses and then we saw them coming in from the cashew plantation area, they didn’t shoot at us. Some of them were dressed in red, others in black mufti. They said they didn’t come for us and that we should not run. “While we were running for our lives, the Boko Haram terrorists were right behind us, shooting sporadically. Truth be told, if they had meant to kill civilians, they would have killed many because they were already in the community and nobody expected them. “Some of them headed to the military formation located there while others went into town and set houses on fire. I think they burnt down three houses and cars. They even made away with several cars “They killed three soldiers but the Nigerian troops killed scores of them. I can’t give the accurate numbers because the army had cleared all corpses before day break and they have been chasing us away from the scene of the attack.”  Another resident of Jidda Polo, Ibrahim Mohammed, said, “The insurgents got into the town quite okay but they didn’t kill any civilian. We have to give credit to the crack team; they came in and neutralised the insurgents. I was in my house as of the time of the attack. I was alerted by the sound of gunshots. “It was the police crack team that dealt the insurgents heavy casualties. When they came in as reinforcement, they took on the insurgents head on, chasing them in their Hilux vans,” Mohammed said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com