Pastor Dare Adeboye, the late son of the General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, Pastor Enoch Adeboye, once said in an interview that he aspired to become a footballer when he was younger. The 42-year-old, who died on Wednesday in Eket, Akwa Ibom State, where he was based with his family, was, however, the Assistant Pastor in charge of Region (Youth) 35 before his death. His death shocked the whole world as well-meaning persons including presidents, governors, and personalities condoled the 79-year-old general overseer and his wife over the death of their son. In a string of Instagram posts, the deceased’s brother, Leke, paid glowing tribute to him. Leke also uploaded an old video of an interview that featured the late Dare. During the interview session, the interviewer asked Dare what profession he would have opted for had his parents not pastors. Responding, Dare said, “I wanted to be a footballer, I wanted to be several other things but looking at the answer my sister just gave about how we all found ourselves as pastors, I guess it was all written before the heavens were created that that is what we were going to be. It was not necessarily because our father and our mother is General Overseer and Mother in Israel.” Leke, who also uploaded several photos of his late brother, captioned one of the photos thus, “Your fist was still clenched like you were holding a mic(rophone). But this time with your eyes closed and smiling. It’s my birthday on May 20. You would have sent me a cash gift as a little brother. And I would have retaliated on June 9. I still will, as you have given me a gift of being my brother. Thank you for all the experiences. The good, the grilling and the godly.” Dare would have been 43 years old next month, June. Last year, on his 42nd birthday, his dad, the older Adeboye on a social media post described him as his first miracle child. He wrote on his Facebook page, “Our first miracle child. We pray that God will keep his miraculous working power in your life and all those who need a miracle today, will use you as a point of contact for their own in Jesus’ name. (Amen) love from Dad, Mom, and the whole Adeboye dynasty.” Dare was happily married with children.