The Lagos State Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources says the residents of Lagos get just 1000 megawatts of power supply for not more than 12 hours on the average daily. A document, The Electricity Policy Consultation Paper, released by the state recently stated that energy supply was Lagos’ single biggest infrastructural and developmental challenge. It also disclosed that the Lagos State Electricity Board found that 15,000MW of the estimated 45,000MW of alternative power supply in Nigeria were generated within Lagos. The ministry said it was developing an Integrated Resource Plan that would meet future electricity demand by establishing the availability of fuel and electricity generation resources in Lagos. It said, “Capacity utilisation for industries in Lagos, however, has hovered for almost a decade below 50 per cent, indicating huge potential for growth. “The primary reason for this underutilisation is the poor supply of electricity, not markets. “According to the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria economic review, manufacturers in Lagos experience a daily average of six power outages, with only about four hours of electricity.” “Another way to appreciate the dire situation in Lagos is to note that assuming a daily average of 4,500MW of which 80 per cent is delivered to all 11 Discos for an average of 12 hours daily, all the energy delivered by the ‘national grid system’ across the country is not enough even if it is all sent to Lagos,” the ministry added. This necessitated the creation of the IRP in partnership with the United States Agency for International Development Power Africa-Nigeria Power Sector Programme in 2019 towards developing an environmentally friendly and climate efficient Lagos Energy Market. The document disclosed that 69 per cent of Lagos households were either unconnected to the national grid or off the grid. The ministry disclosed that as part of its plan, it would create an Independent System Operator to operate its own transmission grid. The grid will be separate but connected to the national grid and the IRP would be directed towards areas of the state not covered by the national grid. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com