As part of its efforts to encourage more passengers on Lagos waters, the state government has announced the acquisition of more boats and the building of 15 new jetties across coastal lines in the state. In addition, the government, through its agency, the Lagos State Waterways Authority, has also announced the distribution of 400 life jackets to ferry passengers, school children and boat operators at Ebute-Ero, Sabokoji, Liverpool, Temidire, and Coconut jetties. This was made known through a statement issued by the state government. It said, “In a demonstration of its commitment to a multimodal transport system aimed at tackling traffic gridlocks across the metropolis, LASG has taken delivery of seven new boats equipped with modern gadgets and built solely by local manufacturers to international standards. “These new boats will be deployed immediately to take care of the increasing number of commuters and we can assure you that Lagosians are in for a bundle of productive experiences in water transportation.” It added, “Safety of lives is a significant priority to Lagos State Waterways Authority as the agency in charge of the Lagos Inland Waterways. “In continuation of its safety awareness campaign programme, the agency has embarked on a life jacket donation exercise. Four hundred life jackets of various sizes were donated to ferry passengers, school children and boat operators. “The exercise took place at Ebute-Ero, Sabokoji, Liverpool, Temidire, and Coconut jetties in CMS and Apapa areas of Lagos State.” The General Manager of LASWA, Mr Oluwadamilola Emmanuel, confirmed the donations and said that it was part of the government’s effort to ensure adequate safety of all waterways users, especially during the rainy season. Emmanuel claimed that in recent times, boat mishaps on the waterways had reduced. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com