Olanrewaju James, popularly known as, Baba Ijesha, is traumatised and walks with difficulties in police detention, his lawyer, Adesina Ogunlana, has said. Ogunlana said this in a letter addressed to the Commissioner of Police seeking Baba Ijesha’s bail on Friday. A copy of the letter obtained by our correspondent was dated, May 14, 2021, and titled ‘Re: Olanrewaju James Omiyinka application for immediate grant of bail’. Narrating his observation after his visitation to Baba Ijesha in police detention, Ogunlana said the rape suspect is also looking abnormally weak and lean. Part of the letter read, “We are aware that a piece of legal advice on our client’s matter has been issued about two weeks ago, disclosing prospective charges of bailable character. “From all indications, the investigation has been concluded in his matter and it is inconceivable that the issuance of legal advice will now be a basis for the denial of bail as you have been widely reported in the press to have claimed. “We submit that the continuous detention of Mr Olanrewaju James Omiyinka at your SCID Panti Yaba facility, for about thirty days now, in our respectful view, is in gross breach of his fundamental human rights as cognisable under the 1999 constitution the grand norm of the nation’s legal architecture. “As of today when I met with Omiyinka in the company of his thespian colleague and ready surety, Mr Yomi Fabiyi, he appeared traumatised, emaciated, and walked with a limp in his right leg. May I assure you, sir, that Mr Omiyinka is not a flight risk and he is prepared to face trial.” Nigerian comedian-cum-actress Princess has broken down in tears on social media while narrating how popular actor Olarenwaju James (Baba Ijesha) allegedly raped her 14-years old foster child. In a viral video, the comedienne revealed how some parents had allowed their kids to stay with her after the crash of her marriage so she wouldn’t be lonely. She said that the incidence happened while she was rendering help to Baba Ijesha, adding that it was during one of his visits that he molested one of the three girls living with her. Princess said the defilement harmed the child as she began to sink academically and otherwise. After seven years, the little girl opened up to Princess and someone else what Baba Ijesha did to her. She said she wanted to catch him red-handed and had to call him for a meeting in her house where she set up a CCTV camera, and he was captured trying to molest the girl again. She berated people who are accusing her of trying to set up the actor and tarnish his image. Shortly after Ijesha’s arrest, his colleagues began to have different opinions about the issue, some of them claimed that he is innocent and can only be found guilty once the footage is released. Others said that it is inhumane to ask for a video of a child being molested to be put on social media. This has since caused a run-in between some of the actors. One of such persons is Actress Iyabo Ojo who took to her social platform to call out her colleague Yomi Fabiyi for his recent comments over the rape allegations against Baba Ijesha. Fabiyi while sympathising with Baba Ijesha had released a post asking his colleagues not to jump to conclusions. He went on to demand evidence first before taking sides. In the Instagram post, he wrote: “Sometimes COMMON SENSE and CAUTION are needed more irrespective of one’s personality and principle to serious issues or whatever you know. “I am not going to be part of a bad antecedent. If my words come ambiguous, seek understanding before rushing to hurt your colleague online, too low and dirty.” Also, actress, Foluke Daramola has come out to apologise to Princess for asking for the footage of her foster child being molested by Baba Ijesha. Nigerian comedian-cum-actress Princess had broken down in tears on social media while narrating how Baba Ijesha allegedly raped her 14-years old foster child. In a viral video, the comedienne said that the incidence happened while she was rendering help to Baba Ijesha, adding that it was during one of his visits that he molested one of the three girls living with her. Princess said the defilement harmed the child as she began to sink academically and otherwise. After seven years, the little girl opened up to Princess and someone else what Baba Ijesha allegedly did to her. She said she wanted to catch him red-handed and had to call him for a meeting in her house where she set up a CCTV camera, and he was captured trying to molest the girl again. Shortly after Ijesha’s arrest, his colleagues began to have different opinions about the issue which also caused a run-in between some of the actors. Some of them claimed that he is innocent and can only be found guilty after a court judgment. One of such persons is Actress Iyabo Ojo who took to her social platform to call out her colleague Yomi Fabiyi for his recent comments over the rape allegations against Baba Ijesha. Fabiyi while sympathising with Baba Ijesha had released a post asking his colleagues not to jump to conclusions. He went on to demand evidence first before taking sides.