Two of the contestants of the Nigerian Idol competition, Faith Mac and Dotun, have been evicted from the show, after scoring the least votes in the first round of public voting. Last week’s performances had the surviving contestants perform covers of songs composed by their music idols, while the judges – Seyi Shay, DJ Sose, and Obi Asika – watched. Kingdom, who is a fan of popstar, Teni, did a his rendition of the song Uyo Meyo, which was well received by the audience. DJ Sose remarked that he seemed very comfortable with the song and Seyi Shay noted that the performance was emotive. Another contestant, Daniel, did a cover of James Arthur’s song, Empty Spaces. His performance was met with criticism by Seyi Shay and Obi Asika, but DJ Sose believed that he did a good job. On his part, Faith Jason opted for the song ‘All Time Low’ by Jon Bellion — a song he performed during the audition. The judges loved it, even more, this time as Seyi Shay could not contain her excitement. While disclosing her admiration for the K-Pop band BTS, Beyonce chose to perform a cover of the track, Dynamite. DJ Sose commended her for showing her playful side while Obi Asika noted her growth through the stages of the competition. Emmanuel rendered a soulful cover of Labrinth’s song, Beneath Your Beautiful, which was lauded by Obi Asika for the palpable emotion. Seyi Shay described it as ‘captivating’, while DJ Sose remarked that Emmanuel will fare better as a live performer than a studio recording. The sixth contestant to be saved by the viewers was Akunna, the entertainment lawyer. Dressed in a glowing red dress, she took on the difficult task of covering Beyonce’s “XO”, but her strong voice carried the performance. The judges lauded her vocal range, as well as her stage presence. The voters also appeared to show kindness to Clinton, who put his vocals to the test with John Legend’s “Tonight”, with some help from the live band. Seyi Shay felt that the delivery was not “natural”, but praised him for his vocals. On his part, DJ Sose felt that he “owned” the song. During the show, IK Osakioduwa goaded the judges to disclose which of the remaining contestants would be saved if it was up to them. Obi Asika and DJ Sose chose Francis and Comfort, respectively, but Seyi Shay decided to plead the fifth. Also getting saved by the voting public was Francis, who chose to perform Sam Smith’s “Writing On The Wall” — the theme song for the James Bond film Spectre. The ninth and final contestant to earn nods from the viewers on the night was Comfort, who found it difficult to control her emotions on learning that she had made it to the next stage. This meant that for Dotun and Faith Mac, their respective journeys at Nigerian Idol Season 6 had come to an end.