The Federal Government on Sunday declared 90 international travellers from Brazil, India, and Turkey, wanted for violating the provisions of the COVID-19 Health Regulations Protection, 2021. The chairman of the Presidential Steering Committee on COVID-19 and Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, disclosed this in a statement on Sunday. Mustapha said the affected persons travelled into Nigeria from restricted countries and evaded the mandatory seven-day quarantine for persons arriving from such countries. He disclosed that the violators arrived in Nigeria between May 8 and May 15 through the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos and the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja. He said the affected persons have been declared Persons of Interest on account of posing a considerable danger to overall public health and for the violation of Nigeria COVID-19 travel protocol. The names of all the violators were listed alongside their nationality, passport number, airline, and date of arrival. The announcement read, “The Presidential Steering Committee on COVID-19 on May 1, 2021 issued a travel advisory for passengers arriving in Nigeria from Brazil, India and Turkey. “These precautionary measures are necessary steps to mitigate the risk of importation of variants of concern and break the chain of transmission to the population. “Under the new measures, passengers arriving from/or that have visited any of these three countries within 14days prior to the visit to Nigeria, are required to follow mandatory arrival quarantine and testing protocols in designated facilities.
“The PSC has however observed that while most of the arriving passengers dutifully observed the guidelines, some (Nigerians and foreigners) have violated them in contravention of the provisions of the COVID-19 Health Regulations Protection, 2021. “Accordingly, the underlisted persons who arrived in Nigeria between May 8, 2021 and May 15, 2021 through the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Lagos and Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja and whose names and passport numbers are displayed, have been declared Persons of Interest on account of posing considerable danger to overall public health and for the violation of Nigeria COVID-19 travel protocol by evading the mandatory 7-day quarantine for persons arriving from restricted countries. “Members of the public are by this notice advised that these persons of interest constitute an immediate health hazard to the society. They must therefore transport themselves safely, to the nearest state public health departments within 48hrs of this notice for immediate evaluation and call the Port Health Services, Federal Ministry of Health on 08036134672 or 08032461990 for further directions.” Mustapha added that the PSC shall take some additional steps to sanction the listed violators. These steps, he said, include disabling their travel passports for a period not less than one year; cancelation of visas/ permits of foreigners that have abused the country’s hospitality; and prosecution under the 2021 Health Protection Regulations. He promised to publish an additional list of Batch II defaulters later.