The Lagos State  government has said 231 distressed buildings were demolished while 29 buildings collapsed in the state in the past two years. The Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development for Lagos State, Dr Idris Salako, said this at a ministerial press briefing on Thursday marking the second anniversary of the administration of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. While outlining some of the achievements of the administration, he noted that four model city plans and three master plans had been awarded to address infrastructural deficiencies within the state. He also listed 30 action plans across various communities in Lagos, the approval of 12 layout plans and the delivery of right of way for 30 projects. He said as part of its major policy reforms, the state was enforcing a zero-tolerance policy on illegal building development and urged residents to desist from erecting buildings without permits or recourse to the Lagos State Building Control Agency. Salako said 32,522 properties in Lagos were served statutory notices, with 1,211 dilapidated structures identified. He reiterated the state’s order on the status of abandoned buildings, warning that all such buildings within the state must be completed or risk forfeiture. Responding to questions concerning the state’s road infrastructure, Salako said, “As at today, the Lekki-Epe Express Road has reached its maximum capacity. We need additional roads to take the pressure off that axis. I can tell you that contract for the fourth mainland road will be awarded before the end of this year.” The commissioner lamented the allegations of sharp practices levelled against officials of the ministry regarding marked buildings. He said, “One thing most of us don’t know which we should know is that we have these red marks placed on properties. Sometimes, we stop work for a week, two weeks, one month, three years and all of a sudden work starts again. What comes into the public’s mind is that we’ve collected money; we’ve been compromised – no. “We have processes. Even when we stop you from working and we mark your property, you’re supposed to go through certain processes to right the wrongs. You’re supposed to submit engineering reports and tidy up approvals. “If the developer has gone through these stages since the red mark is already there, it might give the misconception that we’ve been compromised. We came up with green stickers to show that such properties have been cleared.” The commissioner urged the general public to “adhere strictly to planning and building laws in order to reap the maximum benefit of improved living standards and provide a liveable and sustainable environment.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com