The family of a policeman, Sergeant Emehuru Oluchukwu, who survived a recent attack by gunmen on the Elimgbu Police Station in the Obio/Akpor Local Government Area of Rivers State, has decried the attitude of the police authorities towards his plight. The victim’s wife, Ngozi, while speaking to journalists in Port Harcourt on Wednesday, said the family needed urgent  help for surgery in order to remove the bullets in his body. Recall that gunmen attacked the Elimgbu Police Station, killing three cops and carting away four rifles. Emehuru, however, sustained serious gunshot injuries. Ngozi said her husband was admitted to the Rivers State University Teaching Hospital after the incident a fortnight ago. She expressed disappointment that the state police command had neither visited him in the hospital nor done anything to show concern for the cop. She said, “Things are very difficult for me and my children. It is now I know that when your partner is not around you will know something has happened to you. “Money is the problem now. We need help to at least support my husband to come back to his feet.” Also, the cop’s elder brother, Agbandu Oluchukwu, said there were three bullets in the victim’s body. “This incident happened at the Elimgbu Police Station. I believe the Commissioner of Police has visited that station, but why can’t he visit my brother? “I am begging the Rivers State Government to help us and take over the treatment. I spend N1,000 daily for dressing of the wound, not to talk of his feeding and that of his family,” he added. The state Commissioner of Police, Eboka Friday, said the incident was unfortunate, adding that he visited the injured officer in the hospital on Thursday. “I visited him in the hospital today (Thursday). Though he was asleep when I got there, I saw his wife. We are doing what we are supposed to do,” CP Friday said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com