The Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, says the state government has done over 1,097 school projects in over 970 schools across the state, including libraries, rehabilitation of dilapidated public schools and furnishing of primary schools with modern facilities. Sanwo-Olu, who was represented by the state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Gbenga Omotoso, said this at the launch of the completed school infrastructure projects at Ogudu Junior Grammar School, on Friday. According to him, the commissioned project is in line with the ‘Education and Technology’ pillar of the present administration, with the mantra, “If we must actualise our Greater Lagos vision, quality education must remain one of our most solid building blocks.” Speaking on the vital role of education in the growth and development of Lagos state, the governor stated that it had become pertinent for the government to ensure that the children had access to quality education and an enabling environment for excellent learning. He said, “In order to accelerate our children’s access to world-class pedagogical learning, we have aggressively embarked on the provision of blocks of classrooms, administrative offices, school furniture, laboratories, modern toilet facilities and security across the six education districts and local government councils. Therefore, our children have access to quality education, irrespective of their location.” Sanwo-Olu assured Lagosians that the administration would create an effective atmosphere for conducive learning by continuing to provide basic infrastructure, so students of the state could compete favourably in national and international examinations. He, therefore, urged community leaders, school administrators, staff and students of OJGS to take ownership of the project and ensure that miscreants did not destroy or cart away the property of the school. The Commissioner for Education, Mrs Folasade Adefisayo, represented by Mrs Oluranti Olagbaju, stated that the school infrastructure projects were evenly distributed across the local government and local council development areas. “There is hardly any school in the state that was not touched by either a new school building, new classroom block, hostels, security structures, school fence, toilets, furniture and boreholes, among others,” she said.    ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com