Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Adedayo Adeoye (retd.), has said the men of the Nigeria Police Force should have spared some of the suspected killers of ex-presidential aide, Ahmed Gulak, to assist them in investigating the murder case. DIG Adeoye stated this in an exclusive interview with The PUNCH on Monday. The PUNCH had earlier reported that gunmen on Sunday morning killed Gulak, in Owerri, the Imo State capital. Gulak was callously murdered while he was on his way to catch a flight at Sam Mbakwe International Cargo Airport, Owerri. The Imo State Police Command subsequently said the killers of the ex-presidential aide were neutralised in a gun duel yesterday. “With further leads, the team was able to establish the location of suspects. The suspects were rounded up at Afor Enyiogugu junction in Aboh-Mbaise Local Government Area. The hoodlums were met distributing onions to locals from a trailer they confiscated. The trailer was loaded with Onions from the Northern region of Nigeria. “On sighting the Police, the hoodlums providing security coverage to those sharing the onions opened fire on the Police teams. The gallant and battle-ready Police Officers swiftly returned the fire. The six hoodlums who carried out the killings and four other members of their gang were fatally injured. Three out of the four vehicles used in attacking Gulak were recovered,” the PPRO in the state, Bala Elkana said in a statement. Commenting on the development, DIG Adeoye said, “The police tried in getting the suspects but maybe they will have spared one or two of the suspects to enable us know what really happened. “Gulak has been controversial in that state. We don’t know what he went to do there, whom he went to meet and how did he come about going about with a public transport? Somebody that is quite close to the Governor? I was thinking the government would have provided a vehicle to drop him with escorts. Unless it was a private visit. “The police should have spared some of the suspects to enable investigation into what really happened.”