THE House of Representatives has called on the Federal Government to suspend plans to conduct a national population census at a time when there are security crises across the country. The House also warned that the headcount during electioneering and coming shortly before the 2023 general elections would subject the exercise to political manipulation. The lawmakers, therefore, called on the government to “suspend the upcoming exercise until security of the country is stabilised.” The House also mandated the relevant committee to “inquire into the work plans of the National Population Commission with regard to the census.” It resolved to “invite the Chairman of the National Population Commission to clarify as to the feasibility of concluding census in the face of insecurity.” These were the resolutions passed by the lawmakers following their unanimous adoption of a motion moved by Mr Shehu Beji. It was titled ‘A motion of urgent public importance calling on the Federal Government of Nigeria to suspend the proposed 2021 population and housing census to be conducted by the National Population Commission in the Federal Republic of Nigeria.’ Beji, while moving the motion, noted that the Federal Government, through the NPC, had commenced preparations for the 2021 population and housing census across the country. However, the lawmaker said, “With the overwhelming security challenges at hand, expecting accuracy in any census conducted now would be like passing an elephant through the eyes of a needle. “In the circumstance where a large chunk of Nigerians have fled their homes, while many others are being held captive by kidnappers, as such, conducting such a census without them means infringing on their constitutional right.” We’ve not said there will be census this year – NPC Meanwhile, the NPC said that it had yet to announce that there would be population census this year. The NPC’s Federal Commissioner and Chairman of the Public Affairs Committee, Mr Abdulmalik Durunguwa, said this in an interview with The PUNCH while reacting to the call by the House of Representatives on the commission to suspend the upcoming exercise. He said, “In the first place, the NPC did not tell anybody or the President did not tell anyone that there is going to be census this year. So, they are talking about something that is not even in the public domain.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com