Premature ovarian failure — also known as primary ovarian insufficiency — is a loss of normal function of your ovaries before age 40. If your ovaries fail, they don’t produce reasonable amounts of the hormone estrogen or release eggs regularly. Infertility is a typical result. A woman who has primary ovarian insufficiency is likely to have irregular or no periods, infertility problems, and menopause-like symptoms. It is difficult, though not impossible, for women who have primary ovarian insufficiency to become pregnant. The term ‘primary ovarian insufficiency’ was first used in 1942 by Fuller Albright, who first described the condition. It affects about one percent of women under the age of 40 years. About five to 10 per cent of women with primary ovarian insufficiency conceive after the diagnosis without medical intervention. Symptoms As defined by the World Health Organisation, ovarian insufficiency can be caused by a primary disorder in the ovary, or it can occur due to secondary causes. Ovarian insufficiency is primary if the ovary fails to function, usually in response to appropriate gonadotropin stimulation provided by the hypothalamus and pituitary. Ovarian insufficiency is secondary if the hypothalamus and pituitary fail to deliver adequate gonadotropin stimulation. Primary ovarian insufficiency (POI),  is characterised by amenorrhea, hypoestrogenism, and elevated serum gonadotropin levels in women younger than 40 years. Although often used as synonyms, POI and menopause are not equivalent. Most women with POI retain intermittent ovarian function for many years, and, unlike women who are menopausal, pregnancies may occur. Signs and symptoms of premature ovarian failure are similar to those of going through menopause and are typical of estrogen deficiency. They include: Irregular or skipped periods (amenorrhea), which might be present for years or develop after a pregnancy or after stopping birth control pills Difficulty conceiving Hot flashes Night sweats Vaginal dryness Irritability or difficulty concentrating Decreased sexual desire If you’ve missed your period for three months or more, see your doctor to help determine the cause. You can lose your period for some reasons — including pregnancy, stress, or a change in diet or exercise habits — but it’s best to get evaluated whenever your menstrual cycle changes. Even if you don’t mind not having periods, it is advisable to see your doctor and find out what’s causing the change. Low estrogen levels can lead to bone loss. Causes In women with normal ovarian function, the pituitary gland releases certain hormones during the menstrual cycle, which causes a small number of egg-containing follicles in the ovaries to begin maturing. Usually, one or two follicles — tiny sacs filled with fluid — reach maturity each month. When the follicle matures, it opens, releasing an egg. The egg enters the fallopian tube, where a sperm cell might fertilize it, resulting in pregnancy. Premature ovarian failure results from the loss of eggs (oocytes). It might happen because of: Chromosomal defects. Specific genetic disorders associated with premature ovarian failure. These include mosaic Turner’s syndrome — in which a woman has only one normal X chromosome and an altered second X chromosome — and fragile X syndrome — in which the X chromosomes are fragile and break. Toxins. Chemotherapy and radiation therapy are the most common causes of toxin-induced ovarian failure. These therapies can damage the genetic material in cells. Other environmental toxins such as cigarette smoke, chemicals, petrochemical pesticides, and viruses might hasten ovarian failure. Experience has shown that some workers in the oil and gas industries and the oil producing regions may suffer from POI. The environmental toxins are described as Endocrine Disrupting Chemicals (EDC). Immune system response to ovarian tissue (autoimmune disease). In this condition, the immune system produces antibodies against your ovarian tissue in this rare form, harming the egg-containing follicles and damaging the egg. The factors that trigger the immune response are unclear, but exposure to a virus is one possibility. Unknown factors; It is possible to develop premature ovarian failure but have no known chromosomal defects, toxin exposure, or autoimmune disease. Your doctor might recommend further testing to find the cause, but in most cases, the cause remains unknown (idiopathic). Why does it occur? According to Vincent Pellegrini, MD in Endocrinology, November 2016, POI is, in reality, a continuum of disorders. Dividing the continuum of ovarian insufficiency into four clinical states is the preferred method to facilitate explanation. These states are not permanent. Patients may move from one state to another in an unpredictable manner. In some cases, a healthy ovarian function may even return for a period. Occult primary ovarian insufficiency presents unexplained infertility in a patient with a normal basal serum follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) level. These patients have an inexplicable failure to respond adequately to FSH therapy during attempts at superovulation. Next, on the continuum, biochemical primary ovarian insufficiency presents as unexplained infertility in patients with an elevated basal serum FSH level. In this clinical situation, patients also fail to respond adequately to FSH therapy during attempts at superovulation. Overt primary ovarian insufficiency is the clinical condition that has previously been referred to as premature ovarian failure or early menopause. This clinical state has elevated basal serum FSH levels in association with disordered menstrual cycles, as demonstrated by oligomenorrhea, polymenorrhea, or metrorrhagia. …to be continued Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com