I have regularly said that states have so much power even as the constitution stands but they don’t utilise a fraction of it. Since the states are docile in this aspect, the Federal Government continues to set up agencies, thus grabbing more powers for itself. Now, some measures taken by the Lagos State Government are challenging the trend. Recently, the state approved a law which creates an agency that can investigate financial crimes and corruption cases involving the finances of the Lagos State Government. To me, with this measure, two things have happened. One, a component unit in Nigeria is steadily returning to, and continuing from where the “boys in khaki”, in 1966, stagnated the development of the powers of Nigeria’s component units and the strengthening of our federal system. Two, Lagos State takes back powers that it should have but which the “boys in khaki” once gave to the Federal Government, and which it doesn’t want to give back for all manner of reasons known to only to those who keep the pot in Abuja. Note that these pot keepers aren’t the politicians whose tenures elapse and they go. Rather, it’s the group that enjoys the largesse which a bloated Federal Government provides people who sit around the pot from where the largesse is distributed. According to the new legislation, this Lagos State equivalent of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission will “take over the investigation of all anti-corruption and financial crime cases involving the finances and assets of Lagos State Government being investigated by any other agency.”  Several meanings have been insinuated as the purpose of this law. One insinuation is that the Lagos State Government wants to provide a cover for the ruling party’s National Leader and former governor of Lagos State, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who’s reportedly being investigated by the EFCC. Something must happen for something to happen. If this law successfully shows the FG that it cannot continue to arrogate all powers to itself, any insinuation whatsoever for creating this agency means nothing to me. Incidentally, breaking the FG’s hold on so much power was a process that Tinubu started in 1999 as governor, standing up to Abuja, divesting it of some of its humongous powers. Each of his successors continued with the trend. Should Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu’s efforts here be judged differently? I applaud this action by Lagos State. Why? Since 1999, the state has consistently been using legal means that the Federal Government cannot fault to take its powers back. I see in this the good that is in it for the nation when component units adopt legal instruments to take back powers which the Federal Government hijacked in 1966. When the keepers of the pot in Abuja persuaded former President Olusegun Obasanjo to hold on to the funds that belonged to Lagos, the state government at the time simply stared the FG in the face. Lagos State won in court with regard to some of the measures it said it had concurrent powers to take. Lagos helps demystify the constitution which the pot keepers in Abuja often quote, making everyone believe the FG should have everything and the states should live at its mercy. How many of these measures that Lagos undertook since 1999 to help take powers back from the FG shall we count? There was that insistence after 1999 that Lagos State had the right to create new local government councils, because the LGAs are primarily its responsibility. The pot keepers in Abuja knew one of the leashes they used to exercise control beyond the FCT was threatened by that measure. They should have taken the matter to court. They knew they would lose. Moreover, rather than get the National Assembly to undo that part which had the number of the LGAs specifically stated in the constitution, the pot keepers in Abuja used the then President to state that by creating more local government councils Lagos State breached the constitution. There was also that occasion when Lagos State said the FG should keep its Federal Roads Safety Corps officials off its state-owned roads, that it could do the same job using its own agency. It also said it had the concurrent powers to issue Driving Licence as well as make car number plates. Abuja ferociously fought Lagos State over these measures too but they lost. Now that the same state says if an offence of looting of public funds is committed in its domain, it wants an agency within its territory to investigate it, after all it’s the state’s funds not FG’s. But some are saying the state has no powers to set up an agency that can investigate cases of looting and the recovery of funds that belong to it. They quote that section of the constitution which says any law made by the state which is inconsistent with that of the FG is null and void. Some people shall soon tell us we can eat, but we mustn’t drink water because the FG’s powers forbid it. Does it not go without saying that if a state’s funds are looted, it should be able to recover such, and it should have the wherewithal to be able to do so? Why would a state need the FG to have its looted funds recovered for it? Is it written in the constitution that a state cannot set up an agency needed to recover its funds? It’s the duty of the state to ensure the security of lives and property of its residents. On that ground alone, the setting up of an agency to recover public funds meant to be utilised for this purpose is justified. I believe this will be the view of Their Lordships too if Lagos State chooses to pursue that line of argument in court. But it doesn’t need to. Just a few points of law in the constitution regarding other aspects of the FG-State concurrent power relations are enough to fell the FG in court. Brilliant legal minds in Lagos State understand what I mean. I state my view here as anyone with Political Science background who happens to breathe journalism would. No political scientist would fail to admit that the “boys in khaki” did us such a great harm. We had a federal arrangement pre-1966 that could have led us to high places, if its imperfections and challenges at the time had been allowed to work themselves out as it’s always the case in every nation. But the “boys in khaki” arrived and gave to the FG powers that were initially negotiated and allotted to the component units at the 1951 and 1954 Constitutional Conferences. Now that some pot keepers see in this the advantage for themselves, they won’t allow powers to return to where they were taken. The component units have thus become the FG’s mere appendages.  But they were once powerful units – West, North, and East – where energies were deployed in a competitive manner such that Nigeria as a federation was scoring first on many fronts. That kind of drive, competitiveness in the regions was never matched by the FG, not even after  the “boys in khaki” took over in 1966. The trend has continued since 1999. The FG gathers more powers for itself, but does nothing remarkable except the remarkable looting of funds in departments and agencies that we hear of every day. As for the component units where competition and the energy deployed to outdo others could collectively move Nigeria forward, they’ve been decimated. Yet, pot keepers who encourage centralisation of agencies such as the FRSC, the EFCC, police force, a phoney Peace Corps etc, in Abuja don’t see the shackles this means for this diverse nation. They don’t because the status quo serves their pockets. Yet, the same pot keepers – from all tribes and religions – would return to their different communities to insult tribes other than theirs, claiming they are the cause of all of Nigeria’s problems. A Yoruba saying has it that it’s not with ease one takes nut out of a palm kernel. Lagos State shouldn’t blink. Other states will follow. Meanwhile, Nigerians should let this law serve its purpose first. That is, show pot keepers that they cannot continue to arrogate all powers to the FG to the detriment of this federation. As for the insinuation that the law serves only Tinubu, we’ll jaw-jaw over it too when we get to the spot. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com