Dear Mummy Temilolu, You’ve made so much impact on my life since I stumbled on your articles. I was also a virgin until I got into the university and I lost it to a liar! Mummy, please don’t stop telling us the truth about virginity! The guy that deflowered me is married now with kids, but I’m still single. He came to me after he got married saying he’s not happy in his marriage and that he wants us to have a nice time together with a lot of gifts for me but I turned him down! Even before I saw your posts, I’ve been keeping myself. Thank you ma for telling us the truth that some of our parents won’t tell us believing we are grown up enough to be giving them money they don’t even know its source. Thank you so much ma. Abosede Dear Aunty Temilolu, I am 27 years old, an HND holder and still a virgin but my life is nothing to write home about. I have had only one boyfriend in my life and he insults me that I have no vision as he has a better life than me. Please ma, write an article on innocent girls who had a poor upbringing and don’t know what to do with their lives. How they can get help to get well-trained to attract the right suitors. Funmilola My darling angelic Funmilola and other wonderfully-wonderful girls who have chosen to fear God rather than please their flesh and the world, I couldn’t help but shake my head as I read your message Funmilola. How can a human-being make you feel so unworthy? You an uncommon and most priceless jewel, fantastically-blessed amongst women! How come you don’t even recognise who you are and what you carry? The fact that you can even brood over someone who doesn’t think much of you is cringe-worthy? I’m sorry but I have to ask- “who is he by the way and by the bush?” Any carnal-minded person reading would say I’m over-flogging sexual purity! Hmm…what a world! If only the average human knew the risk and ridicule they subject themselves to opening up and sharing their lives “anyhow.” But sadly, the devil, the headmaster of the world has got into their heads-mind and soul! May God illuminate the heart of someone reading but whether that happens or not, I won’t stop preaching this and saving as many girls as possible from peril and arming them against a satanically-patriarchal society! Funmilola, may God forgive you for saying your life is nothing to write home about! Before biblical Mary’s conception, was she ever known? She was just a simple girl betrothed to a carpenter! What about Esther before she became a queen? She was an orphan and the only relative she had was an uncle whom the Bible recorded always sat at the gate. Yet, God found them worthy to be used by Him and transformed their lives beyond human comprehension! I bet your life isn’t as low as theirs was before their eternal fame! Now tell me, if you believe in God and He has been there for you over the years, is there anything God won’t do for you for choosing to obey Him? I repeat- may God forgive you for saying your life is nothing to write home about! Whaaaaaat??? With all the power and glory you carry? May your ignorance and spiritual dullness not kick you out of God’s incredibly-grand design for your life! Before I write on your request, please detach yourself from that boyfriend of yours immediately and get ready for the best days of your life! I shall address your request in my next article. May God show you a sample of the rewards of obedience and let it manifest in your life before then in Jesus name! Let me add this- I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @ Okeowo Temilolu. Are you still engaging in pre-marital sex? Each act devalues you! Your wonders are waiting to start. God is waiting for you to become a secondary virgin! You are most welcome on board the chastity campaign train and Girls Club is open for all girls and ladies. Please text your name, age, school or occupation and state of domicile to 07086620576. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com