After two weeks of excitement, the theatre week for the music reality TV show, Nigerian Idol season 6, recently came to an end as the judges finally selected the 11 contestants who would be battling it out in the finals. Initially, 68 contestants were selected for the theatre week, but after a series of tests and performances, only 11 scaled through. During the second theatre week, contestants were assessed on the strength of their voice and their overall stage performance.  This brought the dreams of many of the contestants to an end as the judges felt they were either not strong enough to compete or had shown little to no improvement in the past week. Producer, songwriter and singer, Winning, was among those whose journeys were cut short.  His personality and charisma had earned him a spot in the theatre week, but unfortunately, he was unable to wow the judges again. Agbutun Agbalaya had also shown lots of promise, but his last individual performance was not good enough. However, 16-year-old Comfort Alalade showed great improvement from last week and was rewarded with a spot in the final. The judges were continuously amazed by her voice and performance. Akunna was also lucky to make it into the finals. Although she lost her voice right before the performance, she still went ahead to give a great performance. Her determination and resilience landed her a spot in the finals alongside Kingdom Kroseide, Clinton, Beyonce, Faith, Dotun, Francis and Emmanuel. After these nine were chosen, it was a battle between Daniel and Faith Mac on who would land the last spot into the finals. However, in a shocking twist, both Daniel and Faith Mac made it to the finals making the total number of contestants heading the big stage 11 instead of the usual top 10. Next week, the real battle begins as all 11 of them start the final journey to becoming the Nigerian Idol. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com