IT was a black weekend in parts of Benue State as suspected herders in connivance with local bandits killed over 100 people in Katsina Ala Local Government Area of Benue State. Katsina Ala is one of the three local government areas that make up the troubled Sankera axis in the northern part of the state. The attack, according to locals in the areas affected, started on Saturday and continued till Sunday, while others said that the killings were still ongoing. The Chairman of Katsina Ala LGA, Alfred Atera, who confirmed the attack and the casualty figure, noted that four council wards were affected in the attack. He identified the council wards as Yoyo, Utang, Mbatyu/mberev and Mbayongo. “More than 100 people at different places have been killed since the attack on Saturday. The Gana remnants are conniving with them (suspected herdsmen) to cause the havoc and unrest in our area,” Atera said. Atera further said that troops were overwhelmed, saying, “The attackers have developed a strategy; they are not attacking one place. If they attack in Kwando now, the next thing you hear is that they are attacking Yoyo and at the same time, they were attacking Utange.” When contacted, the Commander of Operations Whirl Stroke, Brig. Gen. Clement Akpere, said the narrative given was wrong and asked our correspondent to call the Katsina Ala council chairman. When informed of earlier conversation with the council chairman, Akpere only said, “Just call him now, I just spoke with the chairman; the narrative is not true.” Also, the state command spokesperson, Catherine Anene, said she had yet to receive the report. Defend yourselves, Ortom tells Benue people Meanwhile, the Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, has reiterated his call on the people of the state to defend themselves as the killings in the state continued unabated. Ortom renewed the call on Sunday at an interdenominational church service organised by the Christian Association of Nigeria at the Chapel of Grace in Government House, Makurdi, to round off a seven-day prayer and fasting programme for peace in the state. Ortom said, “I’ll no longer announce the deaths of those killed by Fulani herdsmen; rise up and defend yourselves with weapons not prohibited by law, bows and arrows, spears, knives, and similar ones.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com