Joint security operatives on Thursday night killed no fewer than eight hoodlums after they resisted an attack on Orlu Divisional Police Headquarters in Imo state from unknown gunmen. Also, the joint security operatives recovered seven vehicles the attackers came in for the operation. Our correspondent gathered that the gun battle between the gunmen and the security operatives lasted several hours, as the military sent reinforcement from the 34 artillery brigade, Obinze, in Owerri. The gun duel created an atmosphere of panic, as people scampered for safety, as the Roads in Orlu town and its environs were deserted. A resident of the area who preferred not to be mentioned told our correspondent that “we slept with our hearts in our hands last night”. He said an Armoured Personnel Carrier was allegedly set ablaze at Umuna junction in Orlu town. He also disclosed that one of his cousins was hit by a stray bullet. The Police Spokesperson in the state, Orlando Ikeokwu, could not be reached but a senior police officer confirmed the development to our correspondent. The senior police officer told The PUNCH that the corpses of the hoodlums and their vehicles had been brought to the state police command headquarters in Owerri. He disclosed that the police divisional headquarters was not razed neither did any security officer killed in the attack. The source said, “We successfully repelled an attempt to raze Orlu Divisional Police Headquarters last night. The hoodlums came in multiple vehicles and sophisticated weapons and asault riffles. They were repelled and eight of them were gun down and with seven vehicles belonging to them recovered. “Their corpses and seven vehicles belonging to them had been conveyed to Imo state police command headquarters in Owerri. As I speak to you now, they are with us. You need to see their charms and other things hanging on their necks. “It was a big war. The gun battle lasted for hours but our men made up of the police, military and air force overpowered them. They were denied access into the police station premises. Eight of them were killed and seven vehicles recovered while others fled.” The PUNCH reports that the attack came just few hours a new Commissioner of Police, Abutu Yaro, assumed office in the state with an assurance to the residents of the state that he would resist further attacks on Police formations and killings of cops in the state.