This columnist offers no apologies about returning now and again to the burning subject of insecurity given that it remains very much on the front burner of national concern, safety, survival, and discourse. True, there has been a little recession in the pace and velocity of banditry, kidnapping especially of schoolchildren, undergraduates, and associated activities while the police perennially underequipped had been able to avert some incidence of kidnapping. Nonetheless, what is going on is frightening enough, abnormal enough to warrant attention considering that they are feeding into widespread fears that the worst may not be over. Only on Tuesday, to illustrate the trend, a judge, Hussaini Samaila, was abducted on the court premises in Katsina State, while the very next day, bandits burnt an Assemblies of God church sending eight innocent people to an untimely death. A final example which provides the jump-off point for this write-up is the report that the military has denied the presence of Boko Haram in some communities in Niger State, at the same time as another account has it that several communities in the occupied areas are paying ransom to broker peace with the invaders. (see, for example, The PUNCH, Friday April 30, 2021). News of a terrifying nature is often travelling below official attitudes that range from denial of verified events through undignified silence to tepid assurances that there is no real danger. So, a popular preacher and founder of House on the Rock church tells his flock in a message that has gone viral that they should have a Plan B which should include leaving Nigeria in the event that the worst is about to happen. Side by side with the panic and uncertainty produced by such warnings, government spokespersons are almost incommunicado for the most part maintaining deafening silence or taking refuge in such clichés as “Nigerian unity is not negotiable”. Human rights lawyer, Femi Falana SAN, recently called on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to end or at least interrupt his customary reticence and address the nation in a broadcast as a way of levelling with the people. So far, there is no sign that this is about to happen. What is emerging therefore is a dreadful communication gap between government, and civil society over the future of Nigeria with the widening chasm filled by rumours, conspiracy theories and apprehensions concerning a hidden agenda to unleash terror or lay captive all those who refuse to submit to a particular religion or ethnic group. No doubt, the Nigerian nation, a multi-ethnic and multi-religious contraption has existed for long on tenterhooks often lurching towards the brink and pulling back when it appears that all hope is lost. But the drama being enacted currently is a scary one indeed because of the possibility that the brakes may then not be applied at the very brink with the consequence that the country may fall into the abyss. To take a recent instance, the Southern Governors’ Forum met in Asaba, Delta State  recently, and proactively demanded restructuring of the federation. They had hardly returned to their different states when contrary voices denouncing them erupted from such quarters as the Senate President, Dr. Ahmed Lawan,  who came a little short of calling them traitors. In other words, there is little or no chance that restructuring will happen or at any time soon as far as the government is concerned. Even the efforts of civil society activists and individuals such as elder statesman Afe Babalola to convene such a conference at their own expense were scoffed at or met with intimidating tactics. In all of these, the gap between a government burying itself in denial of what appears to be a clear national emergency, and a society increasingly frightened out of its wits, living down the brunt of an ever-ascending inflationary upswing, uncertain of the future, widens. To put it clearly and bluntly, there needs to be clear answers to puzzles about whether what is playing out is the consequence of incompetence or is a calibrated and deliberate agenda to create a skewed playing field for ethnic and religious domination or possible conquest. Let us explore for a while the factors of incompetence and possibly orchestrated agenda as twin drivers of insecurity. Beginning with incompetence, who was not alarmed when earlier this week, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, revealed that only nine per cent of the total budgetary allocation to the Nigerian Armed Forces is spent on the purchase of equipment? Said Gbajabiamila, “Appropriation records show that about 91% of the current funding to the Armed Forces go on recurrent overheads, salaries and welfare, leaving only nine per cent for capital purchases”. It remains to be seen whether the proposed bill on the Armed Forces Support Trust Fund will remedy this dire gap. Whether it does so or not, we are let into one of the crucial reasons why the military is underperforming and why the country has become a killing field for bandits, kidnappers, insurgents and the like. Corruption apart, Gbajabiamila’s revelation fingers a yawning gap in infrastructure for security institutions and why Boko Haram operating sometimes as bandits appears to be better armed. Of course, there are other dimensions of incompetence but worse than incompetence are possibilities of sabotage, disloyalty, friendly fire, and the presumption that incompetence may be feigned to produce deliberate outcomes. In one of my recent columns,   I drew attention to a post on the platform of the Nigerian Political Science Association (South-West) where Buhari only in 2013 openly defended Boko Haram, castigating former President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration for descending with force on the insurgents while treating the Niger Delta militants with kid gloves. My reason for doing this was to elicit a possible denial from the presidency about what appears to be an overly sympathetic statement by Buhari to the cause of Boko Haram. There was no such luck leaving open the question of the exact attitude/posture of top political leaders to the nation’s number one enemy, Boko Haram. This is especially so in the wake of the Pantami saga in which the presidency openly defended the Minister of Communications and Digital Economy, Isa Pantami, whose linkage to international terrorist organisations two decades ago became public. In that example, the presidency brushed aside the public outcry and outrage that it was necessary to relieve the minister of his sensitive position, not least because he was already on the watch list of the intelligence service of the United States and because there is a need to be sensitive to the fragile fabric of a multi-religious nation. By way of counselling, government should close the gap between it and society as well as work more to allay the fears, currently pervasive, that behind the worsening insecurity is a calculated schema to prepare the ground for the weakening or possible capture of particular faiths and or ethnic groups.  That is not enough, Buhari should urgently address the nation, empathise more with those who have had to mourn their dead or traumatised relations. Finally, communication strategies should be put in place to defuse the growing tensions and fears that a slide to war may be the outcome of so much violence done to the Nigerian foundation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com