The Court of Appeal on Friday has set aside the conviction of four companies that were allegedly linked by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission to Dr. Waripamo Dudafa, associate of the former president, Goodluck Jonathan. The EFCC had asserted that the companies were in possession of funds that purportedly belonged to the wife of the former president, Patience Jonathan. As a result, the EFCC had arrested and charged Dr. Dudafa and Amajuoyi Briggs, who was secretary to all the companies, Demola Bolodeoku, a bank official, and the companies to court on a 15-count charge. Mike Ozekhome, SAN, who was the counsel to the companies made the judgment known in a statement issued to pressmen, adding that it was delivered during a Zoom session. According to the statement, Ozekhome had challenged the pleas of guilt at the trial in the Federal High Court but the plea was refused. He said the “In a well-considered case, the Court of Appeal set aside the conviction of Transocean Property & Investment Company Ltd, Seagate Property Development & Investment Company Ltd, Pluto Property & Investment Company Ltd, and Avalon Global Property Development Company Limited made by Hon. Justice Babs Kuewumi on 2nd day of November 2016. “The convictions of the four companies were held to be nullity having being done in gross disregard of the statutory and constitutional provisions.” The Court of Appeal ruled that the conviction of the four companies violated the constitutional provision of fair hearing as the guilt of the appellant was yet to be determined before the conviction was made. Hon. Justice C. N. Uwa read the lead judgment and Justices Tunde Awotoye Abundaga agreed with the lead judgment. Present at the virtual court sitting were Ige Asemudara, Ejieke Onuoha, and Azubuike Solomon Akpe appearing for the appellants, while Rotimi Oyedepo and A.O. Mohammed appeared for the respondents. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com