On Tuesday, May 11, 2021, Southern Governors’ Forum made up of three political parties namely, the All Progressives Congress, the Peoples Democratic Party and the All Progressives Grand Alliance met in Asaba, the Delta State capital and issued a 12-point communiqué which has been widely tagged, ‘Asaba Declaration’. Of the 17 southern states, 13 governors were in attendance at the meeting. They are Governor Ifeanyi Okowa (Delta), Dr Kayode Fayemi (Ekiti), Nyesom Wike (Rivers), Godwin Obaseki (Edo), Dapo Abiodun (Ogun), Seyi Makinde (Oyo), and Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos). Others are Douye Diri (Bayelsa), Okezie Ikpeazu (Abia), Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi (Enugu), Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo), David Umahi (Ebonyi), and Willie Obiano (Anambra). Imo and Akwa Ibom states were represented by their deputy governors, while Osun and Cross Rivers states were absent. In a communiqué read by the Forum’s Chairman, Akeredolu, the governors expressed displeasure with the worsening state of insecurity and noted that the situation revolves around agitations over restructuring, but affirmed that the peoples of Southern Nigeria remain committed to the unity of the country. The governors stressed that the unity of Nigeria should be “on the basis of justice, fairness, equity and oneness and peaceful co-existence between and among its peoples with a focus on the attainment of shared goals for economic development and prosperity. “The progress of the nation requires that urgent and bold steps be taken to restructure the Nigerian federation to berth evolution of state police, review of revenue allocation formula in favour of the sub-national governments and creation of other institutions, which legitimately advance commitment to and practice of true federalism. The Federal Government should convoke a national dialogue as a matter of urgency, based on the widespread agitations among various peoples for greater inclusiveness in existing governance arrangements.” The meeting noted that in deference to the sensitivities of our various peoples, there is (a) need to review appointments into Federal Government agencies, including security agencies to reflect federal character as Nigeria’s overall population is heterogeneous. While the governors resolved to foster cooperation among the Southern states and the nation at large, they expressed concern over the continued gridlock on the Oshodi-Apapa Expressway, particularly the “chokehold it has exerted on the nation’s economy being the sole outlet from Apapa Wharf. The meeting, therefore, recommended the activation and establishment of ports in other states of the federation to create new jobs and promote socio-economic activities in the country.” Since the communiqué was issued, there have been widespread commendation from the southern caucus of Senate and House of Representatives as well as the APC leadership in the South-West. In fact, on May 17, 2021, the Forum of PDP Governors at the end of its meeting, held at the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture, Ibadan, Oyo State, chaired by Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State, issued a six-point communiqué, where it insisted that ranching be adopted as permanent solution to the herder-farmer clashes in the country. The governors also reiterated the call for restructuring and called on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to summon a meeting of the Nigeria Police Council and devolve more powers to states to douse the tension in the country and curb insecurity bedevilling it. The meeting equally charged the National Assembly to immediately amend the constitution to give effect to devolution of powers and state policing. Among the PDP northern governors in attendance were,  Samuel Ortom (Benue State), Ahmadu Umaru Fintiri (Adamawa), Bala Mohammed (Bauchi) and Aminu Tambuwal (Sokoto). While many have lauded the patriotic and bold actions of the Southern governors, there are still pockets of dissension as exemplified by the position of the Attorney-General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, who condemned the ban on open grazing as unconstitutional and lambasted the governors for calling for restructuring when they refused to grant local government, state Houses of Assembly and Judiciary financial autonomy. Malami, who spoke on Channels Television’s Politics Today Programme on Wednesday, May 19, 2021 said the decision of the governors “does not align with the provisions of the Constitution, hence it does not hold water. According to him, “For example: it is as good as saying, perhaps, maybe, the northern governors coming together to say they prohibit spare parts trading in the north. Does it hold water? This position of the AGF is quite unfortunate. How can you be comparing apple with oranges? Do those who trade in spare parts rove around the country as the herders do? Do the spare parts sellers not rent and pay taxes to government where they do business? Do the spare part traders constitute public nuisance and security threats that some of the criminal herders have constituted to public safety and security? President Muhammadu Buhari on Monday, May 24, 2021 also seem to share same thought with his AGF when in a press release signed by his Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu he chastised the governors for playing politics with the issue and issuing ban that is of questionable legality though he has officially agreed to ranching. He said work for the full actualisation of the modern reserve system in a few of the consenting states should take off in June 2021. It appears the President and Malami did not know that it was the Northern governors who first unanimously called for ban on open grazing. In a communiqué issued on Tuesday, February 9, 2021, after their virtual meeting the previous day, the forum headed by Governor Simon Lalong of Plateau State noted as follows: “The current system of herding mainly through open grazing is no longer sustainable, in view of growing urbanisation and population of the country.  Consequently, it resolved to sensitise herders to the need to adopt new methods of herding, either by ranching or other acceptable modern methods. It appealed to the Federal Government to support states with grants to directly undertake pilot projects of modern livestock production. The governors called on political leaders to isolate criminality and social groups in their domains with a view to treating criminals like criminals.” Even Kano State governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, has called for the ban on open grazing. Business Day of Saturday, March 27, 2021 reported that the governor disclosed that his administration had been able to stem the tide of banditry by establishing a ranching culture in the state. He said, “We are building a RUGA settlement in Samsosua forest, our border with Katsina, and we have succeeded in curtailing the effect of banditry in that area. So, we are building many houses, constructing a dam, establishing cattle artificial insemination centre. We are establishing a veterinary clinic and already, we have started building houses for herdsmen.” Ganduje advocated the proscription of nomadic herding which features the movement or trekking of herdsmen from the north to the Middle Belt and southern part of Nigeria. “There should be a law that will ban it, otherwise, we cannot control the conflicts between herdsmen and farmers and cannot control the cattle rustling which is affecting us greatly,” he said. Perhaps, the President and his Attorney General are also ignorant of the unanimous decision of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum to ban open grazing. The media reported that at the NGF virtual meeting on February 11, 2021, 36 state governors agreed by consensus to end nomadic cattle rearing in the country in order to end the incessant violent clashes between farmers and herders. In the communiqué of the governors, it was categorically stated that: “Following an update from governors on the various initiatives taken by state governments to address the rising insecurity in the country due to the   activities of herdsmen, members reached a consensus on the need for the country to transition into modern systems of animal husbandry that will replace open, night and underage   grazing in the country.” It was further stated that: “State   governments are encouraged to put in place systems to accelerate the grazing initiative of the National Livestock Transformation Plan and ranching in the country.” However, the Forum urged state governments to respect “the right of abode of all Nigerians and strongly condemns criminality and the ethnic profiling of crime in the country in an effort to frame the widespread banditry and the herders’ /farmers crisis.” According to the human rights lawyer, Femi Falana, SAN, the decision of all the   governors to ban open grazing is in line with Section 1 of the Land Use Act which has vested the entire land in every state in the governors on behalf of the people. Accordingly, any person or corporate body that wishes to use land in any state is required to apply for a certificate of occupancy issued by the governor. In the same vein, the power to approve the physical planning of the land in every state is the exclusive responsibility of state governors.  Furthermore, forest reserves owned by state governments are equally regulated by laws enacted by the Houses of Assembly. Under such laws, it is stipulated that it is a criminal offence to occupy any part of such a reserve without authorisation of the state government. Where then lies the “questionable legality” being referred to by the Presidency? I am of the considered view that now that the president has reluctantly agreed to banning open grazing, the Southern Governors should move to work with the federal government to assiduously implement the other 11 resolutions of the ‘Asaba Declaration’. Already, the National Assembly is organising public hearings on constitutional reforms in 12 centres across the country on May 26 and 27, 2021. That is, today and tomorrow. This is a golden opportunity for the governors as well as other pressure and interest groups to present memoranda at the public hearings. This is a golden opportunity to walk the talk! Follow me on Twitter @jideojong Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com