The wife of the Lagos State Governor, Dr Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu, has stressed the need for sanitation and security in Lagos markets. Sanwo-Olu stated this at a seminar held at Ikorodu on market sanitation and security for market leaders, organised by the Committee of Wives of Lagos State Officials, in partnership with the Ministry of Local Government and Community Affairs. She said, “The seminar was initially held in Alausa, Ikeja, but we thought it right to take the event to different locations by reaching out to the people more effectively, and that is why we are in Ikorodu today. I must say I am very impressed with Ikorodu with regards to the level of cleanliness.” She called on market women in the state to take precautionary measures towards securing their property in and around the market places, observe cleanliness as a guard against the spread of diseases and observe safety in handling electrical outlets. “ I just want to add that each and every one of us in the markets should be security conscious. The safety of the next person to us is as important as is our own safety. We must look out for one another. “Also, sanitation is of utmost importance. This will help prevent any outbreak of diseases and possible pandemics. Safety must be uppermost in our hearts, even as we ensure that all electrical outlets, plugs and sockets are properly attended to before we leave for home each day. Let us also remember that security is everybody’s business. We must also remember to be law abiding at all times,” she said. The Commissioner of the Environment, Mr Tunji Bello, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry, Mrs Belinda Oyeneye, advised market women to ensure they improve on personal hygiene and ensure that the market environment was clean at all times. “The sorting of dirt and various refuse in the market has now become money spinning. The waste-to-wealth’ initiative of the state government is on course and everyone must leverage on the initiative,” he added. The Commissioner for Local Government and Community Affairs, Dr Wale Ahmed, reiterated the commitment of the present administration to ensuring security of life and property in Lagos markets. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com