SIX years into its tenure, the Muhammadu Buhari regime has yet to disentwine itself from the corruption-ridden budgeting culture it inherited in 2015. BudgIT, a tech-centred social advocacy NGO, laid bare this long-standing phenomenon again in its analysis of the 2021 budget of N13.6 trillion. Just like under preceding administrations, hundreds of projects running into billions of naira have been duplicated in the 2021 Appropriation Act. At a time of acute revenue shortfall and sluggish growth instigated by the COVID-19 pandemic and the state’s stranglehold on the economy, the Buhari regime and the National Assembly should have instilled greater diligence before endorsing such a shoddy, sleazy document. For most of the Fourth Republic, the Nigerian economy has not benefitted from sound budget-making. Implementation is another farce altogether. The 2021 budget, although it is 26 per cent larger than that of 2020 of N10.8 trillion, is not much different. This is a shame, particularly now that inflation has climbed steadily to 18.17 per cent. Instead of rigour and mettle, indolence and rot define the budget. BudgIT identified at least 316 project duplications in the Act. In total, this costs the taxpayers N39.5 billion. This is alarming. According to the investigation, 115 of the 316 duplicated projects were traced to the Federal Ministry of Health. Since February 2020, Nigeria – much like the rest of the world – has been battling to stem the coronavirus plague. The health ministry, which is leading the fight against the virus, should have been given a priority. It was not, as the N45 billion earmarked for COVID-19 vaccines is excluded. Conversely, the total allocation to the ministry was 4.4 per cent in 2021. That is 4.0 per cent less than in 2020 and lesser than the last five-year average of 5.0 per cent. From this, it is abundantly clear that the Buhari regime places little emphasis on public health. For the President, it is enough if he can travel for medical tourism to cater to his own health. Worse, huge funds were allocated to some Ministries, Departments and Agencies for capital projects that they do not have the expertise to execute. Two of such will suffice. The National Agriculture Seed Council received N400 million to construct solar streetlights in the six geopolitical zones. The Federal College of Forestry, based in Ibadan, Oyo State, also received N50 million to construct streetlights in Edo State. This is plainly illogical. An MDA based in Oyo State constructing streetlights in Edo State? What of the ministry for rural electrification? It is the depth of executive farce and parliamentary rascality. Heads should roll over this to prevent these aberrations. Incidentally, the annual vote for defence has been rising sharply under the pretext of providing security. In 2021, defence received a vote of N1.97 trillion or an increase of 14 per cent from the N1.78 trillion allocated in 2020. That is huge. Despite this growth, insecurity has yet to abate; instead, it is escalating. In total, N10.02 trillion has been allocated to security between 2015 and 2021, according to BudgIT. But the military has no weapons to fight the Boko Haram insurgents and bandits terrorising the country. A major concern is that in the 2021 budget, 117 MDAs received allocations for ‘security votes’ worth N24.3 billion. Having already received separate allocations to cover their security charges, this is ludicrous. Higher defence spending translates to reduced funds for infrastructure renewal, health, education, and other social services. But this is a time to get real about the economy, especially with the pandemic throwing all calculations overboard. At N4.7 trillion, borrowing is 12 per cent higher in 2021. With the government short of income, debt servicing in 2021 is 13 per cent higher than in 2020. Overall, national debt has climbed to N32.9 trillion or 34.98 per cent of GDP in 2020. It was 29.10 per cent in 2019. Combined with an allocation of 24.5 per cent of the total budget to debt servicing, the economy is experiencing massive fiscal distortion. Conversely, the 1998 United Kingdom Code for Fiscal Stability, among others, allows that government to borrow only to cover net investment and not recurrent expenditure. The blame for the unwholesome replication of projects goes directly to the executive and the legislature. On assumption of office, the Buhari regime promised to reduce the duplication by switching to zero budgeting, as against the envelope system. That is mere rhetoric. It persists with the envelope system, a lazy way of just increasing budgetary vote annually without considering the critical needs in the economy. In this, unspent budgetary votes of the MDAs are unaccounted for in most cases. During the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidency, a minister was prosecuted for mismanaging the unspent funds. This is a major issue in the Third World, where the government plays an overbearing role in national life. As such, the other arms of government play a subservient role, a system that runs contrary to modern ethos. The National Assembly, whose main duty is to look after the people’s money, compounds the executive’s recklessness in several ways. It abnegates this core role to preserve its self-interest. Hiding under “constituency projects,” lawmakers capriciously incorporate unapproved projects into the budget. When the executive rightly declines, the NASS masks its arrogance with blackmail, claiming that the executive is undermining it as an independent arm of government. Explaining the fraud, the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), said NASS received N1 trillion for constituency projects in the 10 years to 2019 “but the impact can hardly be seen.” Lawmakers recklessly hijack constituency projects for personal aggrandisement; bribe-for-budget is rampant. The lawmakers have turned oversight functions into a goldmine. The NASS should make a difference by putting personal interests aside. It should undertake holistic oversight investigations of budget implementation by the executive, diligently scrutinise budget documents, insist on financial rectitude and refuse to approve duplications. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com