The Special Adviser on Education to Lagos State Governor,  Mr Tokunbo Wahab, has said tertiary institutions in the state are experiencing progressive growth due to the integration of technology with the education system. Wahab who made this remark in a statement to mark his 49th birthday on Monday, said the Lagos State University was rated as the second best University in Nigeria, saying that under the Sanwo-Olu-led administration,  it ranked among the best 600 institutions globally. “It is a testament of the growing researches and academic excellence in the institution.  I promise to use the occasion of my birthday to thank God and double my efforts to build a better nation through my office under the Governor Sanwo Olu-led administration. The state government’s reforms of critical sectors  especially  education has continued to yield positive results, the impact  of  education and technology as an important component  of the T.H.E.M.E.S agenda are currently been felt in institutions of learning across Lagos.” He also called for an end to insecurity, kidnapping, banditry and other criminalities plaguing the nation. He advised Nigerians irrespective of ethnic and religious beliefs to unite as well as co-exist peacefully to build a strong and viable nation that could compete effectively with other countries. Wahab called on Nigerians, especially political leaders to shelve their party affiliations and urgently come together to find a lasting solution to insecurity before it degenerated into a difficult situation. “Nigeria is blessed with abundant  natural resources, best human resources you can think of, people of sound minds and great intellects whose talents and creativity must be fully utilised to the nation’s advantage. Our diversities  should be our strong weapon for development and greater economic productivity, hence the need for all of us to come together and speak with one voice. There  should be an end to wanton killings  and bloodletting, we must rise up with new ethical rebirth to  build a more united and prosperous Nigeria that we can all be proud of,”  Wahab said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com