FBNQuest Merchant Bank, the investment banking and asset management group of FBN Holdings Plc, has recommended commercial papers and bonds to corporate issuers seeking to raise working capital, expansion capital, refinance expensive debt and better match their cash obligations with revenues. It said this in a statement titled ‘FBNQuest recommends commercial papers and bonds to SMEs and corporates seeking stable funding sources’ on Monday. Speaking at the latest edition of the ‘Leading conversations with FBNQuest webinar series’, the Head Capital Markets, FBNQuest, Oluseun Olatidoye, noted that many companies did not take advantage of Nigeria’s growing commercial paper and bond market to access stable funds that matched their capital needs. “Even though interest rates have trended higher in the first quarter of this year, there is still significant scope for many companies to access cheaper and more stable funding from investors who are seeking well-run businesses with predictable cashflows to invest in,” he said. The statement said that Nigeria’s capital market had recorded a flurry of corporate commercial papers and bond issues since a sharp decline in interest rates in the third quarter of 2020. He said, “We think the market conditions have just cast the spotlight on a financing option that discerning companies should consider. “We look forward to working with our clients to navigate the process to issuing CPs and bonds and therefore unlocking the efficiency and convenience that these instruments offer.” The statement said the webinar, with the theme ‘Funding through commercial papers and bonds’, was hosted to engage corporates and investors on the opportunities within issuing and investing in commercial papers and bonds. Other speakers included the Senior Executive Director at Valency International, Sumit Jain. Speaking on the sentiment about the benefits of issuing commercial papers, Jain said, “We believe that corporates can lower the interest paid on bank debts by up to four percentage points by issuing commercial papers. “Loans also offer other tremendous benefits in the current macroeconomic environment.” The statement said as an investment banking institution, FBNQuest had advised on the issuance of several commercial papers transactions for organisations. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com