Federal lawmakers from Cross River State who are members of the Peoples Democratic Party have described as most regrettable the decision of Governor Ben Ayade to defect to the All Progressives Congress. The senators and House of Representatives members from the state vowed to remain in the PDP to further strengthen the party and ensure that the exit of the governor would not affect it negatively. Speaking on behalf of his colleagues in an interview in Abuja on Friday, the Senator representing Cross River South, Gershon Bassey, wondered why Ayade should dump a party under which platform he had won all his elections. Bassey, who is also the leader of the Cross River PDP caucus in the nation’s parliament, insisted that no member of the national and state House of Assembly would defect to the APC with the governor. He also said that many appointees of the governor had also said they preferred to resign rather than defect to the APC with Ayade. Bassey said, “As a strong stakeholder in the Peoples Democratic Party, I find the defection of Governor Ben Ayade most regrettable because he won all his elections as a senator and two terms as governor. “It is rather sad that after all the confidence that had been reposed in him by the PDP in Cross River State,  he would dump the platform abruptly. But we wish him well “His defection will not have any negative implication on the PDP in the state because the party remains strong and is the dominant party in the state. “Most of the national and state House of Assembly members are remaining firm in the PDP. “The key stakeholders are still in the party and even some of his appointees have offered to resign rather than go with him. So, the PDP continue to remain strong in the party. “I foresee crises and conflicts happening in the APC but our party will remain strong. “The bulk of the National Assembly members are not sailing with Ayade. We remain strong and staunch members of the the PDP. “I am a founding member of the PDP and I have seen no reason in the last 22 years that I have been in the party, to move anywhere. The PDP is the only party owned by Nigerians and I don’t want to go to anywhere. I don’t need a godfather or godmother. “Just like any other PDP members in the National Assembly, I just want to continue to be a member of the party. I am fully entrenched in the PDP.” NWC sacks caretaker committee, names new members Meanwhile, the national leadership of the PDP has dissolved the Cross River State caretaker committee of the party and named a replacement. The National Working Committee said it took the decision on behalf of the party’s National Executive Committee. National Publicity Secretary of the party, Kola Ologbondiyan, said the decision was pursuant to the powers conferred on the NWC by the PDP constitution. He said, “Consequently, the NWC has constituted a new State Caretaker Committee to pilot the affairs of the chapter of the party at the state level.” He listed the new officers as Efiok Cobham (Chairman), Attah Ochinke, Dr. Uke Enun, Prof Walter Mboto and  Rita Ayim (Publicity Secretary). Others are Mike Usibe, Christopher Ekpo, Victor Effiom Okon, Prince K.J. Agba and Eko Atu (Secretary). Ologbondiyan said all other structure of the party at the local government and ward levels in the state remained intact. Also, some stakeholders of the PDP in Cross River State have dissociated themselves from Ayade’s defection from the PDP to the APC. A former governor of Cross River State, Liyel Imoke, who spoke on behalf of the other stakeholders at a press conference, in Abuja, on Friday, explained that despite Ayade’s defection, Cross River State remained a predominantly PDP state. Imoke, who read from a prepared text at the conference, said, “The exit of the governor from our party, while being rather regrettable, does not come to us as a surprise as it was not unexpected. “We join the national leadership of our party to wish him well in his new found adventure. We understand that the people of Cross River State who have stood firmly with the PDP since 1999 and other lovers of Cross River State are deeply disappointed by this move made by a governor who has won all his elections under the platform of the party. “Given the overwhelming support which he enjoyed under the PDP and the fact that the PDP has an undeniable strong grass roots in the state, we affirm that Cross River state remains a PDP state. “An overwhelming majority of Cross River State people are PDP members. “Our key stakeholders, members of the National and State Assemblies and strategic grass root mobilisers are still members of our great party. We as a party therefore remain virile and strong. Our shell remains uncracked. “The leadership of Cross River State under the aegis of the PDP since 1999 has led the state to a pedigree of progression and seen to the attainment of all the lofty achievements the state has been known for. “Hence, the events of the last 24 hours in our state avail us an opportunity to strategise and realign ourselves with the PDP in Cross River State which was characterised by a trajectory of growth and development geared towards the path of greatness.” Meanwhile the Progressives Governors’ Forum, the umbrella body of governors elected on the platform of the APC, have while welcoming Ayade into their fold, described his decision to join the APC as a homecoming. The PGF in a statement titled, ‘The Progressive Reinforcement Continues…Welcoming Mr. Ben Ayade to the APC,’ Chairman of the PGF, Abubakar Bagudu, on Friday said, “The PGF notes that Ayade’s decision to join the APC was a testament to APC’s capacity to mobilise all Nigerians consistent with the vision of the founding fathers to ensure that the party is a platform to unite all Nigerians.” According to the governors, Ayade’s entry into the APC, further reinforces the process of membership and leadership recruitment at all levels. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com