Your husband has often said that he believes he would walk again. How optimistic are you about this? I also believe that my husband would walk again. There is nothing impossible for God to do, and does things at his appointed time. I am very optimistic about him walking again by the grace of God. Musicians have a lot of female fans and admirers. How have you been coping with that? They are welcome to be his fans and they can also admire him. My husband is a very good looking man; a super star and hard-working person. They can like and admire him though from a distance because if you come too close they will be burnt by the ‘fire of the Holy Ghost’. My husband looks good and nice all the time and that has cost me a lot of time and affection. But on a lighter note, I have never been bothered about my husband’s so-called admirers. I love and respect his fans. I did not marry anybody’s husband. I married the husband of my youth, and God has lightened my path all the way. How romantic is your husband? You know my husband is an Ekiti man. He is romantic and I have also taught him how to be romantic. To be honest, he is really trying and I always appreciate him for his efforts. He frequently calls to check on me when he is not at home. He buys things for me, even if there is nothing to celebrate. On every Valentine’s Day, he surprises me. Also, my birthdays are always different every year. There are so many sweet things he does to make me happy. What inspired you to set up your NGO and what are its activities? Society inspired me to set up a non-governmental organisation. When my husband was hospitalised at the University College Hospital, Ibadan, and all hope was lost, he decided to record an album. With that, we reached out to the public and we were accepted and helped. The objectives of the NGO are to provide succour for those that are rejected, dejected, devastated, lonely and homeless. In a similar vein, our vision is to reach out to the unreached, give support to the rejected and help the hopeless, irrespective of race, tribe, colour, gender or religion. Our goal is to lovingly provide solutions to those who are aching. Our activities include giving people second chances by organising vocational training for those who were unable to complete their studies, or even those who did and want to acquire more skills. We also offer counselling to those that want it. In addition, we visit orphanages and provide foodstuff, medicines, clothes and other things they need. What has been sustaining your marriage? I would like to thank God because He is responsible for sustaining our marriage. Perseverance and tolerance also help. Above all, trust is key. I and my hubby trust each other. Would you encourage your husband to run for public office? If it is God’s wish for my husband to run for public office, I will give him (husband) one hundred and one per cent encouragement and support all the way. How did you feel when your husband’s radio station was demolished by the Oyo State government? I was devastated. As a matter of fact, I was hospitalised for days because we did all we could to stop the demolition. I personally went to see the late Governor Abiola Ajimobi. The demolition was caused by a misunderstanding between both parties but we thank God that all is now history. Yinka Ayefele and the radio station are friends to all political parties and everyone in society. The station was established to serve the people of Oyo State in particular and Nigeria in general. What do you love most about your husband? He is a very hard-working man. One cannot afford to be lazy around him.  His family comes first (for him). He is a good man that provides and takes very good care of his family. I really love him for that. How did he propose to you? Yinka Ayefele is an Ekiti man and that time was not like now. As a gentleman that he is, he simply said, ‘I love you and want to marry you’. That was how he expressed the desire. You seem to shy away from the public glare even though you are married to a popular singer. Why is that? I love fame and glamour but we decided to separate our lives from the public glare. My husband is always out there working. He is the one representing the family. I always enjoy watching him out there, giving his best. I am not a shy person but both of us cannot be out there. It would affect our home, so we decided not to make our private lives public. Tell us about your education and family background. I am from Oyo State and I was born into the family of Late Prof Mathew Fawusi. I attended Christ The King Convent School, Ibadan, for my primary education. For my secondary education, I attended Ibadan Grammar School. I then went to St Andrews College of Education, before going to the University of Ibadan. I am a simple person, who believes in honesty and integrity. I am hard-working and I love serving God. I also love being around my family and friends. Many wives of popular singers are usually seen with their husbands at social gatherings. Why don’t you always accompany your husband to such events? We attend some events together if I am around and am invited. But most times, he goes to events to work— singing for people— and I can’t be following him around while he’s doing his job. If he is not the one performing at the event and the invitation is for the two of us, we would attend together. You were blessed with triplets in 2020. How was the experience? The birth of my triplets is the best thing that has ever happened to me. I might not have the right word to describe how grateful and blessed I am. That was something I had been aspiring to have for more than 20 years. I prayed that even if I could get just one child, I would be glad. I begged God that I had been waiting for so long, so He should give me an extraordinary miracle. And, God did just that. It was an awesome experience and I am still not out of the blues yet. Whenever I see my triplets, I believe that I am highly favoured by God. Did you go through In-Vitro Fertilisation? Can you share your story to encourage other women who are desperate to have children? Yes, I did IVF and I had been doing it since 2003. I would not use the word ‘desperate’ but rather say women who are ‘aspiring’ to have children. If one is desperate to have children, one would do unthinkable things that one could regret later. But, when one is aspiring for a thing, one would take the right steps and leave the rest to God. Even if one conceives through IVF, it is God that made it possible. IVF treatments are not pleasant. They would drain one emotionally, financially and psychologically. I was through it several times, both in Nigeria and abroad, and God decided to put a smile on my face. To women out there, people look at those of us that could not have children immediately after marriage as if we had messed up our lives or that we don’t know what we are doing. I would advise you to be optimistic that you would have your children at the appointed time. You should also wait on the Lord for directions. You waited for 20 years after marriage to have a baby amidst pressure from both families. How did you cope during the period? I thank my husband for believing that when there is life, there is hope. I also appreciate both families for their support at all times. I went through a lot of emotional trauma while waiting but it’s all history now to the glory of God. What was the worst advice you got from anyone about your marriage? I don’t discuss my husband with anyone and I don’t give room to anyone to advise me about my husband. Many people call me ‘Ruth abokoku’ (a woman who is ready to follow her husband to the grave). I see marriage as being ‘for better, for worse’. When it is ‘better’, one would enjoy and when it is ‘worse’, one would have to endure and pray to God. Some people have claimed that your husband is ‘fetish’ and sacrificed his legs in exchange for wealth. How do you feel when you hear such reports? People are entitled to their opinions. When people don’t know how one does things and they see that everything is going well in one’s life, they would say a lot of things about one. If they cannot believe that God can help someone and make everything good for the person, they would believe that the person is diabolical. My husband is a very hard-working person. Even on his wheelchair, he makes things happen. He is always out there doing what he knows how to do best. I don’t feel bad hearing all sorts of things about him. Rather, I always encourage him to do more, so that people would continue to say what they want. How helpful has your husband being since you had your triplets? He has been very helpful since their birth. He provides for us. He renovated the house to make it more comfortable for me and the triplets. He also employed nannies to help with the triplets. He sometimes stay with us at home to help with the children, so that I can have some time to myself. He has been a great dad. How do you like to dress? I love taking good care of myself even though I am a very simple person.  I enjoy dressing up to satisfy myself. I love nice clothes, with shoes to match and nice bags. I would not call myself a ‘fashionista’ but I am fashionable. I don’t go with what is trending but I choose what fits me. I love dressing up in my own simple but nice way. As the wife of a popular personality, one has to be seen at events looking nice and beautiful. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com