The Minister of Interior, Rauf Aregbesola, has directed all agencies under the ministry to establish special female squads. Aregbesola said this was to complement the efforts of the federal and state governments in checking banditry, kidnapping, cattle rustling, and gender-based violence across the country. Agencies under the ministry include the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Federal Fire Service, Nigeria Police Force, and the Nigeria Immigration Service. The minister issued the directive on Friday while presenting his keynote address during the passing-out parade of the newly established female squad of the NSCDC held at the corps’ training college in Katsina. Speaking on ‘Give our women their due chance,’ Aregbesola said this move would motivate women and promote their dignity. He said, “Today’s occasion is memorable and a response to the national security challenge and is intended to add value to security and enhance the capacity and operational efficiency of the NSCDC. “Women are more than half of the population and involving them in all aspects of nation-building and security is important. Native intelligence established that women are more loyal and focus on many assignments than men. “And for the avoidance of doubt, I am directing all the agencies in the Ministry of Interior to start their own female squads.” Earlier in his welcome, the NSCDC Commandant General of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps, Ahmad Audi, said the recent upsurge and frequency of attacks on schools by bandits made it imperative for the corps to focus attention on intensifying security at school environments. Katsina State Governor Aminu Masari, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Dr Mustapha Inuwa, said the initiative had come at the right time. He urged the NSCDC to increase the number of the squad in order to cover all the vulnerable schools across the country. The NSCDC female squad, 76 in number, had undergone a four-week training in combating and repelling attacks, rescuing kidnap victims, assembling and dissembling weapons, gun shooting, routine patrol, among others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com