Over six years after her death, the Queen’s School Ede/Ibadan Old Girls Association is set to honour the late Dr Ameyo Adadevoh with the inauguration of a multipurpose building. The event holds at the Bell Event Centre, Lagos Island, on May 22, according to a statement by the association titled, ‘Dr Ameyo Stella Adadevoh: The Ebola Heroine.’ The association said women were making an indelible mark in various fields from politics to finance to sports to healthcare, and so on, but said that perhaps one of the most influential women in recent history was the late Adadevoh. The late Adadevoh is credited with having curbed a wider spread of the Ebola virus in Nigeria by placing the patient zero, Patrick Sawyer, a Liberian, in quarantine. The late Adadevoh is known for preventing Sawyer from leaving the hospital at the time of diagnosis, thereby playing a key role in curbing the spread of the virus in the country. However, she was tested positive for the disease on August 4, 2014, and died on August 19, 2014. She has been honoured with various posthumous awards, including by the International Medical Corps, United Kingdom; Nigerian-American Medical Foundation; and Women in Management, Business and Public Service. Paying a tribute to the late Adadevoh, the Queen’s School Old Girls Association said she demonstrated indispensable qualities, including selflessness, in her life. The association said, “It is easy to draw parallels with what Dr Adadevoh achieved and those of other great and inspirational women – Queen Esther in the Bible putting her life on the line to prevent a Jewish genocide; Rosa Parks sitting on that bus in an act of protest against the injustice black people faced in America; Malala Yousafzai who was almost killed by the Taliban in her advocacy for female education.” “We have several heroines, each pivoting the course of history on behalf of millions of people. Dr Adadevoh was one of such great women,” the association added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com