A cleric has chided fiery Catholic priest, Rev Fr Ejike Mbaka over his partisan posture that led to the closure of his Adoration Ministry in Enugu. The parish priest of St Paul’s Catholic Church, Ebute Metta, Very Rev Fr Micheal-Christian Okonkwo, disclosed that Mbaka should borrow a leaf from a former Archbishop of Lagos, Anthony Cardinal Okogie, in the area of political commentaries. Okonkwo told Sunday PUNCH that there was a clear distinction between speaking truth to power and delving into partisan politics, which he claimed Mbaka was doing. “For instance, during the times of fiery priests like Okogie, he was acting as a moral voice, always speaking to the conscience of the government. We cannot be partisan. Fr Mbaka during his utterances has moved from being a moral voice to a partisan person and that is not what the Church stands for,” he said. Okonkwo, whose parish clocked 120 years in June 2021, admitted that the Catholic Church regretted meddling in partisan politics many centuries ago. “The Church pulled away from partisan politics after realising the damage it was bringing to its image, hence no priest is allowed to go into active politics. “We are allowed to talk to the conscience of politicians but we cannot be seen actively involved in partisan politics or be in support of one party against another. We must always be on the side of the people and be their voice. It is our role to collate the frustrations, anger and what people cannot discuss freely out of fear and present as a moral voice to the government. “That was exactly what Okogie did when he was still active and what the Catholic Bishops Conference are still doing. If the governance is bad, they speak out,” he said. The priest stated that the Bishop of Enugu Diocese was right in shutting down the Adoration Ministry after the wild demonstration by its worshippers at the bishop house in the cathedral. He stressed that Mbaka, like every other priest, owed the bishop his obeisance and could not assume a bigger posture than the church. “No matter the gifts that you have been given, you can never be greater than the church. We were taught that in the seminary. If you disobey, you lose your power to minister to the people of God. Every priest knows that. “Mbaka knows that even his Adoration Ministry is under the bishop who decides what happens in the diocese. “The ministry was not established for politics but for spiritual healing of people. His utterances are becoming somewhat partisan and the bishop needed to act. I think the bishop‘s action was in order,” he stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com