Rivers State government has approved contract for the construction of Cancer and Cardiovascular Diagnostic  and Treatment Centre at the cost of  N25.9bn. The centre, which will be sited at Rumuokuta in Obio-Akpor Local Government Area is expected to be completed within 14 months. A statement by the Special Assistant to the Rivers State Governor on Media, Kelvin Ebiri, on Wednesday said the facility was names after former governor of the state, Dr Peter Odili. The statement said the state Commissioner for Health, Prof. Princewill Chike, who briefed journalists after the Rivers State Executive Council meeting, presided over by Governor Nyesom Wike on Wednesday, explained that the facility would be built,  constructed and furnished by Julius Berger Nigeria Limited. “Julius Berger will be given 70 percent of the total cost. The cost of the contract for the  Cancer and Cardiovascular Diagnostic and Treatment Centre is N25,959,139,999.05,” Chike said. The Commissioner for Health expressed optimism that when the Dr Peyer Odili Cancer and Cardiovascular Diagnostic and Treatment Centre was completed, it would boost medical tourism in Rivers State. Similarly, the Commissioner for Works, Elloka Tasie-Amadi, said his ministry had received approvals from the State Executive Council for the construction of the ninth flyover at Rumuepirikom, the dualisation of the first phase of the Ahoada- Omoku Road, as well as internal roads in Omerelu. According to him, the flyover which  will be completed in 12 months at the cost of N6.6bn, will be funded by the deduction of N400m monthly from state’s Internally Generated Revenue. The Commissioner for Works explained that the construction of Omerelu internal roads had been awarded to Monier Construction Company (Nigeria) Limited at the cost of N 4.4bn.Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com