Immediate past president of Nigeria, Goodluck Jonathan, and other Nigerians, on Thursday, eulogised the late President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua 11 years after his demise. The late Yar’Adua died on May 5, 2010, after ruling Nigeria for three years. Goodluck Jonathan, Yar’Adua’s vice president at that time, later became the president of the country. Remembering the late Yar’Adua, Jonathan described his former boss as a “peacemaker, nation builder, and democrat”. He tweeted, “Today, I celebrate my boss, friend, colleague, and brother, President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua who departed this world 11 years ago. As politicians, we shared a common vision of a peaceful, united and just nation. “President Yar’Adua kept faith with this vision, channelling his strength and time in pursuit of an egalitarian society, until his last breath. “Although out of our sight, his legacies live with us and his memory we will continue to cherish. “We will always remember him as a peacemaker, nation builder, and democrat whose timeline was defined by virtues of service, peace, truth and love.” Other key politicians were not left out in remembering the late president. The immediate past President of the Senate, Bukola Saraki, regretted that he lost a “great friend” and a “committed leader”. Saraki, who is also former Kwara State governor, said, “On this day 11 years ago, Nigeria lost a selfless, patriotic, and committed leader — and I lost a great friend. “As we remember President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua today, we celebrate his legacy of integrity and pray that the mercy of Almighty Allah (God) continues to be upon him. Amin.” On his part, Nigeria’s former vice-president, Abubakar Atiku, said, “Eleven years in remembrance of our late President Umaru Yar’Adua—a patriot and compassionate leader. May your memory continue to be a blessing.” Other Nigerians on Twitter also eulogised the past leader. @firstladyship tweeted, “Good name is better than gold. 11 years on and Nigerians still call you the selfless, detribalised, and patriotic leader. “It’s deeds, not words. President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua was “integrity and honesty,” unlike those who claim they have integrity, & blame everyone else but themselves.” “Today, I joined thousands of right-thinking Nigerians to celebrate the legacies of our former President, Umaru Musa Yar’Adua, who died exactly 11 years ago. “He was the true definition of integrity. May his peace-loving soul continue to rest in perfect peace,” @barbatunedey added.