The Peoples Democratic Party  and the ruling All Progressives Congress in Ogun State have traded words over an alleged plan by the APC  to use security agencies to unleash terror on members of the opposition parties during the local government election in the state. The PDP accused the APC and the administration of Governor Dapo Abiodun of  planning to rig the election using security agencies. Addressing journalists at the PDP secretariat in Abeokuta on Friday, the chairman of the party’s local government election organising committee,  Samson Bamgbose, urged  the Ogun State Independent Electoral Commission  to  conduct a free, fair and credible election. Bamgbose, who was represented by the Vice Chairman of the committee, Ayinde Awobadejo, advised the electoral body to avoid a repeat of the nationwide #EndSARS protest in the state by not allowing the APC to rig the election slated for July 24. He said the party was determined to rescue the state from “the shackles
of the agony, insensitivity and gross maladministration of the ruling APC government. “The information going around is that the ruling government under Prince Dapo Abiodun is already in talks with some security agencies on how to intimidate and molest PDP members and supporters, as well as other oppositions. “The plan is to unleash terror on our members and supporters and chase oppositions away from the collation centres in all the 20 LGAs. “This would allow OGSIEC in partnership with APC the freedom  to conjure fictitious votes for all APC candidates and  announce same in an atmosphere that would be heavily militarised.” But in a swift reaction, the public secretary of the caretaker committee of the APC, Tunde Oladunjoye, described the allegation as baseless. Oladunjoye said,   “There is nothing of such at all, it is totally untrue.” He described the PDP as “a coward that dies  many times before his death.” “The PDP should not resort to scaremongering; what is very important is the image of Ogun State, we should not demarket Ogun State. “It is a baseless allegation and it is not in tandem with what this present regime is known for. Since Abiodun became the governor, the heat in the polity before the election has been totally removed.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com