The Senator representing Ikot Ekpene Senatorial district, in Akwa Ibom state, Christopher Ekpenyong, has said that the implementation of the open grazing ban by the southern governors would tackle incessant clashes between farmers and herdsmen in the country. Ekpenyong who said this Monday in an interview in Uyo commended the decision of the Southern governors, describing it as timely. He said those opposed to that decision taken by the governors in Asaba, Delta State, do not have the interest of the country at heart. He particularly slammed the Attorney- General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, for allegedly misleading Nigerians and the Federal government by his statement on the ban. “I am totally in support of the decision of the governors of Southern Nigeria to ban open grazing of Cattle in their respective states. It is highly commendable. The ban is very germane to curbing the violent and persistent clashes between Farmers and Pastoralists in the Southern region. “In fact for the first time in recent times, I feel so happy that the governors have seen the need to come together despite party affiliation to discuss and take proactive decisions on issues bedeviling their states and the region. I am also 100 per cent in support of other decisions they took at the Asaba meeting including the restructuring of Nigeria. “And Nigerians should disregard those opposed to the open grazing ban. Anyone opposed to such steps to ensure peace among Nigerians does not have the interest of this country at heart. I am particularly disappointed with the Attorney- General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami for trying to mislead Nigerians and the All Progressives Congress (APC) by his own interpretation of the ban. Nigerians should not “How can he compare the movement of Cattle and Spare parts business? It is sad. The governors took the decision as part of a strategy to address the insecurity caused by the Farmers’ and Cattle herders’ clashes. It is a cause of concern. And as Chief Security Officers of their States the safety of their citizens should be their primary responsibility,” Ekpenyong said. He advised State governors whose states are yet to enact the Anti-Open grazing Law to ensure they work with their State Houses of Assembly to do so, stressing that the ban on open grazing must be backed with the enabling Law.