What does being an ‘emotions doctor’ mean? The title ‘Emotions Doctor’ is my personal brand. I came up with it because it had always been my passion and purpose to help as many people as possible in solving their emotional instability challenges. As the lead researcher and facilitator at Emotions City, my responsibility is to coach, offer therapy, train and consult. I work with individuals, organisations and governments. What activities are carried out at Emotions City and what is their significance to society? We are very passionate about mental health and emotional intelligence. We have studied and are still studying Africans, their cultures and history, so that we can attend to them in the way they deserve to be attended to. One of our core responsibilities is to make mental healthcare affordable for many people. Basically, all our activities are tied to mental health and emotional intelligence. What is the vision behind the emotional intelligence week? The emotional intelligence week is our corporate social responsibility to Nigeria. We train about one thousand participants every year for free on emotional intelligence and mental health. We are trying to educate people that mental health is the ground core of health. Without sound mental health, one would be exposed and vulnerable. Can you recall the most notable training sessions you have had? Some of the most notable feedback I have got from different people include how they have been able to master their emotions. There is also a programme for children and we love the feedback from them. We teach them how to be more patient, control their anger and master their emotions. It is easier to build a child than to repair an adult. So, my favourite sessions are when training children and their parents. I believe the family is the factory of the nation. If we can focus on children and their parents, we would have a more stable nation. In what ways did your time at the Yale Centre for Emotional Intelligence (Yale University) impact on your life and career? After touring the world of emotional intelligence, I felt I ought to learn from, Peter Salovi, the current President of Yale University and also the Director for Emotional Intelligence. I am grateful for being a part of the team and learning from them. On whether it has impacted my career; maybe in terms of perception. I learnt a lot and I met many people. What is expected of you as a member of the Forbes Business Council? I am expected to churn out documents, resources and articles in the area of mental health and emotional intelligence. I am regarded as a ‘thought leader’ in the area of mental health and emotional intelligence for Africans. What does it take to belong to the British Psychological Society? I joined it while studying for my Master’s degree in Psychology. In the United Kingdom, every student of psychology is automatically enrolled into the BPS. What are the challenges you face in the course of doing your job? The national insecurity and other things going on in the country presently affect people’s mental health. For example, inflation will affect people because instead of prioritising mental health, people are prioritising survival. Others are the societal stigma, religious drama, financial stigma and people’s lack of understanding of mental health. What inspired your new book, ‘Soul-stripper’? It is a connection with my heart. I want people to know that they have the capacity to create their joy and peace. It teaches people that they can be emotionally stable in an unstable world. The book is a way of letting people know that life is in three flavours— black, white and grey. It is the grey parts we hate but somewhere along the line, they still show up. It is a tool for the management of emotional and mental health. What personal qualities have aided your life growth over the years? That would be my authenticity. I usually say that I am imperfectly perfect. As I teach, I grow, develop, make mistakes, and try to correct them. How can emotional intelligence be developed? One can develop it by learning about it, by prioritising and taking responsibility for it. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com