A security expert, Dr Ona Ekhomu, has asked state governments to develop a kidnap contingency plan to manage all aspects of mass abduction of school students. In a statement in Lagos on Wednesday, Ekhomu, who is the National President of the Association of Industrial Security and Safety Operators of Nigeria, condemned the handling of the abduction of the 39 students of the Federal College of Forestry Mechanisation, Afaka, Kaduna State, saying government officials were not sensitive to the psychological and emotional stress the victims’ parents underwent during the 57-day captivity. He said the “incompetent and tone-deaf emergency response by Kaduna officials” caused severe mental stress for the parents. Ekhomu said since school abductions had become frequent, the government should create Crisis Management Teams (CMT) to respond to abductions or other critical incidents. According to him, the CMT will provide logistical, practical and emotional assistance to families of kidnap victims. “This could be in the form of transportation, communication, housing, financial, etc. The CMT would provide authoritative information about efforts to rescue the hostages and help with productive negotiations with the bandits. The CMT could also provide psychological counseling and medical monitoring for victims’ families,” he added. Ekhomu said trained negotiators could help parents observe negotiation landmarks such as demanding proof of life, driving down the ransom demands and calming the abductors to avoid harsh treatment of the abductees. He noted that the CMT should also have sophisticated recording gadgets that would accurately record the voices of the abductors which could be useful in successful prosecution of the perpetrators when caught alive. Ekhomu said the CMT would also provide post-captivity support for victims, many of whom could be traumatised, sick, injured and emotionally scarred for life. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com