The UNI Global Union and the International Trade Union Confederation have said 98 per cent of the world’s workers are not getting the sick pay, wage replacement and social benefits they need to withstand the impacts of COVID-19. This was disclosed in the global study, titled ‘COVID-19: An occupational disease – Where frontline workers are best protected’. The report, which ranked 124 countries, with Argentina adjudged as number one, followed by Austria, Sweden, France, and Spain, for providing support to workers affected by COVID-19. It ranked Nigeria low, saying workers in the country were slightly supported by the government. “The lowest rated countries have several things in common. Firstly, they all have yet to recognise COVID-19 as an occupational disease. They also have not made any specific changes to their regulatory provisions for COVID-19,” it said. While speaking on the report, UNI Global Union General Secretary, Christy Hoffman said: “Governments are failing the frontline workers who are supporting our communities during the pandemic by forcing them to shoulder the physical, psychological and financial burdens of COVID-19 on their own. “These workers — often women, migrants and workers of colour —should not have to choose between their health and financial health. Recognising COVID-19 as an occupational disease, combined with automatic qualification for benefits for workers on the frontlines, will help ensure workers have the best possible chance of getting the benefits and compensation they deserve.” The report said the union and ITUC made key policy recommendations to ensure better support for frontline workers, including automatic qualification for benefits related to COVID-19, coverage for all workers regardless of the employment relationship, inclusion of a general occupational infectious disease category in laws and policy and paid sick leave for testing and recovery. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com