Power consumer groups have called for increased and stable electricity from distribution companies following the N120bn capital expenditure fund provided by the Central Bank of Nigeria for the improvement of distribution infrastructure. Officials of Electricity Consumers Association of Nigeria and the Nigeria Electricity Consumers Advocacy Network commended the Federal Government for the intervention through the CBN, but insisted that the funds must impact positively on the power sector. Last week, the Special Adviser to the President on Infrastructure, Ahmad Zakari, revealed that the CBN had provided funding for capital expenditure by Discos in order to improve electricity distribution across the country. He disclosed this while countering a World Bank report which claimed that 78 per cent of power consumers in Nigeria get less than 12 hours of daily supply of electricity. Zakari said, “It is inaccurate to make a blanket statement that 78 per cent of Nigerians have less than 12 hours daily access. The data from NERC is that 55 per cent of citizens connected to the grid are in tariff bands D and E which are less than 12 hours supply. “Those citizens are being fully subsidised to pre-September 2020 tariffs until Discos are able to improve supply. There is a N120bn CAPEX (capital expenditure) fund from CBN for Discos to improve infrastructure for these tariff classes similar to the metering programme that is ongoing.” Reacting to the N120bn intervention by the apex bank, the President, Electricity Consumers Association of Nigeria, Chijioke James, described it as a welcome development for the power sector. James, a legal practitioner, however, told our correspondent that the expectation of consumers was that the fund would assist in sufficiently cutting down on the number of unmetered power users nationwide. He said it was the responsibility of Discos to provide meters, as most power users had expected the electricity distributors to meet this requirement. He noted that ECAN would welcome any investment that would lead to increased and stable electricity for consumers, adding that the provision of funding for distribution infrastructure and meters was welcomed. James said, “The funding for distribution infrastructure is a welcome development. We hope it will also sufficiently reduce the number of electricity consumers without meters. However, I don’t know how that can immediately improve the lot of the consumers. “This is because we had long expected that the Discos ought to have sufficiently metered their customers and provided other basic infrastructure in the value chain. “So the excitement, more on the side of consumers, will come from increased and stable electricity to their homes. Therefore any investment that can ensure that will be most welcomed, just like this one for improved distribution infrastructure.” The ECAN president, however, stressed that the association would not want a situation where public funds would be given to private businesses and it would not impact positively on power users. The National Secretary, Nigeria Electricity Consumers Advocacy Network, Uket Obonga, stated that the interventions by government in the power sector were welcomed. He, however, insisted that power firms must use the funds judiciously for the betterment of the sector, rather than using it to acquire exotic luxuries for themselves. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com