The Delta State Police Command says it has commenced investigation into the circumstances surrounding the death of 28-year-old Ogehenetejiri Omiragua following his arrest by personnel of the Rapid Response Squad in Asaba. PUNCH Metro gathered that the victim, a graduate of Microbiology from the Delta State University, Abraka, was arrested on April 29, 2021, alongside his girlfriend, Favour Michael, in front of a hotel and accused of being a gunrunner. It was gathered that because Ogehenetejiri refused to admit to owning a gun, he was beaten and bundled into a police van and taken to the police station. Our correspondent learnt that after being subjected to hours of torture, Ogehenetejiri died from the injuries he sustained. Speaking exclusively to PUNCH Metro, the state Commissioner of Police, Mohammed Ali, said he was aware of the case and that it was under investigation. He stated that once the autopsy report was released by pathologists at the Delta State General Hospital, Asaba, a full blown investigation would commence. He said although many policemen were involved, the cop linked directly to the death of the undergraduate was being detained. Ali gave an assurance that once the autopsy report was out and the detained policeman was indicted, he would be charged. The CP stated, “The family members of the deceased were here yesterday (Monday). We interfaced with them and assured them that no stone would be left unturned in ensuring that justice is served at the end. “The policeman in question has been in detention and we are waiting for the Asaba General Hospital to give us the report of the post-mortem examination. Of course, that is what we are waiting for. We can’t do anything without hearing from the hospital. “We have to ascertain the medical cause of death. If the policeman is indicted, he will be prosecuted and we will be done with the case. That is the first determinant factor. From there, we can now move forward.” On why the other police personnel allegedly involved in the death of the victim had not been detained, Ali said, “I am aware that more police personnel were there, but the person linked to the death of the victim is the one we are holding accountable. Others are still under investigation. That is the position for now.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com