The Central Bank of Nigeria is working with the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture, government agencies and private firms to halt the rejection of crops produced in Nigeria by other nations. Efforts being made by them to ensure zero rejection of Nigerian crops were contained in a communique issued at the end of a one-day workshop organised in Abuja by Harvest Field Industries Limited and IITA. The workshop’s theme was ‘Scaling solutions to control aflatoxin in Nigeria’s crop value chain: The test results under the CBN Anchor Borrowers Programme 2020 Wet Season Project.” The communique, which was made available to our correspondent on Tuesday, said the workshop was aimed at sharing results of aflatoxin levels in maize sampled nationwide under the CBN-ABP 2020 wet season project. Aflatoxins are poisonous parasitic chemicals in crops harmful to human health and found in some Nigerian grains, a development that had prompted the rejection of the agro-produce in the international market. The communique said, “Also, it (the workshop) is to prompt concerted efforts towards the adoption of appropriate technologies for the reduction of aflatoxin in our crops, food, feeds and livestock as required by global food quality standards. “Reduced aflatoxin prevalence will contribute tremendously towards achieving zero rejection of our export commodities and ensure food safety in Nigeria.” Aside from CBN, IITA and Harvest Field, other participants at the workshop included the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control, and the Standards Organisation of Nigeria. The Federal Competition and Consumer Protection Commission, the Federal Ministry of Health, Value Seeds Limited, Maize Association of Nigeria, National Groundnut Producers Processors and Marketers Association of Nigeria, among others, also participated in the workshop. During the technical session, participants at the workshop recommended that the inter-ministerial committee on aflatoxin regulation and enforcement of food safety laws in Nigeria should be revived. They called for the enactment of technical policy regulating the testing and enforcement of allowable aflatoxin limits in food and feed processing and distribution industries, among others. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com