What are the types of flooding being experienced in Nigeria? There are three major types of flooding that we experience in Nigeria. The first one is river flooding, which is not just from rivers that are within Nigeria but from River Niger and River Benue, and these are trans-boundary waters. There is also urban/flash flooding, and these are caused by poor drainage systems or even non-existing drainage systems in many major cities in Nigeria. Lastly is coastal or tidal flooding for states that are within coastal areas such as Ondo, Lagos, Bayelsa and Rivers. Now, it is important to state that our Annual Flood Outlook is a scientific prediction done using historical data physically collected in the field, some of them over 40 to 50 years ago. So, we use it to project and see what is going to happen tomorrow. And from what we have seen using international standards to predict, we have said that not less than 121 Local Government Areas in Nigeria, in 27 states actually, will be affected by flooding in the course of the year. Also, about 302 LGAs will experience different magnitudes of flooding. And about 351 LGAs may have a lesser severity of flooding. But like I said, it is a prediction, which we monitor closely by weekly publications. We are talking about the issue of climate change and so what you see today may not be what will happen tomorrow. So, as a result of that, we will be updating the media, states and others on what they are likely to observe in the course of the year. How are you interfacing with the states with respect to predictions in the AFOs? We will be doing sensitisation programmes and will downscale it to the states. We will tell the governors that these are the locations in your state that are likely to be affected in the course of the year 2021. We informed the public through the press some months ago, as preparatory to the unveiling of the 2021 AFO. And by protocol, it is the Minister of Water Resources who interfaces with the governors on behalf of the agency. Last year, for instance, the minister sent letters to each of the state governors in Nigeria and detailed the states that would be affected by flooding in that year. But what they did with it is another cup of tea. Also, we go through other systems in the states such as their emergency management agencies, water resources and environment ministries. We interface with them directly, but what they do with our information is another issue. Are you satisfied with what states are doing about the recommendations in the AFOs? Frankly speaking, they are not doing as much as we expect from them, otherwise, the level of devastation that happens year in year out could have been avoided or eliminated. We’ve been telling the state governors that the tempo of political activities they embark upon during election periods should be deployed against activities that encourage flooding. Go to the grassroots, you have councillors in LGAs. They should be able to cascade this information and domesticate it in their own locations. But often time, it doesn’t happen. However, when a disaster occurs, they are quick to complain and cry out to high heavens and maybe get some support from the humanitarian ministry. But in terms of ameliorating the impact of flooding before it occurs, they don’t seem to be doing much. I recall in 2016/2017, I engaged some state emergency management agencies one-on-one and we were told not to come to tell them what will happen in the course of the year except we are coming with relief materials. But we told them that that was not our jurisdiction. Ours is to inform you about what is likely to happen in your own state. If it happens, you have the National Emergency Management Agency that can support you, not NIHSA. What are states likely going to face by failing to abide by the recommendations in the AFO? Going by the law establishing the agency, the agency’s powers begin and stop at predicting and releasing the message. We don’t enforce anything. Each state has its own regulatory body, such as the urban planning department and emergency management agencies. They also have environmental laws and ministries that are supposed to be the regulators to ensure that the dictates of our prediction are followed. I may then say that NEMA could now insist by saying, ‘Since you failed to do the needful, don’t run to us for relief materials.’ This is because, if you recall, when the flood was very severe in 2012, the Federal Government gave out a lot of money. Some states got about N4bn to N5bn, depending on the degree of devastation. Maybe such decisions could be taken by NEMA so as to encourage states that are doing well in terms of adhering to the predictions to ensure that lives and property are not lost. We, as an agency, can’t enforce anything; we can’t force any governor to do the needful. But the governors on their own should in the spirit of humanity protect and help those who voted them into power. Are you collaborating with sister agencies on climate issues? In fact, our relationship with one of them, NiMet (Nigeria Meteorological Services Agency) is very superb and cordial. First of all, at the international level, the meteorological agency is Nigeria’s permanent representative with the World Meteorological Organisation, and that falls on whoever is the Director-General. Also, whosoever heads the hydrological agency in any nation is an adviser to that permanent representative. So, in that wise, there is a very good collaboration between NIHSA and NiMet; for instance, we requested rainfall data from NiMet. And this was one of the major inputs in the model to use for predictions. They provide us those data at no cost. And once they are releasing their own predictions, such as the Seasonal Rainfall Prediction, which is now called Seasonal Climate Prediction, they inform NIHSA. So, we collaborate a lot; they provide us with data that help us to do our prediction alongside other river measurements that we do by ourselves. We use so much data – about 12 of them, but the rainfall data are among the major data. What are some of the recommendations in the 2021 AFO, and what advice do you have for farmers? Farmers should heed our predictions. They should also abide by our warnings. Those who farm within the river banks should ensure that their crops have early maturity. This is to ensure that before the onset of the rainy season or flooding, the crops would have matured and be harvested. Flooding doesn’t come with the rains immediately, rather it is when the soil is saturated and its moisture content becomes high that flooding will begin to take place. So, if there is a way they can be helped to plant crops that can mature easily, it should be done, so that before the flooding starts they can harvest. And after the flooding, heavy nutrients are now brought within the flood plain, which can lead to enhanced yields when the farming starts again. The Governor of Kebbi State, Atiku Bagudu, for instance, once mentioned that because of the heavy nutrients that the floods brought, they were able to regain what they lost in one of the farming seasons. That governor is very active, he works with us and comes from time to time to ask what could be done to improve farming activities in his state. What are some of the things states should be doing now, considering the looming flood? Like I said in our press briefing in March, there is still time for states, LGAs and individuals to take necessary steps to avert or minimise the disastrous effects of flood in the year 2021. We made it clear at the briefing that as the country gradually steps into the 2021/2022 Hydrological Year in the River Niger Basin, which covers nine countries, namely Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroun, Chad, Cote D’Ivoire, Guinea, Mall, Niger and Nigeria, it means that Nigeria is gradually inching towards the peak rainy season, with its attendant flood incidents. Nigeria’s geographical location, downstream of all the countries in this basin, places it at the receiving end of disastrous floods and pollution from all the countries upstream. We know that the persistent flooding and flood disasters have become an annual event in Nigeria since 2012 when the country experienced its worst flood disaster in recent history. In 2012, hundreds of lives were lost, thousands of citizens rendered homeless with property losses running into trillions of naira. It is in the light of the above that NIHSA wishes to urge the states and the general public to take necessary measures to prevent the ugly menace of flooding in the past years. We recommend that the three tiers of government should consider clearing drainage systems and canals and also embark on projects for improving hydraulic conveyance of surface run-offs during peak flows. They should carry out the removal of refuse, weeds, water hyacinths and floats on water channels and on all avenues for river runoffs. We also encourage people living along the waterways and those having socio-economic activities on flood plains to relocate to safe areas before the peak of the rains. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com