The Vice Chancellor of the University of Medical Sciences, Ondo State, Prof. Adesegun Fatusi, has called on the state government and other stakeholders to provide amenities for the newly established School of Public Health of the university. The school is located at Bolorunduro town in the Ondo East Local Government Area of the state. Fatusi said the new faculty which was located some kilometers away from the main campus of the university lacked electricity, hostel accommodation, transportation and other amenities to be able to function optimally. He stated this at the inauguration of the UNIMED School of Public Health . According to him, the new faculty stands in a class of its own in the world of public health training facilities in Nigeria. Fatusi said, “For all practical purposes, it can rightly be described as the first full-fledged school of public health in Nigeria. “I will like to highlight four major areas where we need some critical help to enable us to function optimally. Bolorunduro has been without electricity for years. We have taken several steps to have electricity restored. To enable us to take off, we have provided our classrooms and laboratories with solar-powered light. But the rest of the facilities, including the staff offices, still lack any electrical power connection. “The site places significant demand on us with regards to transportation. With no light in town, staff will have to come from Ondo and Akure. Students will also need to be moved around as well as engage in a lot of field visits as part of the training curriculum and our training philosophy. We will appreciate assistance in terms of buses and an ambulance vehicle, even if used ones, provided they are in good shape. “We need hostel facilities; we will appreciate it if the immediate surrounding empty lands of about 20 hectares can be acquired by the government for us to use for hostel and recreational facilities. Secondly, our idea for hostel development is through the public-private-partnership model.” In his remarks, the Visitor to the institution and Governor of the state, Mr Rotimi Akeredolu, who commended the establishment of the school, called for the support of stakeholders to help develop the school particularly in the area of herbal medicine. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com