Renowned poet, Odia Ofeimun, tells GRACE EDEMA in this interview that the bookshop culture no longer exists as people now pay minimal attention to books Can you kindly give an overview of the book world? The book world as it is at the moment is in a very bad state, especially in Nigeria. It is not only COVID-19 that’s holding the book world down; before coronavirus, the book world was already very much down. First, it is that people don’t buy books. When I was a student, I used to buy books because I could afford them. But these days, books are too expensive and so what we should be talking about is how to make books available to a wider audience. How to ensure that those who write books are properly protected, because at the end of the day, when people don’t feel that their profession is protected, the commitment is also reduced. I will say that one good way to know how the book world is faring is to go round all the bookshops in Nigeria or Lagos. Bookshops, especially universities’ bookshops, used to be buoyant places to visit; even if you didn’t have the money to buy, you could at least see the kind of books that were available in the world. These days, bookshops are no longer as buoyant as they used to be and you know one of the most painful things is to find out that all the authors you hear about in Nigeria, you enter the bookstores and you don’t see the books. To make matters worse, pirates take over the market and make it difficult for writers and publishers to make the best of their trades. I’m not too sure that pirates are doing so well under the pandemic. Whenever books are doing well, pirates always do better than those who are supposed to be the owners of the trade. There used to be talk about bend-down bookstores across Lagos; when you go to those places that used to be bend-down bookstores, they are simply not there anymore. What that shows is the lowdown nature of the book world. But it all begins with the fact that people cannot buy books the way they used to. Why are people not buying books the way they used to? I started by talking about how as a student I could buy books. Books are getting too expensive and incomes are not rising high enough to catch up with the rate of inflation. The cost of paper is rising; so, publishers have to be careful. If you really want to see the state of the book world, talk to any writer and you will find out that most of the brilliant writers we have around cannot get published. This is not because the books they have written are not good, but because publishers cannot take the risks they used to take before. What is the use of pouring much money into producing a book if you’re not sure of the market? The cost of publishing is high, especially materials for printing due to inflation in the country. What will be your advice for writers and publishers? It is a very difficult question to answer because some publishers can take the risk of publishing and waiting for a long time to get the returns. But that also means that they are not going to be in a hurry to invest, because a publisher is in the business to make money no matter how much you love books. You’re still in business to make money and when you enter a bookshop these days, we can’t blame coronavirus for it, the situation was already bad. E-books are taking over and I think e-books are moving higher in terms of their control of the market. But you and I know that people have not quite bought into the e-book business; most people are still waiting to visit bookshops. Most of the book sellers are almost out of business, if you ask me. To be honest, what I am doing now is not very fair, because when you talk about how the book world is failing, the more you dishearten those who ought to buy books. Sometimes, it is fair to generally simply talk about books without over emphasising the difficulties. The difficulties are so many that we can’t even be sure that when we talk about the nearest future, there will be books to buy. Schools are in trouble generally, that is where the business of book selling ought to begin. When people go to school, they buy books. In Nigeria, most people never bought books for school purposes, because they could photocopy books rather than buy them. In many countries where book trade is doing well, if you photocopy a book, you will still pay for it. But in Nigeria, things have been done in such a way that because the state’s defence for book is very poor and state protection for the book sellers and author do not come in handy. I’m a writer and I know the first difficulty is getting my books into the market; that is a problem that Nigeria faces. We might be lucky to have a few authors, who are doing very well. If Chimamanda Adichie brings out a book today, there is a sense in it, because she already has market presence; a lot of people will gravitate towards the book. Tell me, how many people know where to buy a book by Chimamanda Adichie if they really want to buy? If you go to buy online, that actually means the market is considerably reduced, because that area of the book business has not caught on enough for one to rely completely on it. Are you saying that selling books online will not bring in enough income compared to hard copies or bookshop sales? You know when we talk about authors earning a living by what they write, what you have said by reference to Chimamanda Adiche is that there might be authors, who are in a position to live on what they write but the majority are in limbo. What should authors do to make themselves visible like Chimamanda Adichie to a level that they can earn a measurable income from book writing? What advice do you have for authors/writers? If I have an advice for writers, it means I have found a solution to my problem as a writer. I can tell you that there is no such solution in sight. We still have to plug into the Internet and online sales just as most writers in the world are doing. When the pandemic is over, hoping that that will be soon, maybe the world can return to some normalcy. But whether books will be a great beneficiary I can’t tell. All writers at the moment in my view should be writing in the sense that you are writing for a world that will soon open up; but when that world opens up, we don’t know what the result will be. Do you believe that online sale will take over from the physical sale of book in the nearest future? I’m a great lover of books. I like to see books around me. No matter how popular online marketing may be, I will always buy books. It is the only thing I have in my house. I imagine that when the world is really doing well, hard copies of books will come back again to be in vogue. I’m sure that there are many people in the world, who prefer to hold a book in their hands. I mean these days, I’m forced to read the newspapers online. I can tell you that it is not the same thing as when you’re holding a newspaper in your hands. Now, that’s part of the problem that the world may be moving beyond your preference and in this particular case, I must say I’m partial. I believe the world will never properly move beyond hard copies. Books will always be around; that’s what I believe, because when electronic books are doing well, I imagine that as a writer I will join in the stream and hopefully do well. But, I’m partial towards hardcopy. There is nothing that can take the place of a book in your hands. You can say the world is moving very fast and you have to move fast with it. Actually, holding a book in your hands has something to it that cannot be replaced by liquid copies. How can books be made available to the wider Nigerian audience of students, schoolchildren and readers? You know to ask that question is to first of all ask where you get books to buy. Online, as I’m talking to you, there are not enough adverts for books, because to advertise a book, you still have to pay and in the newspapers there are not enough adverts for books. If you published a book in the past, you would have reviewers falling over themselves to present the books. If you look around, when last did you see books being properly talked about? Wole Soyinka just published a great novel after so many years of not publishing narrative fictions. Well, the book has been making the rounds, but you know that in an earlier world, a Soyinka book of that nature would have gone on selling for quite a while. The book is big and therefore a bit expensive. But seriously, the state of bookshops in Nigeria generally makes it difficult to talk properly about how that book is fairing or will fair in the market. The bookshop culture is not there anymore. Why is the bookshop culture not there again? Start with the pandemic. Aside from inflation, don’t you think people’s interest in the social media and on-screen could also be a reason? No, I don’t think so. People’s interest in the social media ought to get them involved in all the debates on books. But you don’t have all those debates about books on the social media. People are too busy gossiping and rumour-mongering. The kind of attention they pay to serious literature is minimal. What is the cause of this? The world has generally been turned into a place that is not for serious discussions. It’s painful to say so, because the freedom social media provides ought to be helpful. It is a place where there are more experts than sensible people. The social media is simply not improving the quality of discussion as one would have expected. Actually, reducing the quality of discussion appears to be what it does. Many people, who are genuinely serious minded, get involved but not in the old way. By the old way, I mean that people for whom book matters; social media ought to be the place they go to. Somebody who wants to be a writer therefore must learn simply to wait for the world to get better and that means you can write your big books while waiting for the world to get better. Don’t forget that some of the great literatures of the world were written and published when there weren’t many people buying books, when literacy was very low in the society. Therefore, it doesn’t mean that literature will not progress; it simply means that we have to rebuild that block by block as it was done in the past. A young author, who is expecting to acquire stardom by just doing a book, will have to wait a little. The space, rather than expand, has shrunken. I will add that don’t let us use COVID-19 times to judge what the real situation will be if the world opens up. Because when the world opens up, the situation may be different. Many people, who have been spending their pandemic times writing great masterpieces, may simply provide a reason for the world to return to the books they have abandoned. I mean, if people used to write with some speed and they now have the pandemic to slow down the process of production, maybe they will produce better books and therefore elevate, if not the standard, but the kind of commitment that people have to the book world. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com