An early morning fire, on Sunday gutted a parish of the Redeemed Christian Church of God in the Alapere area of Lagos State. The cause of the inferno, which started around 6.30am and destroyed the entire building, was still unknown as of the time of filling this report. Footage of the incident, which surfaced online, showed the building in flames with several vehicles trapped on the church premises. The Lagos State Fire Service stated on its Twitter page, “The Redeem(ed) Church Fire at Ogudu GRA, Alapere Lagos Fire occurred at about 06.30am today Sunday and had since been put out by Lagos State Fire & Rescue Service, please.” However, when contacted, the Public Relations Officer of the agency, Jamiu Dosunmu, said he was awaiting directives from his boss to speak on the incident. Similarly, the Public Relations Officer of the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, Nosa Okunbor, said he was awaiting further directives. When contacted, the Head of Media and Public Relations, RCCG, Pastor Olaitan Olubiyi, said, “We have not got the full information; so, I will not be able to speak on that for now.” Similarly, a shopping complex inside the Owode/Igbona Market in Osogbo has been razed by fire, which destroyed goods worth millions of naira. Residents of the area explained on Sunday that smoke was observed coming from the building late on Saturday. They said the fire had destroyed substantial part of the building before the arrival of firemen, who responded to a distress call. A resident of Owode area, Dauda Alli, said six shops were affected by the inferno. “Some residents observed smoke from the building and raised the alarm. Firemen responded to the distress call early, but major parts of the building had been razed down. Goods lost to the incident are worth millions of naira,” he stated. According to him, items destroyed by the inferno include sewing machines, deep freezers, several packs of insecticides and mattresses, among others. The spokesman for the Osun State Fire Service, Ibrahim Adekunle, said,  “The fire involved a commercial building, which comprises six shops. It was severely damaged as a result of late reporting to the fire service. We, however, put the situation under control and prevented escalation to adjoining buildings.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com