Children’s Day is a day set aside to celebrate children and make them feel special. The day, which is celebrated in Nigeria on May 27 annually, is an opportunity for parents and guardians to appreciate and celebrate children in any way they can. However, finance can stand as an impediment to planned celebrations, but the good news is, there are still ways to celebrate Children’s Day without breaking the bank. The PUNCH highlights six ways to celebrate Children’s Day on a budget. Buy simple presents
Children love gifts; and no matter how small you think the presents may be, they will surely appreciate them.
Such presents could be sunglasses, wristwatches, hair ribbons, and other little fancy things children desire. Dine out with the children
Most children are used to eating at home regularly. So, a good way to make the children feel special on Children’s Day is by letting them eat out.
You can take them to a restaurant (based on your budget) and get them to eat something different from what they usually eat at home. Such acts will spark up a sense of happiness in them, making the children feel more celebrated. Try sporting activities
Children love sporting activities as it makes them flex their muscles. Bicycle riding, swimming, or races can make children happy.
Organising sports activities among children in the same vicinity is also an amazing idea. This boosts bonding, makes the children excited, and increases the fun of the day. Visit other families
To reduce the costs of celebrating Children’s Day, taking the children on a visit to a family member is enough to get them excited. Even if you cannot take them out on parades, to cinemas or amusement parks, taking children out to visit their friends is a good way to celebrate. Prepare new dishes
Children love new dishes and you can dazzle them with exciting dishes on Children’s Day.
Asides from the usual food they eat every day, you could try making something different like snacks, smoothies, or cookies. Getting them involved in the process also sparks excitement. Engage children in indoor games
Children love games and you can easily engage them in indoor games on Children’s Day.
You can also use this time to teach them how to play games such as board games, card games, or digital games.
Best way to make it more exciting? Let them win in all games!