Nigeria power generation and supply have been poor for years despite the fact that licences for production of over 30,000 megawatts have been issued but remain unutilised, OKECHUKWU NNODIM writes A total of 124 licences issued to investors for the generation of over 30,000 megawatts of electricity have remained dormant due to the poor performance of the power sector, investigations have shown. Findings showed that only about 25 licensees currently generate power to the national grid, while 124 others have held on to their licences, watching and waiting for the business environment to be conducive. The licensees are contained in a document obtained from the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission on the list of licences issued to licensees pursuant to Part IV of the Electric Power Sector Reform Act. In the document, the commission issued licences to 162 investors for either power generation, transmission or distribution. Out of the 162 investors, 149 got licences for the generation of electricity. The 25 power generation companies that generate what the country currently consumes have an installed capacity of over 11,000MW, but produce less than 6,000MW and are owed over N1tn by the sector. They told our correspondent that this alone was a huge disincentive to other power generation licensees who had yet to start producing electricity despite being licensed by the NERC. Also, they stated that while an installed generation capacity of over 11,000MW could be produced by Gencos, the transmission and distribution ends of the sector lacked the capacity to transmit or distribute this quantum of power. “The power market is bad and apart from other factors, this is one major concern to licensees,” a former NERC Chairman, Dr. Sam Amadi, told our correspondent. Nigeria’s highest ever peak power generation is about 5,800MW and it was generated early this month. Findings showed that 149 power generation licences, including those producing currently, have been issued by the NERC to investors to generate electricity in various states across the country. Data obtained from the commission in Abuja showed that three categories of power generation licences were issued to investors. They include power generation on-grid, embedded generation and generation off-grid, although the regulator gave out captive permits to another group of 36 holders to generate electricity that must not be sold to third parties. It was observed that the NERC issued more generation on-grid licences than licences issued for embedded power generation and off-grid generation. Most investors got licences to generate on-grid power, as the major power producers including those that acquired the six generation companies that were unbundled from the defunct Power Holding Company of Nigeria, were within this category. The NERC stated that at present, the Federal Government had fully divested its interest in the six Gencos. It outlined the generation companies created following the unbundling of PHCN to include the 776MW gas-fired Afam Power Plc and the 414MW gas-fired Sapele Power Plc. Others include the gas-fired 1,020MW and 900MW Egbin Power Plc and Ughelli Power Plc, respectively. The remaining are hydro power plants which include the 760MW Kainji Power Plant, 578MW Jebba Power Plant and 600MW Shiroro Power Plant. The above power plants are currently generating power to the grid, although not at full capacities. The NERC stated that the generation sub-sector presently had 23 grid-connected generating plants in operation with a total installed capacity of 10,396MW, while available capacity was 6,056MW. It said the installed capacity of thermal based generation was 8,457.6MW, while its available capacity was 4,996MW. For hydropower, the total installed capacity was put at 1,938.4MW with an available capacity of 1,060MW. “This comprises the privatised Gencos, Independent Power Producers and the generating stations under the National Integrated Power Project,” the commission stated. The IPPs are power plants managed by the private sector prior to the privatisation process. These include Shell operated – Afam VI (642MW), Agip operated – Okpai (480MW), Ibom Power, NESCO and AES Barges (270MW). However, data obtained from the Nigeria Power Baseline Report, prepared by the Advisory Power Team in the Office of the Vice President, put the number of grid connected power plants at 25. It outlined the plants to include Egbin, Afam VI, Okpai, Delta, Jebba, Olorunsogo Gas, Ihovbor NIPP, Geregu NIPP and Kainji. Others include Olorunsogo NIPP, Omotosho NIPP, Omotosho Gas, Shiroro, Geregu Gas, Sapele NIPP and Ibom. The report further named others as Sapele, Alaoji NIPP, Odukpani NIPP, Afam IV-V, Asco, Omoku, Trans Amadi, AES Gas and Rivers IPP. Officials of the NERC stated that the above mentioned power plants were currently operating and delivering electricity to the grid at various capacities. They, however, noted that many other licensees had yet to construct plants to start supplying power to the grid. About 124 licensees had yet to start producing electricity and some of them include Ethiope Energy Limited with an on-grid license to generate 2,800MW of electricity. Some other selected on-grid licensees include Knox J&L Energy Solutions Limited, 1,000MW; MBH Power Limited, 700MW; Zuma Energy Nigeria Limited, 400MW; and Century Power Generation Limited, 495MW. A few others are Supertek Electric Limited, 500MW; Calabar Generation Company, 561MW; Chevron Nigeria Limited, 289MW; Ikot Abasi Power Project Limited, 250MW; Qua Iboe Power Plant Limited, 575MW; and Yellowstone Electric Power Limited, 350MW. The NERC explained that it was in furtherance of the power sector reform programme that it also licensed several private Independent Power Producers some of which were at various stages of project development. The commission, it was learnt, had also enacted the Bulk Procurement Guidelines that would ensure the efficient and orderly procurement of large capacity generation in the future. Although the commission was silent on whether the licensees were given timelines to produce power, stakeholders said it was vital to give timelines and apply sanctions were necessary. “There should be timelines, by the way this is business and we need power in Nigeria. It is only when you know the timelines that you can apply sanctions against defaulters,” the National Secretary, Nigeria Electricity Consumer Advocacy Network, Uket Obonga, said. Why many licences are dormant Speaking on why the country had 124 dormant licences for power generation with only about 25 licensees currently producing electricity, the former NERC chairman said the risks in the market were so high. Amadi said, “The issue is very simple, firstly, many of those licensees do not have the capacity. Secondly, the market is tough and for a very long time we have not had up to four new power plants being constructed in the sector. “Apart from Azura (461MW gas-fired station), there is no new power plant that is on. Even the much talked about Aba Power by Geometrics has not come on. So typically, many investors took licenses but cannot generate power. “This is because you need financing. Electricity production is not financed with funds that you just take out of your pocket. It is about 70 per cent debt or equity. So the market is bad. Nobody is putting money.” Amadi, who was the NERC chairman from 2010 to 2015, stated that many investors had approached the commission claiming that they had financiers with deep pockets. He noted that after issuing licenses to the investors, many of them got stuck when it was time to sign Power Purchase Agreements for gas supply, while those who scaled through gas PPA could not construct plants. He said, “They came to us and said they had financiers from China Eximbank and many big names in the financial sector, but when they now have to go and sign the PPA for gas, then they are stuck. “For those who signed, many could not construct. Some have been licensed for over four years but they’ve not started any serious construction because they don’t have funders. “This again is due to the fact that the market is not good and as such people are not funding it. Azura Power did well because it was the first project financed power plant, meaning that virtually all its components had different financiers.” On the way forward, the former NERC boss said the Federal Government would definitely have to further intervene in the power business. He said the risks in Nigeria’s power sector currently was too high for private investors to take. Amadi said the National Integrated Power Projects model should be adopted, where power plants would be built by the government and leased or sold to investors. He said, “The way forward for me is that the government should build the power plants and sell or lease them to the private sector. It will be difficult for private entities to build power plants in Nigeria quickly. “Look at the market risks, Discos remittances and revenue challenges. People are not paying, Discos are not remitting as required and the revenue is not encouraging. “The NIPP model is the best model. Let’s have about 13,000MW available everyday and effectively distributed by the Discos. When you have that, the sector will get investments.” Amadi said the dormancy by licensees to invest in generating electricity was a testimony to the fact that investors were losing faith in the power sector. “So the failure of the licensees to invest is simply a failure of faith of the private sector in the industry. I’ve always argued that the private sector is there for their money,” he stated. Amadi added, “But government can put in money without caring much about the risks. Even if you increase tariffs, it will take a long time before it results into profit-making for the private sector. Can they (private investors) wait that long to recover their investments? “The private sector cannot do the huge investment required now in Nigeria power sector because already some of them have collected so much money to put in the business. “But the government can make such investments and hand them over to the private sector to manage, drive, improve and sustain them.” Also speaking on why licensees had refused to generate electricity, operators who currently produce electricity stated that they were being over N1tn by the sector and this had been a source of discouragement to investors. “If I am not feeling well, how will another person come inside this place that is full of sick people? So it is very clear. Gencos are owed over N1tn and you want others to come inside this power generation business?” an impeccable source with the Gencos stated. The official, who pleaded not to be named due to the nature of the subject, stated that most of the licensees had been engaging Gencos and were waiting to see whether there would be an improvement in the sector. One of the licensees who had yet to construct his power plant, however, stated that most licensees were initially serious about investing in power generation, stressing that the cost of being licensed by the NERC was actually huge. “If you check the cost of getting a license from NERC, it is a lot of money and is in dollars. So if somebody will decide to get a license, it means the person is serious for business,” the licensee who spoke on condition of anonymity stated. He added, “Some of the conditions to obtain the license include that you must have a land, fully paid for or a sound leased one, you need to have a transmission agreement and many more demands. “It is after getting all of these before NERC will give you a license. By that time the investor must have spent a lot of money running into several millions of naira before getting to the licensing point. “So for somebody to go through that rigour and then not continue, you should know that he must have met something heavier than his or her capacity.” On the way forward, the licensee stated that policy makers in Nigeria would have to look at the role of power in the economy so as to appreciate why they must support the business of electricity generation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com