THE House of Representatives has vowed to ensure that the Federal Government accounts for all assets and funds recovered from looters of public treasury, especially as it has uncovered that ministries, departments and agencies have been “borrowing” money without refunding them. The House’ Ad hoc Committee on Assessment and Status of All Recovered Loots Movable and Immovable Assets from 2002 to 2020 by Agencies of the Federal Government of Nigeria for Effective Efficient Management and Utilisation said it has uncovered the illegal spending of the recovered loot without appropriation by the National Assembly. The committee at its investigative hearing on Tuesday grilled the Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami (SAN); and the Accountant General of the Federation, Mr. Ahmed Idris. Documents were presented to Malami and Idris showing how deductions were made from the recovered assets, which the lawmakers said would not be made public for security reasons. One of the documents is a letter from the Office of the National Security Adviser. Some of the funds were allegedly used for security purposes. A prominent member of the committee, who spoke to our committee on the condition of anonymity, noted that the panel had obtained documents from the Central Bank of Nigeria showing the withdrawals, including the approvals, upon which the apex bank released the funds. He said at least, $20m, N23bn and N20bn had been separately withdrawn from the recovered funds. The source also disclosed that the withdrawals had been made since Kemi Adeosun was minister of Finance. According to the lawmaker, one of the approvals was also given when the Vice-President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo (SAN), was acting President. According to him, instead of seeking National Assembly approval through virement or supplementary budget, the government MDAs and officials resorted to “borrowing” from the recovered loot. The lawmaker asked why those who claimed to have borrowed the funds had yet to refund them despite that they had received several allocations after. He said, “The issue is that, for any reason, what they should have done if they needed extra fund is to go to the National Assembly and present a supplementary budget. But they did not bring a supplementary budget; they were just spending from this money. “Our country is in a mess. They are borrowing from (recovered) looted funds. They are borrowing it illegally.” The Chairman of the committee, Adejoro Adeogun, in his ruling, said the accountant-general would reappear before the lawmakers on Thursday. He, however, said the hearing would be held behind closed doors for security reasons. Adeogun said, “Some of these issues have to do with financial security and for many reasons, we are not disclosing certain information to members of the public. At the same time, as a committee, we need to know. That is why we wrote that you present this in paper.” Earlier, Malami, while responding to some questions, told the committee that assets that had been permanently forfeited were transferred “exclusively” to the Federal Ministry of Finance, Budget and National Planning. “The Office of the Attorney-General (of the Federation) has no role whatsoever to play as far as the administration of those funds is concerned,” the minister stated. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com