The Lagos State Government has said the residents of the state will enjoy affordable housing, adding that reduction of housing deficits is important to the present administration. The Commissioner for Housing, Moruf Akinderu-Fatai, stated this on Tuesday during the ministerial press briefing in Alausa, Ikeja, as part of the second year anniversary of Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu. He said the government housing policies would enable more residents to become home owners in spite of the economic situation. Akinderu-Fatai, “Based on the all-inclusive stance of the Sanwo-Olu-led administration, there are completed and ongoing housing projects in all parts of the state and all categories of residents have the opportunity of accessing the housing schemes.” He said some of the housing schemes included Lateef Jakande Gardens in Igando, Lagos State Affordable Public Housing Scheme in Idale, Badagry; LAGOSHOMS Lekki Phase 2; Babatunde Raji Fashola Estate, and Courtland Villas, Ignokushu, among others. Fatai explained the houses would reasonably priced as they targeted both low and high income earners and also provided employment for the people. “It gladdens the heart that there are intense construction activities on many housing estates all over the state, revitalising the housing delivery value chain. The fact that the construction sites are active means economic engagement for hundreds of artisans, suppliers and contractors. This brings a vibrancy that increases the economy of the people.” He reiterated that through the Rent-to-Own scheme that would be created by the government in partnership with the private sector, many Lagosians would realise their dreams of becoming property owners. “The task of bridging the housing gap in Lagos is mammoth; hence private sector’s participation is required in reducing the hardship faced by the people in their quest for decent shelter,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com