The Governor of Ebonyi State, Dave Umahi, has said states are struggling to survive owing to the dwindling revenue allocations to them. Umahi, who is Chairman of the South-East Governors’ Forum, said this on Thursday when he featured on ‘Politics Today’, a current affairs programme of Channels Television. The governor stated this in response to the question if the states were ready for the shock posed by dwindling revenue. He said, “I don’t believe that the states should be allowed to further get any shock. The states are already bleeding; the states are already in a very bad situation. And the security of the nation, the states are shouldering that; to empower the youths, to create welfare for our people. The situation is very challenging. I will not advocate a situation in which there is further shock on the finances of the states.” The governor said he and his colleagues would “sit with our leaders at the centre and be able to see how the situation will be managed, because a state is as strong as the weakest state. If one state is in trouble, the rest of the states are in trouble.” “I’m sure that we are going to discuss it and try to find solution to that,” he added. Responding to a question on what could be the real cause of the recent escalation of attacks in the South-East and other parts of the country, Umahi said the problem did not develop overnight. He stated, “It is there as a result of the failure of past leaders to address the future of our youths. And this is the truth. So, it is not a question of blaming Mr President or blaming governors or blaming the APC or the PDP. It is systematic and it has been there for a very long time. I think that the situation is such that we must employ sincerity in our approach; we must deploy consultation, wisdom and prayers. “Before these things are put together, I’m sure that the insecurity in the country will become a thing of the past.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com