A car sales agent, Martins Izuchukwu, has been arrested by men of the Anti-Car Theft of the Federal Capital Territory Police Command after his partner, identified simply as Thankgod, allegedly absconded with the N1.2m a customer paid for a car at Nyanya in the Abuja Municipal Area Council. Izuchukwu was said to have advertised the car on his WhatsApp status and Thankgod, who saw it on his timeline, told him that someone was interested in purchasing it. It was learnt that Izuchukwu took Thankgod and the customer to inspect the car at the seller’s office. After the inspection and negotiations, Thankgod allegedly went behind the agent and the seller to collect N1.2m for the car from the intending buyer and absconded with the money. Speaking with PUNCH Metro, Izuchukwu’s mother, Adanne, said her son was being detained unjustly despite paying for his bail. She said, “My son has so far spent 45 days in illegal detention. He came to Abuja in search of a job last year. When he couldn’t get a job, he became a car sales agent. He makes money from the commission on successful deals. “Thankgod saw the car on his WhatsApp status and told my son that he had a buyer for it. My son took Thankgod and the prospective buyer to inspect the car and negotiate with the seller. “On the day they agreed to meet, my son waited but Thankgod and the buyer didn’t show up. My son later received a call from the buyer that Thankgod sent him a bank account number where the money was deposited. When my son called Thankgod’s phone, it was switched off and he also blocked him on WhatsApp.” Adanne said the account that Thankgod used in receiving the money belonged to a yet-to-be-identified lady, adding that the police released the lady, but refused to free her son. She stated, “The original seller was confused. He said he didn’t send any account details to the buyer, who insisted that he couldn’t release his vehicle. The account number that Thankgod used in receiving the money was newly opened and belonged to a lady. When the police got the lady, they discovered that the money had been withdrawn from the account. “I don’t know the relationship between Thankgod and the lady. The police arrested my son and the lady, they wrote their statements. The police later released the lady and detained my son, saying he belonged to a syndicate of scammers. The police said my son would have to pay N1.2m if Thankgod was not found. “I was only able to raise N300,000. I also provided N50,000 for bail. I got a lawyer, who is helping me with the case. The police also confirmed that they’ve received various reports about Thankgod being a scammer.” PUNCH Metro learnt that the Rule of Law and Accountability and Advocacy Centre petitioned the police on Friday regarding Izuchukwu’s continued detention. When contacted, Izuchukwu’s lawyer, Nnah Raymond, said, “The police, on Friday, said he would be granted bail, but his mother said the bail conditions were too stringent. I don’t know the bail conditions yet. I will go there on Monday (today) to find out. “I have also reached out to the Deputy Commissioner of Police. The police also told me that attempts to apprehend Thankgod have been difficult, because he changes locations anytime they try to track him down.” When contacted, the FCT Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Mariam Yusuf, told PUNCH Metro that the case was still under investigation. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com