Israel and Hamas, the Islamists who control Gaza, announced a ceasefire Thursday aimed to close 11 days of deadly fighting that pounded the Palestinian enclave and forced countless Israelis to seek shelter from rockets. The truce brokered by Egypt, that also included Gaza’s second most powerful armed group, Islamic Jihad, was agreed following mounting international pressure to stem the bloodshed. A statement from Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s office said the security cabinet had “unanimously accepted the recommendation of all of the security officials… to accept the Egyptian initiative for a mutual ceasefire without pre-conditions, to take effect at a time to be determined”. Hamas and Islamic Jihad then confirmed the ceasefire in a statement, saying it would come into force at 2:00 am Friday (2300 GMT Thursday). The Israeli statement said its aerial campaign earned “unprecedented” achievements in Gaza, a territory it has blockaded since 2007, the year of Hamas’s takeover. “The political leadership emphasises that it is the reality on the ground that will determine the future of the operation,” it added. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Thursday he would be “prepared at any time to go to Israel, to the Middle East, if that would serve the purpose of moving beyond the violence and helping to work on improving lives for Israelis and Palestinians alike”. – Egypt to monitor -Fighting erupted on May 10 after weeks of tensions in Jerusalem sharply escalated. The Israeli army said Hamas and other Islamist armed groups in Gaza have fired more than 4,300 rockets towards Israel, but the overwhelming majority of those headed for populated areas were intercepted by its Iron Dome air defences. The rockets have claimed 12 lives in Israel, including two children and an Israeli soldier, with one Indian and two Thai nationals among those killed, the police say. Israeli strikes on Gaza have killed 232 Palestinians, including 65 children, fighters and another 1,900 wounded, according to the Gaza health ministry, leaving vast areas in rubble and displacing some 120,000 people, according to Hamas authorities. Diplomatic sources told AFP in Cairo that “two Egyptian delegations will be dispatched to Tel Aviv and the Palestinian territories to monitor its (the ceasefire) implementation and procedures to maintain stable conditions permanently.” US President Joe Biden, who on Wednesday had increased the pressure on Netanyahu by saying he expected a “significant de-escalation” this week, was scheduled to address the ceasefire announcement at the White House. – ‘Stay home’ -As Israeli officials were meeting to approve the proposal, rocket fire continued towards communities near the Gaza border. In an indication of possible further rocket fire before hostilities pause, Israel’s army ordered the area’s residents to stay in their homes “until further notice.” “All movement and activity in open space is prohibited,” the army said on Twitter, as air raid sirens continued to wail in the area. Shortly after the truce was announced, Islamic Jihad boasted that it had “managed to humiliate” Israel. The group also vowed to remain the defender of Palestinians in Jerusalem, the divided city where weeks of simmering tensions exploded earlier this month, triggering the Gaza conflict. – Tensions in Jerusalem -Israel’s bombardment of what it describes as military targets in Gaza began after Hamas launched rockets towards Jerusalem. Hamas had given Israeli forces a 6:00 pm deadline on May 10 to leave the Al-Aqsa mosque compound, one of Islam’s holiest sites. Israeli police had stormed the site during the holy fasting month of Ramadan, in response to Palestinian stone throwing and other rioting. Israel military sources have said that in response to Hamas’s attack on Jerusalem it decided to launch an operation aimed at heavily degrading the Islamist group that has controlled Gaza since 2007. The Israeli army said it hit hundreds of military targets in Gaza and killed dozens of militant commanders. Netanyahu said the campaign set Hamas and Islamic Jihad back “many years.” Palestinian and international groups accused Israel of recklessly hitting non-military sites during the campaign. Israel says it takes all steps to avoid civilian casualties, including by phoning residents to warn them of imminent strikes, and blames Hamas for placing weapons and military sites in densely populated areas. The bombing campaign forced many of Gaza’s two million to seek shelter in schools and mosques and desperate for reprieve. The military conflict has sharply heightened tensions and sparked violence between Jews and Arab-Israelis, while Palestinian protesters in the West Bank and east Jerusalem have repeatedly clashed with security forces. In the West Bank, the army has killed 25 Palestinians since the outbreak of hostilities. The worst death toll in years in the occupied Palestinian territory includes several Palestinians who the Israeli army said had attempted to ram or stab Israeli forces at checkpoints. AFP