The Kwara State Governor, AbdulRahman AbdulRazaq, has said that the state is working out a partnership with the Lagos State Government on rice production, which may see about N10bn investments over the next four years. Inaugurating the state’s agricultural subsidy scheme in Ilorin on Wednesday, Abdulrazaq said at least 10,000 farmers would have access to various subsidised inputs at 50 per cent of the market prices, which he noted aligned with the government’s strategic plan for food security and sustainable development. The governor told farmers that the intervention became necessary to compensate for their loss to the COVID-19 pandemic during the last farming season and to boost food production in the state. He said, “This initiative is part of the administration’s sustained efforts to use agriculture to drive economic growth and food security in the post COVID-19 pandemic era. I assure you that mechanisms have been put in place, especially reliable data, to ensure that these inputs get only to the intended farmers. “This programme is basically to improve productivity. We have to bring this subsidy, because our farmers went through a lot of hardship last year with COVID-19. So, we needed to step in to enable them to get fertilisers, improved seedlings and herbicides to boost production. “It is not just about food security in Kwara State, but in Nigeria as a whole. Farmers are farming largely without any problem in Kwara. We only need to support them. The aim is to achieve food security in Nigeria, not just in Kwara, from animal husbandry to all other facets of agriculture.” The governor added, “We have the land. We are negotiating with some states, especially Lagos. Lagos has arguably the biggest rice mill in Nigeria today, but it doesn’t have land. We want to take advantage of that and we are talking in that direction to have a MoU. And then, the Federal Government is working with us. We are working on the special agro processing zone to be located in Lata, which will see the investment of about N10bn going to agriculture in the Edu and Patigi local government areas alone in the next two to four years; so we need to scale up what we are doing in those areas. “This subsidy scheme gives our farmers easy access to certified seeds, assorted fertilisers and herbicides for the 2021 planting season at 50 per cent of the market prices.” He urged the farmers to make good use of the opportunity to have a more rewarding farming experience this year, adding that the efforts would lead to better outcomes and improved livelihood across the state. Kwara State House of Assembly Committee Chairman on Agriculture, Ojo Olayiwola, commended the state government for placing high premium on the agricultural sector with several support schemes to farmers in the state. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com