Some bandits have invaded communities in three local government areas of Giwa, Igabi and Chikun in Kaduna State, killing 10 people, including a community leader, while injuring no fewer than four persons in the attacks. The state Commissioner for Internal Security and Home Affairs, Mr. Samuel Aruwan, who confirmed the attack and counter attacks, was, however, silent on when the attack occurred. Aruwan also disclosed that crisis was brewing between members of Borno community in the state and the Nigerian Army in Sabon Gari Local Government Area of the state, assuring that the state was in control of the situation. According to the Commissioner, security agencies have reported that bandits invaded Na’ikko Village in Giwa LGA, killing three residents of the area. “The community volunteers engaged the bandits and in the ensuing gun duel, three residents were killed,” he said The Commissioner gave the names of those killed as Alhaji Shafiu, Alhaji Balailu Sani and Abdulsamad Hussaini. He added that in a reprisal attack, youths of Na’ikko Village attacked a nearby Fulani settlement, Rugan Abdulmuminu, and killed two persons whom they alleged to be involved in the earlier attack while identifying those killed as Abdulmuminu Agwai and Samaila Agwai. Similarly, the commissioner said some bandits also invaded Dakyauro Village, Sabon Birni, Igabi LGA and killed four persons after rustling about 25 cows. “The four persons killed were listed as Musbahu Yusuf, Basiru Jaafaru, Ja’afaru Yahaya, Umaru Sulaiman. Two persons were injured in the attack: Anas Ibrahim, Aisha Abbas,” he added. Meanwhile, the Commissioner said bandits killed a community leader, Dauda Adamu, at Ungwan Ayaba in Chikun LGA of the state. “Bandits also invaded farmlands on the outskirts of Gigani Village, Kerawa, Igabi LGA and rustled about 14 bulls being used by farmers to plough the land,” he added. The Commissioner said governor Nasir El-Rufai while receiving these reports, sent condolences to the families of all those who lost their lives in the attacks as well as prayed for the repose of their souls. “The Governor noted with deep concern the incidents in Na’ikko Village in Giwa LGA and appealed to residents to embrace recourse to law. “He implored them to avoid killings and reprisal actions that would prove utterly detrimental to peace in the area, as government was working closely with security agencies and stakeholders. “Governor El-Rufai assured farmers in the Giwa, Igabi, Birnin Gwari, Kajuru and Chikun LGAs of the government’s awareness of their plight, and that active steps are being taken towards ensuring that they would continue to pursue their livelihoods in safety,” he said. He added that the governor also addressed reports received on brewing tension in Bomo community, Sabon Gari LGA, between residents and the Nigerian Army. He said, “the Governor appealed to members of the community to maintain calm, as the matter had been reported and steps were being taken in conjunction with His Royal Highness, the Emir of Zazzau, to address the situation. “The Kaduna State Government has urged private schools operating in high-risk areas to adhere to the security advisories issued to them. This followed reports that some schools have continued to operate outside of the guidelines presented to them by the security agencies for the safety of their students and staff. “The Governor is also monitoring the developments in Kauru, Jema’a and Zangon Kataf LGAs, and working assiduously to enhance security and peace in the identified flash-points in these LGAs,” the Commissioner added.