The Management of Benin Electricity Distribution Company says it has developed a debt restructuring scheme for its customers. The company, in a statement made available to our correspondent, said under the scheme, customers’ debt repayment period would be extended to a maximum of 60 months depending on the debt profile in the serviced areas. The company’s Head of Public Affairs, Tayo Adekunle, confirmed this to reporters in Benin on Wednesday. Adekunle stated that the scheme was designed to woo customers and offer them various ranges of discounts and longer debt repayment periods. He said, “The scheme was also designed to address the growing outstanding electricity consumption debt. “Rescheduling scheme is in line with the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission Act that mandates electricity operators to recover costs on prudent investment and be able to provide quality services to customers. “This scheme has taken off across the franchise states of Delta, Edo, Ekiti, and Ondo. “It is designed in a customer-centric manner aiming to support esteemed customers to minimise debt repayment burdens and help them to gradually decrease accumulated debt.” Adekunle explained that the rescheduling scheme was applicable to customers with over N10,000 debts with a combined discount ranging from five per cent to 25 per cent. He said the repayment period would be between six and 60 months depending on customers’ profile, whether metered or estimated, debt range, and tariff band. He said, “Customers could be offered an additional rebate of five per cent in addition to the applicable discount if the remaining outstanding amount is paid instantly. “For customers who have outstanding debts and do not pay as and when due, disconnection of these parties will continue.” He reiterated BEDC’s commitment to providing increased quality in electricity supply in line with Service Reflective Tariff Regulation to its customers. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com