A15-year-old student of the Ceder International College, Abuja, Nimota Olatunde, has gone missing while trying to repair her torn school uniform. PUNCH Metro gathered that the disappearance of the student had caused panic among her family members and friends. Olatunde’s mother, Juliana Olajide, who lives in Jos, said on Thursday that her daughter had not been seen since the past one week after she took permission to fix her torn skirt by the school gate. She said, “It is now eight days since we last saw my 15-year-old daughter, Nimota Olatunde, who is in SS 2 class at Ceder International College, Abuja. “She was last seen in her school on Wednesday, April 28, 2021. “According to the school authorities, she went to sew her torn school skirt just by the school gate. “According to them, she was permitted to go through the primary section gate instead of the main entrance gate because of the way the skirt was torn. “Since then, no one has seen her. The school tailor also said that my daughter was not seen at the shop that day. “So, we don’t know what has happened to her.” The school principal, Olukotun Segun, said the case was already being investigated by the police. In another development, 13-year-old Treasure Ofunya, who went missing on April 28 while returning from her school, New Era Model School, Jakpa, Effurun, Delta State, has been found. “I got a call this morning from the Oghara Divisional Police Officer that Treasure was with them. “I quickly rushed to Oghara, which is near Sapele, and brought her back to Ekpan Police Divisional Headquarters for official documentation,” an elated member of the family, who spoke on condition of anonymity, told our correspondent. The victim’s elder brother, Merville, also confirmed the development. The Acting Police Public Relations Officer, Delta State, DSP Bright Edafe, said the victim had been reunited with her family. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com