The chance of a mechanical engineer in Ota, Ogun State, Adeyemi Odukomaiya, to have another shot at a healthy life and take care of his family now depends largely on his ability to raise N9m for kidney transplant. The father of two had been battling diabetes for 13 years but his condition worsened last year when he was diagnosed with a kidney problem. The 48-year-old told City Round that he had been on dialysis since October 2020, spending N70,000 on two sessions every week. He said, “I am diabetic and have been treating it for 13 years. It later affected my kidney. I am now on dialysis and I have two sessions per week. Each session is N35,000. The doctor has advised that I would undergo a kidney transplant. “I have been spending the little money I have on dialysis. My source of income has been dealt with because of my health condition.” Odukomaiya said he made enquiries at St Nicholas Hospital in Lagos on the cost of the transplant and was told that the procedure would cost N9m excluding post-transplant treatment. “I don’t have the means to raise N9m for the transplant. I appeal to people to help me,” he added. The notice of the bill signed by the head nurse of the Dialysis Unit at St Nicholas Hospital, M.E. Idoko, stated that “the money has to be completed before surgery can take place.” It added, “We also encourage the deposit of an additional N1m to cover at least six month post-transplant drugs as we have discovered that many people lack the funds to purchase their drugs for the first six months, which is crucial to the survival of the kidney. Please note it is optional.” Donations for Odukomaiya can be made to his First Bank account with the name, Odukomaiya Adeyemi and account number: 3015647455. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com