National leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, on Saturday, mourned the death of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, and 10 others in a plane crash in Kaduna State on Friday evening. Tinubu, in a condolence message by his media office, condoled with the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), the Nigerian Army, the Defence Headquarters, and the families of the deceased military officers, describing the deaths as a tragic, unspeakable loss for the nation. He said, “Lt. Gen. Attahiru and the others were stalwarts and brave soldiers who had dedicated their careers, and now their very lives, to the service of this nation and towards the realisation of the noble aspirations this nation represents. “COAS Attahiru had a most distinguished career. The army and the nation will miss his excellent character and fine leadership at this moment when we are fighting terrorism or banditry in many parts of the nation. “Lt. Gen. Attahiru, just like the others involved in this tragic incident, served his country with zeal and vigour. He was known as a soldier’s soldier. Their untimely and sad departure hurts. However, we owe it to them and to the nation to gather our strength and fortitude.” The former Lagos State governor called on members of the public to gird themselves to finish the job to which the departed officers dedicated and gave their lives, saying the deceased and all fallen soldiers would all be remembered for their meritorious service to the country. “Let us remember these brave patriots not with our tears but by achieving victory over the terrorism and violence that seek to rob our nation of its finest destiny. Let this unfortunate accident not deter us but spur us and our valiant military to continue to defend this land from violence and evil. “We owe them a debt of gratitude that we can never truly repay except by defeating the violent challenges that now confront us. I pray for a repose of the souls of these men and also pray that God grant the families of these brave officers the fortitude to bear this loss. “This tragedy reminds us all, once again, of the great patriotism of the brave men and officers who put their lives at risk in defence of our fatherland. Let us commit ourselves anew to appreciating, supporting and encouraging them at all times,” he added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com