The Federal Government on Wednesday moved to enhance security at the new headquarters of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission located in Jabi, Abuja in other to protect it from attacks with the approval of security equipment totalling N805.7m for the facility. The approval was given at the weekly meeting of the Federal Executive Council presided over by Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo. Osinbajo stood in for the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), who is on a four-day official visit to France. The Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, disclosed the approval to State House correspondents at the end of the meeting. Mohammed recalled that from 2011 upwards, there have been various attacks on government institutions and multilateral institutions like the United Nations’ building. He said it was based on those attacks in 2011, 2014 and 2018, that the Federal Government set up the Vulnerability Assessment Committee to see how to better protect the premises of ministries, departments, and agencies. He said, “It is in line with this that the EFCC, today presented to council a memo seeking approval for the procurement of four sets of automatic and static anti-crush boulder system, with automatic vehicle scanners and other accessors, linear metres perimeter fencing, intrusion detection system and human screening equipment, four walk-through metal detectors, two handheld metal scanners, one luggage scanner and three handheld explosive trace detectors, all at the value of N805,738,541.95, inclusive of the 7.5% VAT, with the completion period of 12 weeks. “The memo was approved by council.” The minister added that the council approved the contract for the purchase of 16 vehicles for the Federal Civil Service Commission in the sum of N336m. He added, “The second memo, which Mr. President presented today, is a memo seeking council’s approval for the procurement of 16 vehicles for the use of Federal Civil Service Commission. “You know we have 16 members of the FCC; the Chairman and 15 commissioners representing the states and they normally embark on extensive advocacy visits and team oversight functions to ministries, departments, and agencies across the country.
“So, they asked for replacement of the old unserviceable vehicles and the council duly approved the purchase of one Toyota Landcruiser V8 and 15 Toyota Rush, all at a total of N336,216,198.” The council also approved various other projects under the Ministries of Aviation and Water Resources, bringing the total approval to N10.168 billion. The Minister of Aviation, Hadi Sirika, said the council approved a contract to procure a towable mobile office for the Accident Investigation Bureau of the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority. He said, “The contract is for the procurement, equipment, and installation of accident investigation towable mobile offices in favour of Messrs. Crases Integrity Services Limited. The total contract sum is N201,150,437.21. “The purpose of this equipment, once purchased, if there is, God forbid, an accident anywhere, these mobile offices will be driven to the location and an office will be established for the purposes of taking data, collecting samples, and gathering information regarding the incident and then analysing them on site and tagging them and doing all sorts of things there and you know, this can take any time, sometimes a few hours, sometimes even weeks.” On his part, Minister of Water Resources, Suleiman Adamu, said the council approved the augmentation of two contracts that were affected by time overrun and inflation. The contracts, Bagwai Irrigation Project in Kano State and the Biu Water Supply Project in Borno State, got an aggregate of N8.825 billion.