All Progressives Congress chieftains, Bola Tinubu, Bisi Akande, and Olusegun Osoba, on Sunday, supported Southern governors’ open grazing ban, call for restructuring and state police. The APC leaders in the South-West region made this known when they met in Lagos State to discuss topical national issues. Other APC leaders at the meeting include Speaker of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila; Ogun State Governor, Dapo Abiodun; Lagos State Governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, amongst others. The PUNCH had earlier reported that about 17 southern governors met recently in Asaba, Delta State, and resolved to ban open grazing and movement of cattle by foot in the region. The governors called for the restructuring of the country along fiscal federalism, devolution of powers and state police. They also called on the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to address the nation and convoke a national dialogue to address widespread agitations amongst various groups in the region. The governors’ resolution also known as the Asaba Accord has raised dust, especially in Northern Nigeria, with many critics including Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, SAN; Senate President, Ahmad Lawan; Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello; and Senators Ali Ndume from Borno South Senatorial District, amongst others. But Tinubu, Akande, Osoba, Gbajabiamila, and other APC leaders in the South-West on Sunday endorsed the Asaba Accord in a communiqué issued at the end of their meeting. The communiqué partly read, “We endorse the position of the Southern Governors taken at their May 11, 2021 summit in Asaba, Delta State, regarding ranching. We do so because such a decision will lessen tensions between farmers and herders while also helping the long-term economic viability of both the farming and herding communities. “We are mindful of the short-term dislocation this might cause but are also mindful that this position is in the best interests of all parties concerned. “We, therefore, recommend that the federal and state governments cooperate fully with each other to enact the necessary measures to encourage this more effective and modern method of cattle-rearing so that both farmers and herders can pursue their livelihoods with greater productivity and in a more cooperative relationship that minimizes the friction between these two important pillars of our agricultural economy.” Also, the APC leaders expressed “strong opposition to separatist agitations and hate speeches” while urging “those indulging in such to desist forthwith, they renew their belief in the unity, stability and sustainability of the country”.