The Enugu State Command of the Nigerian Police Force on Tuesday confirmed the killing of four cops and the burning of its Divisional Police Headquarters in Iwollo, Ezeagu Local Government Area of the state. Our correspondent gathered that the gunmen had on Monday night invaded the station in their number and set the police division ablaze. Sources said that some policemen who put up resistance to stop the hoodlums from razing the station were gunned down, while some others sustained various degrees of injury. Confirming the incident, the State Police Public Relations Officer, Daniel Ndukwe, said a manhunt had been launched to track down the hoodlums. He appealed to the general public for information that would lead to their arrest. Ndukwe said in a statement that the State Commissioner, Mohammed Aliyu, had visited the station with members of his management team and Operational/Tactical Commanders for an on-the-spot assessment. He said that the hoodlums whose identities were yet to be known had stormed the station at about 0400hrs on Tuesday morning and opened fire on the police operatives who were on duty. He said, “The hoodlums, who came to the Station in their numbers, opened fire on Police Operatives on duty, but were gallantly resisted and in the ensuing gun duel, several of the assailants escaped with bullet injuries. “Unfortunately, four of the operatives, who sustained severe gunshot injuries, were later confirmed dead in the hospital, while parts of the Station was set ablaze by the assailants. “Meanwhile, the Commissioner, while condoling with family members and close friends of the policemen, who unfortunately paid the ultimate price in the line of duty; has ordered the intensification of already launched discreet investigation to fish out the assailants and their cohorts. “He further appeals to law-abiding citizens of the State to promptly volunteer useful information that will assist the Command in the ongoing investigation. “He also calls on them, especially operators of medical facilities in the State, to promptly report to the Police any person(s) found with gunshot injuries.”