Daniels Igoni, Yenagoa THE Deputy Governor of Bayelsa State, Lawrence Ewhrudjakpor, has denied allegations that his office was withholding funds belonging to Local Government Councils. Ewhrudjakpo said this while presiding over an enlarged meeting with council chairmen and councillors at the Chief Dappa Biriye Conference Centre in Yenagoa, on Tuesday. He described the speculation as untrue. This was contained in a statement, signed by his Senior Special Assistant on Media, Mr. Doubara Atasi, on Wednesday. The statement recalled that chairmen and councillors who were at the meeting unanimously agreed to save 50 per cent of monthly allocations for recurrent expenditure to cater for their severance and other unforeseen financial obligations. They also endorsed an earlier decision between the deputy governor and principal officers of the councils that 60 per cent of local governments’ monthly allocation should be used for capital expenditure while 40 per cent should be used for recurrent. In Bayelsa, the office of the deputy governor supervises the eight local government council areas of the state. He said he has his integrity to protect and would not engage in any unwholesome practices to tarnish his image, warning those behind such smear campaigns to stop forthwith. The deputy governor was quoted as saying, “Let me now address the rumour and unfounded story about the Deputy Governor withholding council funds. As chairmen, you know I have not collected and will not collect anything (gratification) from you. “I want to state that some of us have integrity and will do all we can to protect it. I don’t know where the rumour is coming from. I am not in the government to destroy myself and my image. So, I will not allow anybody to use me to ride his or her political horse. “The 60 per cent for capital and 40 per cent for recurrent expenditure decisions and even the idea of saving was collectively agreed. So, why are some of you going about telling your councillors and traditional rulers that it is my office that is withholding your funds?” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com