A former General Officer Commanding, 1 Division, Nigerian Army, Maj. Gen. Abiodun Role (retd), says the death of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, and 10 other army and Air Force officers will not dampen the morale of the military in their fight to restore peace to Nigeria. Role, while speaking in an interview with our correspondent on Saturday, however described the crash of the aircraft as a very unfortunate incident which he said had added to the grief of the nation. Role said, “This is most unfortunate. The incident happened at the time the whole nation is grieving about general insecurity. It’s so sad; so sad because the victims of this accident were people who were trying to reinvigorate the service and trying to motivate by personal examples so that the personnel of the armed forces are all encouraged to do their best. It was an accident but it was one accident too many. It has added to the grief of the whole nation. “The incident won’t dampen the morale of those in service. I am particularly happy about the immediacy of the burial and also with the courage with which all members of the armed forces have taken the situation. That is the way of life, when something like this happens, those alive will just have to carry on. I pray that our country will be better for it.” Army, Navy postpone passing out parades, other events The Nigerian Army and the Nigerian Navy have postponed some public events in the light of the death of the Chief of Army Staff, Attahiru, and others. The Assistant Director, Army Public Relations, Nigerian Army Depot, Zaria, Capt. Audu Arigu, who spoke to the News Agency of Nigeria on Saturday, announced the postponement of the passing- out parade of its 80 Regular Intakes. Arigu said, “I shall update you on the necessary actions taken as there is no fixed date yet.” The ceremony was originally scheduled for May 22 with the late Army chief serving as Reviewing Officer and Special Guest of Honour. He was also expected to commission a new medical centre for the depot as part of the event. Similarly, the Chief of the Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Awwal Gambo, in a statement by the Navy spokesperson, Commodore Suleman Dahun, ordered the cancellation of events slated to mark the 65th anniversary of the Nigerian Navy, NAN reports. The statement read, “The CNS commiserates with the nation and offers the condolences of officers and ratings of the Nigerian Navy to Mr President, the Nigerian Army and the Nigerian Air Force, as well as families of the departed. May their souls rest in peace.” It added that the death of Gambo’s fellow service chief had put the Army, Navy, Air Force and the entire Defence circle in a sombre mood. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com