The Cold War era was marked by building of military might by powerful nations across the globe. The country which was ahead in weapons technology had an advantage over others; not only in building its own power but also in spreading its influence to other countries through export of weapons and technology. The spread of the COVID-19 virus in the past one and a half years has shaken the foundations of the world order, with the total number of deaths running into millions. This virus cannot be fought with weapons, conventional or nuclear. The means to combat it is vaccine that can build immunity in human body. The possession of a reliable vaccine is thus emerging as an important symbol of power and prestige for a nation in the global order; a reliable vaccine that can be used by a country not only to build the immune system of its own citizens, but also to enhance its influence and to establish its technological prowess in the international arena by helping other nations with the vaccine, either by way of donation or by sale. Ever since the end of the Cold War and the collapse of the Soviet Union, China is claiming it has emerged as the alternative centre of power in the world; capable of challenging the might of the only superpower, the United States, economically as well as militarily. In the changed scenario dominated by COVID-19 virus, however, China is falling behind in the race. Though China has often been blamed for spreading the virus globally, with COVID-19 breaking out in an epidemic form first in its Wuhan province, the country has not yet been able to produce a vaccine that is reliable enough to fight the disease. In fact, among all the different vaccines against COVID-19 that have hit the market in the past few months, the reliability of Chinese vaccines is on the lower side. Medical News Today, a web-based outlet for medical information, has arranged in a list 13 COVID-19 vaccines currently authorised in terms of efficacy. Four of these vaccines developed in China are low on the list, with the one, Sinovac, that China is mostly exporting to other countries, being the 11th, with an efficacy of 50.4 per cent. CanSino, a vaccine developed jointly by the Chinese military and a Tianjin-based biotech company, has an efficacy rate of 65.2 per cent, the Beijing institute of Sinopharm has a vaccine with an efficacy of 79.3 per cent while the Wuhan institute of Sinopharm has developed a vaccine with a lower efficacy rate of 72.5 per cent. By contrast, the vaccine developed by BioNTech, a German company, in collaboration with the American company, Pfizer, has an efficacy rate of 95 per cent. The Pfizer – BioNTech vaccine tops the list in terms of efficacy. BioNTech is marketing its vaccine in China, too, but there it is reported to be producing the vaccine in collaboration with China-based company, Fosun Pharma. Moderna, a US-based company, has developed a vaccine with an efficacy of 94.5 per cent, the second on the list of vaccines in terms of efficacy. Third on the list comes Sputnik V, a vaccine developed, as the name suggests, by Russia, with an efficacy rate of 91.6 per cent. The next on the list come the two vaccines produced in India, Covishield, manufactured by Serum Institute of India in collaboration with Oxford-AstraZeneca, with an efficacy rate of 81.3 per cent, and Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech, with an efficacy rate of 80.6 per cent. The World Health Organisation mandates that a vaccine needs to afford at least 50 per cent protection rate to be considered effective. China has been supplying vaccines of various makes to different developing countries, but because of their limited reliability, Chinese vaccines have run into difficulties. Sri Lanka has refused to administer Sinopharm supplied by China, with senior medical experts in Colombo saying that the vaccine should not be used on Sri Lankan nationals. According to an ANI report from Colombo, Sri Lanka’s Association of Medical Specialists has said in a statement that there is “insufficient data provided to make a determination on the safety, efficacy and immunogenicity of the Sinopharm vaccine. It should not be used in Sri Lanka.” In fact, Sri Lanka is now preferring India-made Covishield and Russia-made Sputnik over the China-made Sinopharm, though China had offered to make a larger donation of dozes than India. Sri Lanka has already purchased 13.5 million doses of Covishield and plans to buy 13 million doses of Russia-made Sputnik. India had earlier donated half a million doses of Covishield to Sri Lanka. Because of a subsequent delay in supply from Serum Institute of India, Sri Lanka had to suspend its vaccination programme. China had donated 600,000 doses of Sinopharm. Biospace, a web magazine on life science, quotes an Epoch Times report that Sinovac produced in China is suspected to have adverse reactions, even death and severe disability, besides rashes, fever, nausea and diarrhoea, though the report has been hotly contested by Chinese authorities. A Reuters report from Thailand speaks of six reports of unusual “stroke-like” side effects among recipients of Sinovac vaccine. Thailand has received two million doses of Chinese vaccine and has ordered 1.5 million doses more, says the report. The Chinese vaccines have not yet received the approval of the World Health Organization. According to a Reuters report from Geneva, The WHO was expected to issue its recommendations on Chinese vaccines by the end of April. According to a Xinuha report from Geneva, the WHO was expected to assess Sinopharm for its emergency use listing on April 30 and Sinovac on May 5.Till the filing of this report, the WHO was still assessing the Chinese vaccines. Chinese vaccines have been in demand from some developing countries with limited access to vaccines made by Western drug-makers. Sinovac had showed varied efficacy readings based on trials from Brazil, Turkey and Indonesia. According to a BBC report, in Brazilian clinical trials, Sinovac has been found to be barely 50 per cent effective, the minimum needed for regulatory approval. It is one of the two vaccines the Brazilian government has lined up for emergency use. Egypt has approved Sinovac for emergency use. The rampaging second wave of COVID-19 in India has put some south Asian countries dependent on Chinese supplies as India does not have many doses to spare for others. Nepal had started its vaccination drive with Covishield and Covaxin, but since only half of the two million shots ordered from India could be delivered, Nepal had to resume its vaccination programme with doses from China’s Sinopharm vaccine. Bangladesh, dependent on vaccine supply from India, has got into difficulty as well. India had earlier gifted 20 million doses of Covishield to Bangladesh and later Dhaka had decided to purchase 30 million doses of the vaccine, but has so far received seven million doses. By contrast, Beijing has offered Dhaka 600,000 doses of the Chinese vaccine. Dr Said, an Asian studies expert, is based in the UK. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com