Radiology is an aspect of medicine that is rarely discussed until people need a scan done. Why is this? Radiology is a subspecialty in medical practice in which you make diagnosis and treat with different equipment. It has been there but it is not a widespread, popular part of medicine and that is why many people have never really known about radiology until several years ago when diagnostic medicine became popular. That is why radiology has been at the back of the practice of medicine. But from the beginning, radiology has been the bedrock of medicine. You make diagnoses for the other specialists to know what they really need to do; so, radiology is the bridge and the main foundation of the practice of medicine. What is radiology? Radiology is the aspect of medicine in which we use different equipment and machines on the different organs of the body to make specific diagnoses or check functions of those organs and it varies from using sound to magnets and X-rays to make the diagnoses. We can evaluate the (body) parts from the head to the toes—the muscles, the brain, every part of the body—you can use different equipment to make those diagnoses. So, radiology is the act of making a diagnosis of any disease of different organs. The word ‘radiology’ starts with using radiation to make a diagnosis. But now, we utilise more than radiation, that is, the X-ray, to make a diagnosis. So, ‘radiology’ is now a misnomer, because it is not only X-rays that we use to make diagnosis; we use ultrasound and MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging), which do not use radiation to make diagnosis. How has the technology for radiology evolved over the years? I can tell you that radiology is the most dynamic part of medicine. As recently as 40 years ago, the main way of making diagnosis was just to use radiation, that is X-ray and fluoroscopy. But within 40 years, we have developed the use of ultrasound, MRI and even computerised tomography, which also uses radiation. The rate of development there (CT) has really improved. We are talking of a situation in which we started with one CT slice, as we call them, which increased to two slices, four slices, eight slices and so on. Now, we are talking of close to 640-slice CT (scanners) with which we can scan the whole body and get all the images from the head to the toes within one minute. That is how dynamic the technology has been. In MRI also, we started with probably 0.5 Tesla, which is the strength of the magnets, probably 20 years ago. As of now, we are talking of an eight to 10-Tesla MRI, which can show you as little as the cells of the body. Of course, we have interventional radiology now, where you can go through blood vessels and block the blood flow to a tumour in any part of the body, so it can shrink, before the surgeons go in and operate on it. You have situations now in which you introduce some radioisotopic pellets into tumour cells, so that probably within a centimetre of that tumour, it can kill all the tumours around there, and that is the dynamism with which radiology has evolved. Also, radiology has evolved from just making diagnoses. It has gone into management, that is, treatment of diseases. That is where interventional radiology comes in. Within 40 years, we have got to a stage where we are just using images which you see in two dimensions to a situation in which you are seeing an image five-dimensionally. We have the technology now in which you can use 5D projectors to look inside a patient and see the organs working and know where the problems are. The most innovations in medicine now are in radiology. Do we have enough radiology equipment in Nigeria? As I said earlier, radiology is part of diagnosis and treatment now. The part that we use for treatment is called radiotherapy where you use high levels of X-ray to kill cancer cells. We also have radioisotopic pellets which you put inside cancerous areas to burn them off and kill them. We have linear accelerators, as we call them, which are the radiotherapy machines used. Now, I know they have a brand new one in Lagos University Teaching Hospital that was just installed one or two years ago. I know there is a new centre in the Lekki-Ajah axis (in Lagos State) that has just brought in another linear accelerator. I know up North in Zaria (Kaduna State), University College Hospital (Oyo State) and several other teaching hospitals, they tend to have radiotherapy units where they use the radiation to treat cancers. But are they enough? Nothing can be enough. I know a state like California (United States) has about 10 cancer treating centres and in the whole of Nigeria, I don’t think we have up to 10. What MRI machines? We have so many centres that have MRI (machines) now. They are all scattered all over Nigeria. But I can assure you, in diagnostic medicine in Nigeria, they are not enough. Though we have many in Lagos, if we are to weigh that in relation to other parts of the country, definitely, we don’t have enough diagnostic centres in Nigeria. I can say that we have more radiologists in Surulere, Lagos than in some states of the country. Within Surulere, we have between 30 and 40 radiologists and I am sure there are some states that do not have up to that. You have expressed concern about the proliferation of diagnostic centres being set up by radiographers. How dangerous is this? There are three questions I usually ask. The first is, is that person properly trained? The second is, is that person properly certified? That is, does he have a recognised certificate that he must practise what he is doing in diagnostic medicine? The third is, is that person registered with the bodies that control and regulate the practice of diagnostic medicine? I tell everybody that, if the answer to those three questions is no, then that person is a quack. Some people just get one or two months’ training and believe they can do scans or take X-rays. Some people get good training but they don’t have the certificates to do those things. Then, do they get registered by the regulatory authorities in those areas? If the answer is no, then that person is not qualified. And I say anywhere you go for diagnostic medicine, whether scan, X-ray, CT or MRI, always insist that a radiologist must report it. How do you know if the person is a qualified radiologist? His full name must be on that report. His qualification must be on that report, whether it is BSc, NBCHP (National Board for Community Health Practitioners of Nigeria) or a fellow. And of course, his designation must be on that report, whether he is a senior registrar, registrar or consultant. If there is a report without those three things, then that report is not qualified to be used to treat a patient. That is the global standard; it is not a Nigerian standard. What is mammography? Mammography is the use of X-ray to check for any changes in the breast and we know that four out of 10 women, sooner or later, may develop breast cancer due to many reasons. To pick them early, we usually encourage women above 40 years of age to have a mammogram done. I tell most women, ‘Make it your 40th birthday present.’ With that, we will know whether there is any growing there or not. However, if there is somebody who has a family history of breast cancer, maybe the mother, sister, aunty or grandmother and the person is not up to 40 years, she should have a breast scan done to evaluate her breast. Feeling a lump in the breast does not mean it is a cancer. So, a mammogram is something that everybody above 40 should have. That is what we call screening mammogram—to know whether there is cancer growing there or not. Then we have what is called a diagnostic mammogram. If there is a lump and there is a family history of cancer, we say, ‘We are suspecting this person has a high risk of developing cancer. Let’s have a mammogram done.’ What are some common misconceptions in radiology? I usually tell patients, ‘When you are told to go for a test, you should ask the doctor all the options you have.’ There are some diseases that an ultrasound will pick easily without any issue. There are some diseases that an X-ray alone will pick without going further. However, we know that there are some diseases that you may need to do a CT or MRI scan to get the diagnosis. When the doctor says, ‘I think you have a disease in any organ in your abdomen,’ you can use ultrasound, X-ray, CT or MRI. Ask the doctor which one will give you the most appropriate diagnosis early. If you have a problem with your liver, the ultrasound will pick it nine out of 10 times. If you have a problem with your bones, the X-ray will pick it nine out of 10 times. However, if you have problems with your joints and things like that, the MRI will pick it nine out of 10 times. So, ask your doctor which one will give you the definitive, concise diagnosis early, not just using a gamut of tests to do it. What I usually tell people to ask their doctor is, ‘If you were suffering from this disease, which of these tests would you do?’ Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com