Heirs Oil & Gas, an African integrated energy company, has appointed Osayande Igiehon as its chief executive officer, effective May 4. A statement, titled ‘Heirs Oil & Gas announces CEO and board appointments’, said the appointment included a non-executive board, bringing together leading industry figures, with considerable global and regional experience. Heirs Holdings Limited’s portfolio company, HHOG, completed the acquisition of OML 17 in January 2021, in one of the largest oil and gas financings in Africa in more than a decade, with a financing component of $1.1bn. The statement said the transaction represented a further implementation of the HH Group strategy of creating the leading integrated energy business in Africa. It said, “Through a series of strategic portfolio holdings, HH is executing this strategy. Most recently, affiliate company, Transcorp made a $300m acquisition of Afam Power, increasing the Group’s installed electricity generating capacity to 2,000MW.” Igiehon joined from the Royal Dutch Shell (Shell), where he was previously a vice-president with the group in the Hague, Netherlands. He previously served as chairman and chief executive officer of Shell Gabon, where he led the successful turnaround of the operational, safety and financial performance. HHOG also announced the appointment of some private sector and senior industry leaders to the board. They are Tony Elumelu, who is the chairman of Heirs Holdings, the United Bank for Africa, Transnational Corporation of Nigeria, and founder of the Tony Elumelu Foundation; Sally Udoma, who previously served as general counsel for Chevron Europe, Eurasia, and the Middle East Exploration and Production; and Anil Duais, a founding partner at Gateway Partners Limited, a private equity fund. Others are Ahmadu Musa, who previously served as deputy managing director of Total Exploration and Production Nigeria Limited; Stanley Lawson, who currently serves on the board of Transnational Corporation of Nigeria Plc; and Samuel Nwanze, who is the chief finance officer at Heirs Oil and Gas. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com