The Lagos State Governor, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, says his administration has initiated a project to transform the entertainment sector. He added that the move would make Nollywood to compete favourably with its Hollywood and Bollywood counterparts. Sanwo-Olu made this known on Wednesday at the State House, Marina, while inaugurating the Committee on Film Production Empowerment to fund youth creativity and entertainment activities in the state. Richard Mofe-Damijo, a Nollywood actor, is the chairman of the nine-member committee. The governor said, “This is a signpost of all pockets of intervention we have created for development of creativity and tourism sector. Aside the N1bn set aside for hospitality industry, this scheme is specifically targeted at our movie industry. This is with the belief that we can further raise the status of our creative output and commercialise the returns to a level that it can compete with Hollywood and Bollywood.” Describing the entertainment and tourism sector as a key enabler of economic growth and job opportunities, Sanwo-Olu said the scheme was meant to financially support the creative ideas of movie and entertainment producers who are constrained by funds. “We realised most of our film production experts and directors face a lot of funding impediments. We are intervening to close this gap and bring credible veterans who have knowledge and have demonstrated capacity in the industry to drive this project. That is why we carefully selected five key practitioners in the industry to lead. The committee will be supported by four government officials to limit bureaucracy for the committee to achieve its objectives.” Other practitioners include Tunde Kelani, Mo Abudu, Kunle Afolayan and Peace Anyim-Osigwe. The government officials in the committee are Adebukola Agbaminoja, Ferdinand Tinubu, Taju Olajumoke and Funke Avoseh The Commissioner for Tourism, Uzamat Akinbile-Yussuf, said the committee members would set the conditions for accessing this fund, determine eligibility of applicants and decide on the amount that could be given to an individual applicant or group. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com