A 39-year-old man, Victor Isong, has been paraded for allegedly killing the monarch of Ajasor community in the Etung Local Government Area of Cross River State, Chief Nkang Ochung. Isong was among the 40 suspects paraded on Tuesday by the state Commissioner of Police, Sikiru Akande, at the command headquarters, Diamond Hill, Calabar. The other 39 suspects were arrested from different parts of the state in connection with various offences such as armed robbery, unlawful possession of firearms, cultism, dealing in hard drugs, rape, conspiracy, stealing and malicious damage. However, Isong denied having anything to do with the monarch’s murder, saying his enemies had succeeded in implicating him. “I was shocked that the police arrested me in connection with the murder of the deceased. I wasn’t even around in the village when he died,” he said. While parading the suspects, Akande solicited public support to enable the police go after criminals. He stated, “I want to state clearly that what we are witnessing concerning different levels of attacks nationwide on security agencies and destruction of facilities is worrisome, barbaric and a sign of danger that requires response from critical stakeholders in curbing the ugly trend,  irrespective of tribe, religious and cultural differences.” He called on traditional rulers, youths and religious leaders not to see the current security challenges as the problem of the police alone, but a general one that needed high level of commitment from the citizens through information gathering and sharing with relevant authorities for pro-active policing. Akande blamed the high crime rate in the country on the consumption of hard drugs, saying, “Drugs play a major role in the activities of men of the underworld.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com