The Imo State Police Command has identified killers of a former Presidential aide, Ahmed Gulak, to be members of the Indigenous People of Biafra and Eastern Security Network. This is as the Commissioner of Police, Abutu Yaro, announced that combined operatives of the command’s Tactical Units, Intelligence Response Team, and Police Mobile Force have killed the suspected assailants. Gulak was on Sunday morning killed in Imo State while on his way to Sam Mbakwe International Cargo Airport, Owerri. A statement issued on Sunday night by the command’s Spokesperson, Bala Elkana, on behalf of the CP, disclosed that riffles, pistol, and ammunition were recovered from the slain suspects. The statement read, “On 30th May, 2021 following distress received by the Command on the gruesome murder of Ahmed Gulak, Police Special Forces made up of Intelligence Response Team (IRT), Police Mobile Force (PMF) and Tactical Units from the command were deployed to the scene at Obiangwu Junction at Ngorokpala LGA of Imo state. The teams were given a clear instruction to identify and apprehend the perpetrators of the act with a view of bringing them to justice. “Eyewitness account, especially the account given by the Driver of the vehicle that was conveying Ahmed Gulak to the Airport before the attack, gave a vivid description of the assailants and the vehicles they used in carrying out the attack. “The assailants were said to have used a Toyota Camry 2005 model with silver color; Toyota Sienna 1998 Model with golden color; Toyota Hilux with white color; and a Lexus RX 330 with golden Color. (Registration numbers are withheld for security reasons). “Having established the identity of the assailants and the description of the vehicles used in carrying out the attack, the teams further got details of the direction the hoodlums have taken. “With further leads, the team was able to establish the location of suspects. The suspects were rounded up at Afor Enyiogugu junction in Aboh-Mbaise Local Government Area. The hoodlums were met distributing onions to locals from a trailer they confiscated. The trailer was loaded with Onions from the Northern region of Nigeria. “On sighting the Police, the hoodlums providing security coverage to those sharing the onions opened fire on the Police teams. The gallant and battle-ready Police Officers swiftly returned the fire. The six hoodlums who carried out the killings and four other members of their gang were fatally injured. Three out of the four vehicles used in attacking Gulak were recovered. “Three AK 47 Rifles, one Pistol, five AK 47 magazines with ninety two rounds of live ammunition and criminal charms were recovered. The assailants were identified as members of the proscribed IPOB and ESN. The driver who drove late Ahmed Gulak and a co- victim who survived have all identified the dead body of the IPOB/ESM members positively as their attackers and also identified the three vehicles recovered as those used by the attackers. During the encounter, two of the police armored personnel carriers (APC) were riddled with bullets but survived the gun battle. “The Commissioner of Police Imo State, CP Abutu Yaro, fdc commended the gallant effort of the team and admonished them to continue to protect the public space.”