Nigerians on social media have rejected the Nigerian Senate’s proposal of a 15-year jail term for Nigerians who pay ransom to kidnappers. The PUNCH earlier reported that the Senate considered a bill that seeks to prohibit the payment of ransom for the release of any person kidnapped, stating that Nigerians who do so may risk 15 years imprisonment. This bill did not go down well with many Nigerians as they have taken to social media to lambast the Senate, asking what treatment should be given to the government that had failed to protect its citizens. Max Bamidele with the Twitter handle @maxdele101 asked, “What then will happen to the government who left their primary duty to protect the citizens before the kidnapping occurred?” “So, how many years of jail term will be meted to the government that refuses to protect the citizens and the police officials that refuses to go after kidnappers despite knowing their locations?” @bestmanforallmen asked. @Oorovwuje added, “I’m not sure how this helps the situation. We need more intelligence, better security forces, and better economy.” “So the abductees should die in captivity when an incompetent government failed to not only prevent the insecurity but rescue them from it?,” Talib Adams wondered. “It’s very unfortunate that the common man who is to be secure would now be in jail for paying ransom,” Michael Shedrack tweeted. “Who is to blame the government that failed to protect its citizens or the citizens who have no option than to pay the ransom?” he asked. Some other Nigerian tweeps pointed that the government should focus more on strengthening security in the country rather than threatening the masses. “You didn’t pass any bill to strengthen security in your country, and you want to jail people for rescuing their loved ones with their own money,” @Ymsalisu1 wondered. Daniel Regha tweeted, “The government is yet to tackle the problem of insecurity. Nigerians are getting abducted but the Senate instead of addressing the problem of insecurity is proposing a 15-year jail term for anyone who pays ransom to save the lives of their loved ones? Pathetic! Nigerians don’t have leaders.” “Same government that could not secure citizens’ lives and property will jail the parents trying to rescue their relatives for 15 years. Of course, the law is to witch-hunt and silence victims from crying out loud to the government,” Uche Bakaadi tweeted.