A non-governmental organisation, Women Advocates Research and Documentation Center, has called on the Lagos State Government to embark on an attitudinal change campaign that will help curb gender-based-violence. The Executive Director, Nigeria Network of NGOs, Mr Oluseyi Oyebisi, while speaking at capacity training for civil society organisations and women rights advocates on designing, implementing and managing interventions to end violence against women and girls, said the COVID-19 pandemic increased GBV cases in Lagos State. The training was part of the joint UN-EU Spotlight Initiative project which is a global multi-year partnership between the European Union and the United Nations to eliminate all forms of violence against women and girls by 2030. Oyebisi also advised men to always exhibit self-control whenever tempted to hit a woman, defile an underage or rape a woman. “There should be attitudinal change campaign; the next generation should be trained about GBV and its implications, no one should raise their hands to beat a woman or abuse a child. If she says no, that is it. We should find a balance in the way we treat each other, we can disagree to agree. “Stop pressurising boys and girls to marry, No excuse should be given for GBV. Instead of using phones to record when an act of violence is ongoing, we should not let the violence go on before stopping the man. Yes, the recording is good for evidence but people are fond of recording and laughing instead of stopping the man who is beating a woman,” he said. Founding Director of WARDC, Dr Abiola Akiyode-Afolabi, who was represented by Director of programme, Mrs Mary George-Peluola, maintained that the intervention was aimed at promoting and empowering civil society and autonomous women’s movement. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com