Human rights activist, Aisha Yesufu, has slammed critics of Southern governors, saying that those against the communiqué issued at the end of the governors’ recent meeting in Asaba, the Delta State capital, are on expired drugs. The activist, in a video uploaded on her Twitter handle on Saturday, said nobody has the monopoly of intolerance or self-centredness. The PUNCH had earlier reported that about 17 southern governors met on Tuesday in Asaba and resolved to ban open grazing and movement of cattle by foot in the region. The governors called for the restructuring of the country along fiscal federalism, devolution of powers and state policing. They also called on the President to address the nation and convoke a national dialogue to address widespread agitations amongst various groups in the region. But the governors’ resolution also known as the Asaba Accord has been heavily criticised by northerners including Ali Ndume, who is representing the Borno South Senatorial District in the upper chamber; as well as Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello. However reacting, Yesufu lambasted the detractors of the southern governors, saying, “I see some people coming out to say the southern governors do not have a right to make the decision for A, B, C, D. “The decision that you had as northern governors with what right did you make them? The southern governors do not have a right to make laws in their own states but you have a right to make laws in your own states? In short, the Igbo (Indian Hemp) that you smoke has expired.” She added, “Nobody has monopoly of intolerance, nobody has monopoly of being selfish, nobody has monopoly of being self-centred; everybody has the capacity to be, that some people don’t do it does not mean anything.” She hailed the southern governors, saying she was proud of them. She further urged them to increase their meetings like their northern colleagues in order for the country to “move to that Nigeria for all of us” and so that “we will start the restructuring that we want”.