Nigeria will witness an accelerated transition to digital payments over the next five years, and real-time volumes will reach 7.7 billion by 2025, a report by ACI Worldwide has said. It said real-time payment volumes spiked in the country in 2020, rising to over 70 per cent of digital payment transactions. The report indicated that this might be due to COVID-19, which accelerated digital transformation to reduce pressure on the paper-based payments. Real-time volume was 1.9 billion in 2020, which represents a 45 per cent growth. In September of 2020, payments worth N15.4tn were made through NIBSS Instant Payments. The report said, “COVID-19 is also impacting future forecasts, with real-time payments expected to continue to grow through 2022 before leveling off or declining after 2023, as payment cards capture additional share of transactional volume. “Card payments are forecast to grow slightly faster than real-time payments. Nevertheless, we expect an accelerated transition to digital payments overall during the next five years and real-time volumes are expected to reach 7.7bn by 2025.” Since it launched in 2011, real-time payment has grown, although in terms of transaction volume, cash is the most popular payment method, especially for every day, inexpensive payment. With 56 per cent of Nigerians unbanked as of 2020, real-time payment adoption and usage continue to be hindered, according to the report. It noted that to address the gap in financial inclusion, the Central Bank of Nigeria had undertaken a payments modernisation initiative to launch payment service banks. The report said this would make basic banking services available to the unbanked population, thus reducing cash dependence. “Additionally, increased fintech activity is advancing the Nigeria ecommerce industry and fueling the growth of the digital economy by, for example, bringing to market B2C marketplace tools such as payments integration on social media platforms,” it said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com