The police in Katsina State have arrested four suspects for alleged banditry, cattle rustling, kidnapping and armed robbery. The suspects, who were paraded at the police headquarters, Katsina, on Tuesday, were said to belong to a syndicate terrorising residents of the Kankara Local Government Area and its environs. The spokesman for the state police command, SP Gambo Isah, said  they were arrested based on credible intelligence on 10, May ,2021. He gave their names as Isiya Halliru, Nasiru Bature, Bello Hamza and Hassan Iliyasu. He added that 170 cows and 38 sheep were recovered from the suspects. The police spokesman said, “We got an intelligence that these bandits were coming from a place where they commit their nefarious activities and fortunately, we succeeded in laying an ambush for them. After a fierce encounter with the hoodlums we were able to arrest these four suspects and we recovered 170 cows, 38 sheep from them. Investigation is ongoing to arrest remaining gang leaders of the syndicate.” SP Isah also disclosed that the police apprehended a 41-year-old man, Muhammadu Aliyu of Abbatuwa quarters in Katsina Metropolitan Area. He described the suspect as  a serial rapist who specialised in defiling  minors. According to him, Aliyu was caught while allegedly having an unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor. The police spokesman added that the suspect confessed to the crime, adding that investigation was ongoing into the incident. The suspect told journalists that he had abused the boy “four times after I was given a charm by a ritualist. “The ritualist said if I go to anyone that is holding a big position and advise him on what I consider as a crime, he/she will surely listen to me and act on it.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com