The holy month of Ramadan provides the best opportunity for couples to make a difference in their marriages and present the best character of themselves to receive the blessings and promises that accompany every good deed. The challenges of balancing commitments as well as managing marital responsibilities especially during the fasting period if your spouse is non-Muslim can sometimes become overwhelming for many couples, making Ramadan a difficult and unpredictable time within the household. Differences are no barriers Couples from two different religious backgrounds can certainly enjoy a successful marriage based on love and understanding. Religion should never be a barrier in your marriage if you have respect for each other’s faith. A good marriage is one that encourages the couple to practise their religions without infringing on their values and intentional about supporting the processes too. Make Ramadan a time for love, peace, sharing and giving irrespective of your faith. Love has no religion, show that you care after all no-good deed goes unrewarded in Islam. Sharing is caring One of the benefits of Ramadan is the ability to endure during the period of fasting and the joy of sharing this experience with your loved ones. On the downside, fasting for a long period of time can change some people’s behaviour for the worse. If your spouse is the only one fasting in your household, the experience can leave him feeling isolated and disconnected from you coupled with the rules of abstinence. Express concern about your observation bearing in mind that he may not be aware of the impact his behaviour is having on you. Ask if you can join him when he breaks his fast during prayers. The affirmation you extend to him can gradually bring him out of his shell. Being a non-Muslim should not discourage you from sharing in your spouse’s spiritual journey with him. But be considerate and show that you truly care. Marriage is all about understanding the other person’s feelings. Reflect on the present The peace and harmony around Ramadan make it the perfect time to reflect on your relationship by taking a more proactive attitude on issues left unresolved and still affecting your emotional wellbeing. The period of Ramadan is not the time to hold any grudge against your spouse or practice unforgiveness and yet continue to engage in fasting and praying. The only person you can truly be honest with is yourself if you are in this situation; you may well be better off abstaining from performing the obligations of Ramadan and start the process of reconciliation and forgiveness instead. Humility is key Humility is one the greatest attributes of Ramadan and this should be uppermost in every couple’s behaviour towards each other at this time. If you or your spouse has a prideful person mentality that often leads to conflict in your marriage, use this time to seek guidance on humility by studying your Holy Quran so that you can recognise the greatness of the Almighty Allah. It is only through humility that you can recognise your own weaknesses and the imperfections of others. Through His doctrines this Ramadan, you can set yourself free from arrogance and pride which has been plaguing your marriage. Happy Ramadan! Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com