Nigerian stars Moses Simon, Samuel Kalu and Terem Moffi head into their final 90 minutes of the 2020/21 Ligue 1 with the prospects of potentially joining Nimes and Dijon in Ligue 2 next season, Sunday PUNCH reports. Nimes and Dijon are already relegated to Ligue 2, having finished 19th and 20th respectively, but trio Simon, Kalu and Moffi will be hoping to help their respective teams Nantes, Bordeaux and Lorient avoid the one remaining relegation play-off spot in the French Ligue 1 when they head into the final game of the season. Simon, who has played 32 games and scored six times this season for Nantes, who are 18th on the log, with 40 points from 37 games, have made a late survival surge under manager Antoine Kombouare, winning their last four matches and scoring 13 goals in the process, conceding just two. Nantes welcome eighth-placed Montpellier in their final game of the season, while the three teams (Lorient, Brest and Strasbourg) above them on 41 points – two of which play each other (Lorient and Strasbourg, both coming off the back of wins) – are all in danger of slipping down, with goals difference separating them. The Canaries must beat Montpellier and hope that Lorient, Brest and Strasbourg drop points in their final game of the season for them to stay up. Lorient on their part will be banking on their in-form striker, Moffi, who has netted 14 times and has three assists in 31 appearances to retain their status in Ligue 1. Kalu’s club Bordeaux, who recently went into administration, already have a significantly worse goal difference than Strasbourg, but losing by four goals to Reims on the final day would take them below Lorient and Brest if the two matches involving those two teams end in draws. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com