SUPPORTERS of the Peoples Democratic Party loyal to the Edo State Governor, Godwin Obaseki, have suspended the party chairman in Egor Local Government Area of the state. The loyalists stormed the PDP Secretariat in the area and announced the suspension of the Chairman and Secretary, Manfred Ekundayo and Moses Osarumwense, respectively. This followed months of tension between party supporters who decamped with Governor Obaseki from the APC to the PDP and other party loyalists. Spokesperson for the group, who is also the local government PDP Assistant Secretary, Ikponmwosa Eguavon, while addressing party members at the party secretariat in Uselu, announced the former Deputy Chairman of the PDP, Ayo Efosa as the acting chairman. Eight members of the party’s executive which include: Efosa, Eguavon, Auditor of the party, Dickson Obazee, three ex-officio members, Paul Osaremwenda, Alhaji O. Ebomwonyi and Funmi Usiabulu including Idemudia Stanley and Ekhator Stanley, who are both ward chairmen, signed a statement in which they accused the suspended party officials of sabotaging efforts by the PDP National Secretariat to resolve the crisis in the state. They also accused the suspended officials of various acts of misconduct. The statement read in part, “These officials suspended the ward chairmen who were not in agreement with their terms and conditions; embarrassed elected political office holders who they feel are not sufficiently funding their selfish interest. “We also want to use this medium to unanimously pass a vote of implicit confidence on our amiable governor of Edo state, Godwin Obaseki, the Deputy Governor, Comrade Philip Shaib, Secretary to State Government, Osarodion Ogie and the PDP Co-ordinator Egor local government area, Chief Odion Olaye.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com