Mrs. Remi Tinubu, wife of All Progressives Congress chieftain, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, says it is true that Nigerians are angry but people must learn to manage their anger and put their emotions under control. The Senator representing Lagos Central made this known on Friday while featuring on TVC breakfast show, ‘Your View’ monitored by The PUNCH. The rising insecurity, unemployment, injustice and worsening economy have been sources of worry in the country of late. But responding to a question on the television programme, Mrs. Tinubu said, “Why are we condoning that young people are angry, angry over what? Who said I am not angry? I am only keeping my anger. Are you (presenters) not angry about things? Everybody has to control their anger. Who is not angry? I am angry about a lot of issues. “You (presenters) were talking to me about a bill I have been trying to get for nine years ago and it is still alive. Do they (youths) understand what it means by waiting? Do they understand what it means by waiting in the morning and go to do your job? “I remember because they say there are not jobs, I said I am going to start a programme – Work Experience Programme. We got about almost 200 youths. “I know some people in some places and I said just employ them for just one-month internship. I will pay N40,000 for them to go. I will pay N20,000 for transport and then when they conclude and complete the one month, I will pay another N20,000. “We did an orientation for them – how to work in a workplace. Some don’t even know how to work in a workplace. They don’t have the etiquette for workplace. We did the training for them. Would you believe that they employed almost 80% of them, they retain them and they were screaming there were no jobs. “I need people to work with me but I need the right people. Morayo (Afolabi-Brown) knows that I am not one of those people you work with and you say, ‘No problem’. That’s no English. I know the people I interact with. Did I tell you there is a problem? That is a question I always ask. It is a slang that people are used to but in certain levels of governance, such languages are not ethical.” The PUNCH had earlier reported that the National Bureau of Statistics said Nigeria’s unemployment rate rose from 27.1 per cent in the second quarter of 2020 to 33.3 per cent in the fourth quarter of 2020, adding that over 23.19 million people are unemployed in the country. Nigeria, with over 200 million people, has a vibrant youth population mostly between the ages of 18 and 35 but sadly, the nation has not made judicious use of its human resource gift to develop its industries and economic wealth.