The President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari; the Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong, former governors  of Plateau, Jonah Jang and Fidelis Tapgun on Thursday expressed sadness over the death of a former Chief of Defence Staff, Lt. Gen. Joshua Dogonyaro (retd.) It was learnt that Dogonyaro died in Jos on Thursday after a brief illness at the age of 80. Recall that the former CDS read the coup speech that ended the regime of Nigeria’s current President, Buhari, and brought General Ibrahim Babangida (retd.) to power in1985. Meanwhile, Buhari on Thursday described Dogonyaro’s as “a great loss not only to the Nigerian military, but also to the country.” Buhari’s position was contained in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, titled ‘President Buhari textiles General Dogonyaro, described him as a thoroughbred soldier.’ The statement quoted Buhari as saying, “The death of Dogonyaro comes as a great shock to me because as a soldier, I know what it means to lose such an officer and a gentleman who gave his best in the service of the country.” The President said Dogonyaro was a thoroughbred soldier who had professionally distinguished himself in his military career, adding that “laying down one’s life for the country is one of the greatest sacrifices any citizen can make to his country. General Dogonyaro’s incalculable contributions will be remembered for years to come.” Also, Lalong said nation had lost a patriotic and loyal Nigerian who served with courage, dignity and selflessness. The governor said, “Plateau State has lost an elder statesman whose outstanding achievements in his military career brought a lot of pride and honour for the state. The commitment of the deceased towards the defence of Nigeria’s territorial integrity and well as ensuring its peace and unity stood him out as a soldier of repute.” Similarly, Jang in a statement described Dogonyaro as a distinguished and accomplished officer. Jang said, “As a senior Military Officer, his exploits in peacekeeping operations have left an indelible mark in the sands of time. As the Task Force Commander of a Peace-keeping force in Chad and later Commander of the ECOMOG in Liberia, the late Dogonyaro distinguished himself and displayed the professionalism for which the Nigerian Armed Forces is known.” Tapgun said that Dogonyaro’s death was a big loss not only to the people of Plateau state
but to Nigerians and the
military in particular “because whatever history is going
to be written, the military
is going to take a large chapter and he is one of those whose name will be mentioned severally on every chapter because of the great roles he played for the sake of the country.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com