The departure of the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), to the African Finance Summit in Paris has received knocks from Nigerians due to the rising insecurity in the country. The PUNCH had earlier reported that Buhari landed in Paris on Sunday for a four-day official visit to attend the African Finance Summit, according to presidential spokesman, Garba Shehu. The President’s departure despite the rise in insecurity has led to knocks from Nigerians. An ex-aide to former President Goodluck Jonathan, Reno Omokri, had questioned the departure of the president, threatening a #HarassBuhariOutofParis protest. “I remind Buhari that Nigeria is drifting. If he does not drift back to Abuja to halt the drift, I might be forced to drift to Paris to #HarassBuhariOutofParis!”, Omokri said. Godson Ijoba tweeted, “This same meeting can be done via zoom.  Instead of him to seat and address his countrymen, he is travelling to France to waste tax payers’ money.” A user with the handle @otunmiri said, “Buhari would never visit any state even if 1 million people are killed by anything or go for any economic talk in Nigeria. He’d rather send Prof. Osinbajo (the vice-president).” @ENjoetene said, “It is a surprise to me that Mr. President always has the strength to travel overseas but find it difficult to move around within the country either for official or unofficial assignment.” “Every time, he goes to their country. How many times have they visited him in his own country?, @mrs_zsasz questioned. @qadr_wahab pointed out, “He (Buhari) is the president of the world. So let him tour. He’s probably going to see how France is doing.” Some Nigerians are still of the opinion that the summit was just an excuse for the President to go for his medical checkups abroad. Danladino Dauda said, “He went to see his doctors. Let him come back and be attended to in the ‘world class’ hospitals he built in Nigeria.” To @darohjong, the President’s departure is “another medical tourism”. The user further stressed that the “president has not visited any place in Nigeria since 2019.”