The Lagos State Government has itemised the benefits of its new transport initiative, First and last Mile buses. It also added that its distribution has been grouped into eight zones which cut across the nooks and crannies of the state. The Chief Press Secretary, Gboyega Akosile, disclosed this on his Twitter page. He said, “The benefits of the First and Last Mile Bus Scheme is that it will influence the choice of transport modes for longer trips that originate or end in the Central Business District; improve the movement of goods and people to and fro their door-steps; minimise passenger’s waiting time and transfer; encourage direct or indirect participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in the transport industry. “The FLM buses will promote efficiency and cost reduction of transport services across the state through the e-payment system; enhance passengers’ connectivity to the major routes in Lagos FLM busses. It will improve road facilities and infrastructure maintenance, and ensure safe non-motorised transportation in Lagos.” According to the CPS, the FLM scheme is in line with the state’s Bus Reform Initiative’s objectives and methodology, which entails LASG partnering with private investors. He explained that the private investors would provide buses with seating capacity ranging from 7-13 seats, adding that the government planned to make available 2,000 units of these seven/13-seater microbuses in the first phase. He said that the new initiative was conceived to develop a coherent, formalised and regulated bus transport system and network across the state with the sole aim of implementing a rationalised Bus Route Network. According to him, the routes include Zone 1: Ikeja and Ketu; Zone 2: Oshodi, Mushin, and Surulere; Zone 3: Berger, Yaba and Oyingbo; Zone 4: Lagos Island, Ajah and Ibeju Lekki; Zone 5: Iyana-ipaja and Agege; Zone 6: Mile 2, Iyana-Iba and Ajeromi; Zone 7: Ikorodu; and Zone 8: Epe and Badagry Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com