Several studies have documented the use of Mondia whitei in the treatment of malaria, sexual weakness, premature ejaculation and increased sperm production as well as the treatment of urinary tract infection, cough, jaundice, headache and diarrhea. It has also been reported that Mondia whitei is traditionally used as an aphrodisiac, for appetite stimulation and in the treatment of stomach pain, body pain, gastrointestinal disorders, gonorrhea and post-partum bleeding. It is used for the treatment of hypertension, stroke, anemia, asthma, hangover, mastitis and allergies. It is also taken to improve sleep, enhance urination, ease birth pains and as a mouth freshener and chewing stick. The leaves serve as animal fodder and are consumed by humans as vegetables. The Yoruba call it Isirigun. The plant has great nutritional value as it contains several vitamins and minerals. While I was preparing for this article, I noticed that there are lots of images of  Mondia on the net; one of the images is presented as a tree. Mondia whitei is a woody climber with a large tuberous root stock and not a tree! Please, be sure of your herbs before you take them. Let me digress a little by sharing a story with you. It is not related to Mondai whitei. My immediate younger sister, Mrs Damilola Elumade shared the story with me many years ago. When I look back now, I laugh at myself because of the judgement I gave after listening to the story that year. One of her colleagues who had a baby through cesarean section got some black soap from her father in law, the soap was to be used to speed up labour for subsequent deliveries so she could  have a vaginal birth. One day, she used a little from the soap  to wash her dirty hands. Guess what happened? She started experiencing excruciating labour pains despite the fact that she was not pregnant! A call was placed through to the husband and by the time he got home, he met his wife writhing in pain on the floor. Definitely, they must  have called the father in law for the antidote.So, back to my judgement about the soap; I told my sister that the soap must be fetish. Now, I know better. The possible explanation to this is that herbs that can induce labour were added to that black soap and when that woman used it, the phytonutrients in the herbs passed through the pores of her hands into her bloodstream and went to act on the womb! We all have elderly people like this woman’s father in law, let us be close to them, they must not take all the knowledge they have about herbs to their graves. So, back to our discussion on Mondia whitei.The root of M. whitei is the most popular organ used in traditional medicine.The plant has a  vanilla-like flavour and may thus make a useful food-flavouring agent. The hexane and methanol extracts of the root shows significant anti-inflammatory activity. They are anodyne( a pain killing medicine), aphrodisiac, appetizer, carminative (a medicine that relieves flatulence), diuretic, expectorant, purgative, restorative, stomachic, tonic and uterine stimulants. A decoction or infusion is used to treat a wide range of other conditions. In West Africa, the roots are used to make an energising drink for wedding parties and are used as spices. It can be used as  tea. It has a sweet after-taste and are used to make a beverage similar to ginger beer.As an aphrodisiac and for the treatment of impotence and infertility, men eat the barks of the root ( both fresh and dry) or drink the aqueous extract of Mondia whitei.The dried leaves are powdered and mixed with food and taken daily as supplement.The leaves are squeezed in water and the filtrate is drunk to stop heavy postpartum bleeding.The leaf decoction is drunk to stop vomiting. Various organ parts of M. whitei such as leaves, roots and tubers have been utilised as food. The Zulus in South Africa use the roots as an appetite stimulant.During weddings in several West Africa countries, the roots are used to make a beverage similar to ginger beer or brewed in alcohol to make an energising drink. In South Africa, the root is sometimes cooked with meat to enhance the flavour and also used as a tea. In Kenya, the roots are eaten fresh or dried.  In Angola, M. whitei serves as an alternative food for the early Portuguese and their neighbouring locals who boiled the leaves with butter or olive oil serving as a substitute for spinach. In KwaZulu-Natal (South Africa), leaves are eaten as a pot herb and the dried powdered leaves are added to food as a condiment. In Uganda, the tubers are commonly consumed; however the taste varies depending on the age of the plant.The young tubers are sweet tasting, whereas mature tubers have a slightly bitter taste probably because of the accumulation of secondary metabolites.The infusions of the root are used in Zimbabwe for treating anorexia and bilharzia.Some tribes use the roots for making a tea that is used for the treatment of general pains and aches. In a review titled, “The role of Mondia whitei in reproduction: a review of current evidence by  Lampiao,’’ it sums-up the scientific evidence supporting Mondia whitei as an aphrodisiac. The conclusion is that there is enough scientific evidence supporting the use of Mondia whitei as an aphrodisiac. The evidence indicates that it is able to increase libido by stimulating testosterone production, increase potency by being able to relax the corpus cavernosum muscle thus aiding erection and by improving sperm total motility and progressive motility. In another review titled, “Mondia whitei, a medicinal plant from Africa with aphrodisiac and antidepressant properties: a review by Oketch-Rabah et al, ‘’ the studies provide scientific evidence that supports the traditional uses of mondia as an aphrodisiac and an antidepressant. This is another aphrodisiac for men! Isirigun is pronounced (dmmd) in case you want to buy from women selling herbs in the market. Mondia whitei is sold in pharmacies as supplements too. Vanilla is my favourite flavour, so if I have to use this plant, it will be because of its vanilla-like flavour. I will also use it sparingly because it has androgenic properties. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com