A large number of clubs in the 20-team Nigeria Professional Football League are yet to get their players vaccinated for COVID-19, The PUNCH reports. Nigeria had received 3.94 million doses of the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine in March with frontline workers given priority. But footballers across NPFL clubs, who spoke with our correspondent, confirmed that they were yet to be vaccinated for COVID-19. An Enyimba player, who spoke with our correspondent on the condition of anonymity, confirmed that they were yet to vaccinate the players. “Do we really need it? After all, we conduct COVID-19 tests before any CAF game,” he told The PUNCH. Other clubs our correspondent gathered are yet to vaccinate their players are Enugu Rangers, Sunshine Stars, Katsina United, Dakkada FC, Kano Pillars, MFM FC, Lobi Stars, FC IfeanyiUbah and Heartland. Also, it was learnt that many of these clubs no longer test their players before each NPFL game. The Nigeria Football Federation had at the return of football last year, written to chairmen of the League Management Company, Nigeria National League, Nationwide League One and the Nigeria Women’s Football League, instructing them to mandate clubs to conduct COVID-19 tests on players and match officials before each league game. “We haven’t done COVID-19 tests in a long time,” a Sunshine Stars player told our correspondent on the condition of anonymity. Speaking with our correspondent, a sports doctor, Tunde Akinbinu, said it was sad that clubs didn’t take the COVID-19 vaccination seriously. “The number of COVID-19 cases across the world have been decreasing since the vaccines became available. What the vaccines do is to prevent people from having a deadly version of the disease, so it is a positive thing for the entire world. “It is unfortunate that Nigerians wait until they are compelled by the government before they begin to do what they should do. The vaccination is available in Nigeria and it is free,” Akinbinu told The PUNCH. Efforts to reach NPFL boss, Shehu Dikko, proved abortive as he didn’t pick our correspondent’s call. He also didn’t respond to text messages sent to his line as at the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com