Pandora Agency, a start-up firm in the communications sector, has constituted its board of advisors with top business executives and founders making the list. It said in a statement on Monday that this was in recognition of strategic decision making to creating sustainable impact, The statement said, “The  three-person board of advisors is composed of names like Group Product Manager, Spotify, Christopher Akande; Oludamola Akindolire, a building professional with over a decade of experience in the real estate industry; and Founder of KL Advisory, Chidimma Onyeokoro, an end-to-end consulting and advisory company founded over 12 years ago. Passionate about scaling product teams and mentoring product managers, Akande formerly worked at Konga.com as vice president, Technology Operations, where he scaled the TechOps team and led the Product Team at Zalando. The statement said Akindolire, who started his career as a project supervisor with Mydas Homes before moving on to Hedgestone Capital as a real estate investment and research analyst, has incredible experience in project management, assets management, and a host of others; Chidimma comes with 15 years of experience as a C-Suite Executive and a business leader who sits on the Board of various organisations both locally and internationally. Their job would be to provide counsel on how best the company can provide tailor-made solutions that address clients’ needs, develop and finetune strategies that will lead to the organisation’s overall success. The management of Pandora Agency stated that the constituents of the board came with tremendous experience. It needed to scale up as an organisation as they had helped co-found, managed, and kicked-off start-ups across sectors, especially in emerging markets like Nigeria. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com