The shareholders of Dangote Cement Plc have approved the N272.6bn dividend for the 2020 financial year, translating to N16 per share. The dividend was approved on Wednesday at the virtual 12th Annual General Meeting, where shareholders commended the management of the company for an impressive performance despite the economic challenges in the year under review. The company said in a statement that the 16 per cent increase in its revenue led to a 36 per cent increase in its earnings per share of N16.14 as against N11.29 in 2019. The Chairman of Dangote Cement Plc, Aliko Dangote, assured the shareholders of better returns always, saying the company was doing everything possible to create wealth for its shareholders and other stakeholders. “Dangote Cement hit the N1tn mark in term of revenue. Group revenues were up 16 per cent compared to 2019. We record group cement sales of 25.7 million tonnes and revenues of N1.034tn. Most notably was our record high EBITDA of N478.1bn, up 20.9 per cent compared to 2019,” he said. He noted that the board maintained the 2019 dividend of N16 per share, reinforcing its commitment to maximising shareholder value. Dangote said, “In 2020, we commissioned our Apapa and Onne export terminals in Nigeria and commenced clinker exports to West and Central Africa. The vision for our exporter strategy is to make West and Central Africa cement and clinker self-sufficient, with Nigeria as the main supplier and exporter. “We also remain focused on meeting the demand in Nigeria and as such, we increased our capacity by three metric tonnes on Obajana and we commissioned our gas-fired power plant in Tanzania. “Our Nigerian domestic operations sold 15.6Mt, up 14.3 per cent year-on-year, growing ahead the market. This strong volume growth was enhanced by our successful innovative national consumer promotion ‘Bag of Goodies- Season 2’, lower rains in the Q3 compared to the previous year and the low interest rate environment driving strong demand for real estate assets and supporting the construction sector.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com