THE Lagos State House of Assembly has suspended the chairmen of three local councils in the state over the alleged disregard for the guidelines governing their activities. The Assembly said it could no longer continue to watch while the council chairmen stubbornly flout the state’s local government guidelines. The affected chairmen are Ogidan Olaitan of the Lekki LCDA, Suleiman Jelili of Alimosho LGA and Tajudeen Ajide of Surulere. Their suspension was unanimously approved by members of the House in a voice vote with no opposition shortly after lawmaker representing Alimosho Constituency 1, Bisi Yusuff, raised a complaint against Olaitan. Yusuff who is the chairman of the Committee on Commerce and Industry told his colleagues that Olaitan was rude to him. He complained that Olaitan was unpleasant to the lawmakers carrying out an oversight function on a memorandum of understanding in relation to the issue that arose from a resettlement programme in Lekki of being ignorant of their jobs. The lawmaker further said the council chairman had total disregard for those in his domain who he was elected to govern. Supporting Yusuff, another lawmaker, Fatai Mojeed (Ibeju-Lekki 1), named Jelili and Ajide as having issues against them that are being investigated. He urged his colleagues to suspend the chairmen pending the outcome of the investigations and to serve as deterrent to others. The Speaker of the House, Mudashiru Obasa, while speaking on the issue, noted that the House had received petitions from many councillors in the state against sitting chairmen. “Total disregard for the local government guideline is something that should not be tolerated. “We cannot continue like this. We can’t be breeding monsters in our local government councils,” Obasa said. The Speaker directed the Clerk of the House, Olalekan Onafeko, to write to Governor Babajide Sanwo-Olu and others concerned about the decision of the House. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com