Niger Delta youths under the aegis of Ijaw Youths Council worldwide, Akwa Ibom State Chapter have shut down the state office of Niger Delta Development Commission in protest against non-reconstitution of the commission’s board after six months. The youths lamented that the current Interim board of the commission was long overdue, emphasising that a substantive board of NDDC should be inaugurated immediately to pilot the affairs of the commission. The protesters displayed placards with various inscriptions some of which read, “Akpabio must go,” “We say no to bad governance,” “Inaugurate substantive NDDC board,” “IOC’s must not remit $1.6 billion to NDDC for now,” “Sack Akpabio now,” and “restructure Nigeria now.” They vowed not to vacate the office premises until an agreement was reached, blaming the Federal Government for not responding to the one-month ultimatum on the constitution of a substantive board. Spokesman for the protesters, Mr. Uruang Solomonking called on the federal government not to remit N1.6 billion dollars to NDDC until a new board was duly constituted in line with the constitution. He maintained that the ongoing forensic audit exercise cannot stop the constitution of a substantive board of the commission. “We are here to say no to bad governance. We are giving the federal government two options to either inaugurate a substantive board of the NDDC or sack Senator Godswill Akpabio. “We know that once the board is put in place, we are going to feel the stimulation of development involving all circles of our influence as Ijaw people. “We do not want the board to be politicised, we want transparent people and we will not tolerate anyone who will want to rob Peter to pay Paul,” he said. The Zonal Mobilisation Officer of IYC, Eastern Zone, Mr. John Ekang said they have tolerated the Interim Management Committee of NDDC for a long time, lamenting that all the monies approved for states through the commission cannot be found now. According to him, the current NDDC does not represent the commission which the region agitated for years back, stressing that the commission was now being dragged in the mud of politics. “We are here base on the ultimatum for the constitution of the substantive board of NDDC. We have been tolerating the Interim Management Committee for so long. Every time I approach them, they only talk about the forensic report. “As far as the forensic report is concerned, a team of auditors can do the report within three months, but it has exceeded three months. If they are on forensic audit, why does the federal government still remit monies into the commission? “We came here last month to meet the person in charge of the head office, they told us that there was nobody on the ground because the substantive board was not set up.” Ekang warns against any form of intimidation as they were carrying out their constitutional rights. The Clan Chairman, Eastern Obolo of IYC, Mr. Festus Adasi said the group will continue to fight against the marginalisation and victimisation that some elements in the commission were harbouring against the Ijaw people. He said the kidnapping of their president cannot stop their protest, warning those behind his abduction to keep him safe and healthy to avoid a crisis.