Once again, Grammy award-winning artiste, Burna Boy, has sparked a debate on the Nigerian Twitter space over a tweet in which he claimed that he does not make money from Nigeria. The singer made the statement while responding to various tweets from fans on the microblogging platform. One of the tweets read, “Burna boy go soon leave Twitter NG for una.”(sic) The African Giant replied, “Me wey no even be Nigerian artist.” Another fan queried the singer’s response with a tweet, which read, “But you dey promote African culture and you Dey deny your own motherland, all na showbiz as usual.” (sic). The Odogwu singer seized the moment to reveal that he does not make money from Nigeria as he tweeted, “I’m from here and I live here because I love my home and my people, E no pass like that. I don’t make money from Nigeria. Na only cruise dey here.”(sic). His response sparked mixed reactions as Nigerians took to Twitter to air their opinions over the singer’s comment. A Twitter user, @omini_smoochey, while comparing Burna Boy with his contemporaries like Wizkid and Davido, tweeted, “When it comes to genuine fan love and respect, please give it up to Wizkid and Davido. They would rather swallow uncooked beans than to disrespect their fans directly or indirectly. They know the worth of everyone who stan them. But Burna? Lol una kuku be OUTSIDERS not the OWNER.” (sic) Also, the Twitter user, @Greatkd2, tweeted, “Na only Burna Nigeria fans I pity sha. All your efforts wey u dey use stream that zoo album. Burna still say he no dey make money from naija.” However, some Twitter users are on the side of the Wonderful singer. A tweep, @thedelichi, wrote, “Burna Boy has been on a 100 per cent run since January 2018 ( he’s been dropping solid tracks before then too though) when he dropped Outside. Not what you may want to hear, but nobody has bested his discography since then. African Giant in every sense.” Another fan, @jonespike3, also tweeted, “Davido & Wiz signed to Sony in 2016 and Davido is yet 2 make a classic album, while it took Wizkid over 4 years to make one good album but Burna that signed over a year later is on the verge of dropping his 4th world-acclaimed album with a Grammy & Edison in his name. MUMU PIPO.”(sic)