The All Progressives Congress in Jigawa State has overturned the purported suspension of the lawmaker representing Kazaure/Roni/Gwiwa/Yankwashi Federal Constituency in Jigawa State at the House of Representatives, Gudaji Kazaure, with a minority vote.
 
Vice-Chairman, Caretaker Committee of the APC in Jigawa, Bello Sanda, has therefore written to the Chairman, Caretaker/Extra-Ordinary Convention Planning Committee and Governor of Yobe State, Mai Mala Buni, to covey the majority vote upturning the suspension.
 
The letter dated May 31, 2021, a copy of which our correspondent obtained on Monday, is titled, ‘Forwarding the Resolution by the Two-Third Majority of the APC Kazaure Local Government (Area) Party Executives, Six out of Eleven Wards Chairmen and Twenty-One Out of Twenty-Seven Yamma Ward Party Executives.’
 
The letter read, “We condemn the unconstitutional and unlawful suspension of our member and respected leader, Hon. Mohammed Gudaji Kazaure, by the APC Chairman, Legal Advisor and two others.
 
“Sir, four people cannot make a decision on our behalf.
 
“Subject to the above, we, party executives of Kazaure Local Government (Area) forward to you, our resolution attached with a list of names, phone numbers and signatures in order to show you our solidarity and apology to Hon. Mohammed Gudaji Kazaure, member, House of Representatives, representing Kazaure/Roni/Gwiwa/Yankwashi Federal Constituency of Jigawa State.
 
“Hon. Mohammed Gudaji Kazaure contributed to the development of our people, the party and Nigerian people in general.
 
“Sir, we highly regret the disgrace but soon, the party will investigate the chairman and three others.”
 
Chairman of the APC in Kazaure LGA, Hassan Lawan, had last week announced that the lawmaker had been suspended by his Yamma ward and that the suspension had been endorsed by his leadership over alleged misconduct and disrespect to Governor Muhammad Abubakar of Jigawa State with a post on his Facebook page.
 
Lawan had said the suspension was with immediate effect, while a seven-man committee had been set up to investigate the allegations against Kazaure within 10 days.