An art seller and collector, Mrs. Patience Obasohan, sat leisurely eating mangoes behind a shed in her well-arranged carvings. Obasohan was awaiting customers as sales had ebbed in recent times. The collectors appeared to have been cocooned in their abodes amid the skyrocketing prices of art materials affecting the cost of works. For over 22 years, she has been an art collector based at the Cane Village, Maryland, Lagos. She gets works from carvers in Edo and Lagos states. Due to the decrease in sales, she also ventured into selling weaved cane baskets and plastic flowers. Obasohan noted that patronage was good until insecurity and bad economy including COVID-19 pandemic emerged. It was gathered that tourists visited the market popular for carvings, sculptures, paintings, cane chairs and baskets. A young seller of artworks, Yinka Aremu, carries some of his paintings on his shoulders from the store where he keeps them at the close of the day to his space under the tree along Ilupeju Bye-Pass. He is an engineer but sells artworks as a side hustle. Aremu also stated that sales had been dull, adding that it was better to endure the situation than resort to begging for alms. Another art seller, Mr Segun Daniel, along Mende, Maryland, told our correspondent that selling his paintings and carvings had been affected by the barriers demarcating the road and path for pedestrians. Mende, Maryland, Lagos is known as the hub of “outside the gallery” artworks. Mr Austin Adeyemi, sells his works by the roadside, direct sales help him “gain more customers and make more sales.” The painter who has been a portrait artist for 20 years noted that he preferred to deal with his customers directly and handle their painting requests. Gallery owners versus promoters of roadside art Many of the roadside sellers of artworks don’t own galleries to display or sell the works with them. There are many gifted visual artists in Nigeria whose works project the African story and explore universal themes. According to The Centenary Project, Ben Enwonwu, Bruce Onbrakpeya, Susanne Wenger, Abayomi Barber, Uche Okeke are masters in the Nigerian art. It noted that they led the development of African art, brought African art into international visibility, celebrated Nigerian culture through art, invented new phases of artworks, influenced the preservation of arts and mentored modern-day artists. Today, Nigeria’s art is still greatly appreciated globally. An artist and owner of Omolayo Gallery, Mr Abiodun Omolayo, is among those pushing outstanding stories about humanity, Nigeria and Africa in general to the outside world through art. It was observed that some roadside art sellers were believed to sell duplicated works sold cheaply thereby presenting the art industry in a bad light. On this, Omolayo noted that some collectors who patronise his gallery usually wonder why they see duplicated artworks by the roadside. He said, “When people come to the gallery and ask for the price of an artwork, they ask ‘what’s wrong. I saw something similar to this on the way.’ I then explain to them that the man selling by the roadside doesn’t know another way. It is possible that he might have copied another work and has about 40 pieces of it and so you see the same one you bought in your friend’s house. Nonetheless, I salute the courage of these guys who go to the street to showcase and sell their works. I also buy from some of them to encourage them.’’ But despite buying artworks from them as a way of encouragement, Omolayo added that his works weren’t given to the roadside art sellers but rather to trained marketers who know how to seek potential art collectors. He stated, “As a standard gallery, we don’t give out works to those who sell by the roadside. I have trained marketers who identify potential customers and invite them to the gallery.” Omolayo noted that when he started out as an artist, his works were rejected by a gallery because he wasn’t prominent. He added, “The gallery I approached said I didn’t have a name and that they only accept artworks from known artists, so they couldn’t showcase my works. I felt like crying but instead, I decided to start a gallery myself. I conducted research, asked questions and started a gallery in my room and exhibited my works. I accept works from known an unknown artists, children and women as well.’’ On his part, art entrepreneur, Prince Yemisi Shyllon, stated that artworks should be sold and bought in the traditional and customary market. He stated, “Buying artworks by the roadside cannot be legally claimed to be a market overt in the customary and traditional sense. Those who sell works that are signed by the original painters are not doing anything illegal. They are selling the works of those who signed those works as their original paintings because they claimed those works are original paintings. “When a work is signed as an original painting and sold between sunrise and sunset in a market that is not recognised by the traditional customs of that trade, whoever buys, buys at his own peril. The traditional and customary market for buying artwork is going to a gallery, buying directly from the artist, buying in an auction and buying from a collector who should prove provenance to authenticate the originality of the work that is representing that of the first artist that produced the work. “If you are a roadside buyer of an original painting, you should know that you are buying poor quality paintings and you are paying a poor quality price.” Commenting on why she doesn’t own a gallery to sell signed artworks, Obasohan said she once opened a gallery. She said, “I rented a store in Maryland for a gallery sometime ago, I used the proceeds from this place to finance the store. Galleries may not sell every day but when they have customers, they are okay. I want to make sales every day and that is why I find an option. I have responsibilities.’’ She was however aware of the regulatory roles of galleries in the sale of artworks, stating that those who patronise most times merely took pictures to get whatever they want in galleries. Obasohan said, “Some come around in their cars and just look around, then go to galleries to buy what they need. There was the case of a man came here sometime ago. He saw a painting, requested a picture and left for a gallery in Ajah to ask for the same work. Someone from the gallery asked me for the same painting I sent to the man. I told him someone already asked for the painting and he showed me the same painting. He requested me to show him the number I sent the picture to. I did and it was the same number. “Those who have galleries already have a name and so their prices are high. What I will sell here for N4,500, may go for N15,000 at a gallery.’’ Besides, what was more vital to Daniel was how to attract collectors and sell the artworks with him. Aremu shared the same position, saying that he usually does not open for business every day because he sells artwork on part-time. He said, “I don’t open every day, those who want to buy artworks from me usually can call my number attached to the tree where my shed is. If they call me, I find how to meet them. ’When it is sunny, I find a place to hide. If it is raining, I pack the pieces and look for somewhere to put them. The sun can affect some of the paintings but I remove them when the sun is hot. When it calms down, I put them back. Now that it’s the rainy season, I look at the weather first before leaving home.’’ Adeyemi, like others, the artworks he sells are not formally displayed. He nailed them to tree branches providing inadequate shields from the weather. Aremu was however of the view that with the little profit he makes opening a gallery would be a herculean task. He said, “If I sell some works, I make some profits but it is not too much like that. I thank God that I am not begging for money. I still have something that is giving me the small change I need.” Aremu, who said he uses the profits he makes from selling artworks to cater to his family needs, has not a.lso attended any art exhibitions. He stated, “I haven’t attended any exhibitions. If I have the opportunity to do so, I will go.” Unlike Aremu, Obasohan had attended exhibitions before but hadn’t done so in recent times. She said, “I have attended exhibitions. We have also gone outside the country for exhibitions. I have attended art exhibitions twice in London; in 2010 and 2012. I have not been able to go for some time. We pray that in the coming year, other things being equal, we will be able to go for exhibitions between March and September.” Pricey art materials, poor economy, others The roadside sellers of artworks also desire to partner with gallery-owners to sell what arts enthusiasts termed quality artworks. But they are seemingly faced with varied challenges which included COVID-19 pandemic, security challenges, rising cost of things including art materials among others. Obasohan noted that a hike in transportation fares and poor economy had affected the business. She added, “The increase in fuel prices caused an increase in the cost of transportation. What was sold for between N50 and N70 is now sold for N350. Shoe polish used for finishing is also expensive. A small carving now costs N5, 000 which is five times of what it was before. A carving that was once sold for between N1,500 and N2,000 now costs N4,000. I have been in this business since 1998 and it’s a profitable one but we can’t say that now because there has been reduction in sales. As long as there is increase in many things, it will also affect the business.’’ She further said that before COVID-19 pandemic and the restrictions on international travel, insurgency in the North had been affecting the business of art sellers as “tourists were afraid to come into the country, only a few determined people still come around.” According to her, she has expanded her business to accommodate more sales. She added, “After insurgency gripped the country, the number of art buyers who came to the place dropped though the attacks are more in the North. Business of selling artworks was affected especially for those of us selling in open spaces. I have two children in the university and I had to support my husband by diversifying. I added raffia baskets, vases and flowers to the art business.” Obasohan noted that Nigerians love art and buy artworks. She said, “Children appreciate art. Some of them sometimes come to see artworks on display and return to their homes. The younger ones even insist on the type of carvings they want. I gave a small elephant carving to a child some years back. Recently, he returned and requested another one saying he had outgrown the one I gave him. I told him to bring his father to buy it. He brought his father and he bought a bigger one for him and I still gave him another one.’’ She added that the love for artworks, selling and making of artworks encouraged several people into the industry. Also speaking, Daniel said both genders love and buy artworks. He added, “Everyone loves art regardless of gender. Females and males appreciate art too.” On his part, Aremu said people of diverse classes come to the Mende area to buy artworks. He said, “Someone passing by can stop over and buy. Foreigners who stay around the place also buy. But Nigerians buy more than the foreigners.” Omolayo however stated that the pandemic offered some visual artists the opportunity to do more work. He stated, “But miraculously, I am still able to make sales though at a reduced price. The COVID-19 pandemic caught everyone unawares but during the lockdown, it helped me to work on more projects and to finish the abandoned ones. There were challenges too. It restricted the transactions one could do because the lockdown restricted people’s movement. Since it affected businesses, people’s spending power was reduced. It also affected the sales of artworks though I was contacted for some artworks which I sold at a lesser price than the original price. It was a gain to the buyers.” For both Daniel and Aremu, who sell artworks as a ‘side job,’ they also noted that low patronage had hit the business because of the country’s economic situation. On his part, Shyllon noted that roadside sellers of artworks were also satisfying the taste and desires of art lovers who go to them. Shyllon said, “They are satisfying the people’s level of taste, awareness and their income level. Those works are not signed, so there is no pretence about the authenticity of the works. They are obviously copies and there is nothing wrong with selling copies anywhere in the world, as long as you do not pretend to authenticate the works as original. You have the right to buy a roadside painting for N5,000 though the original work is $460 million.” He further pointed out that lovers of art could buy artworks directly from the artists through their social media handles. He added, “There are many established markets in Nigeria. If you want to buy directly from an artist, you can go on Instagram, you can locate an artist on Twitter or Facebook and more importantly many artists are trading their works on WhatsApp. If you cannot do that, you can go physically to established galleries that sell artworks there all around the country. If you are rich enough, you can go to an art auction house to buy particular artworks of an artist at the appropriate auction price after a competing bid. Auction houses should due their due diligence to provenance before they offer the work to the buyer.” Shyllon stated that Nigerians love paintings more in terms of choosing artworks. He said, “Paintings sell more in Nigeria because Nigerians attribute religious taboo to sculptures of any form, particularly that of our forefathers, the ethnographic and archaeological objects of Nigeria. Nigerians find it easier to relate with paintings than with sculptural objects because of religion, misinformation, misinterpretation and misrepresentation.” He warned that those clamouring for the return of the artworks allegedly stolen from Nigeria and now displayed in some museums in European countries would cause the devaluation of the artworks. Shyllon noted, “For those who categorise the ethnographic and archaeological works as forefathers, why do they go to British, German and other museums in the world that cherish the works to see them? Nigerians are still asking that the works be returned to Nigeria when they already regard the works as demonic. When those works return to Nigeria, by virtue of their demonic tagging, distancing ourselves from them, not caring for them, not having the capacity, equipment and scientific background to manage them, those works will eventually lose value and their prices will plummet.” Roadside art in different climes Sale of paintings, sculptures and carvings are common sights along some busy roads in Nigeria, whereas street art (generally referred to as public art) is obtainable in several countries especially in Europe. The public art is seen as illegal because it’s largely unsolicited and uncommissioned. In fact, creatives and promoters of the art are said to often “sign their murals and paintings with pseudonyms to safeguard them against arrest.” An art lover, Mr ‘Biyi Ola, said he had bought artworks at exhibitions, galleries and roadside, adding that he carefully selected the ones he liked. He said, “I think the major issue is that some of those by the roadside don’t have enough capital to own galleries. They are as good as those who own galleries. Those who sell by the roadside are probably looking for capital to enable them to get a place of their own to officially display their works.’’ He further said that he bought artworks he preferred at reasonable prices. Ola noted, “I buy whenever I need or see any design of my choice. Artworks are not items one buys every day. One doesn’t even buy them weekly. If the price is right and affordable, I buy it.” On his part, a retired chauffeur, Mr Jackson Asuquo, who is an art collector, told our correspondent that in his sitting room, there are framed paintings on the walls and a mini-carved elephant beside the table. He stated that now that he’s retired and with the increase in the prices of things generally, he doesn’t buy artworks anymore. He said, “I still love artworks but I only depend on my pension now.” Another art collector, Mr Tokunbo Adewale, said he sometimes patronises roadside art sellers apart from galleries. He added, “The prices of artworks in galleries are beyond my budget sometimes. I don’t really focus on pirated works, there’s no way I can even know if an artwork is not original when I want to buy about to make a purchase.” However, visual artist and art lover, Tope Ajayi, said that he hardly bought artworks by the roadside for fear of buying inferior ones. He said, “Buying artworks displayed by the roadside has huge demerits. I haven’t bought artworks by the roadside. One does not know the source of the artworks and quality art is all about authenticity. My own works have not been pirated but I know of artists whose works were copied.’’ On his part, art curator and manager of Thought Pyramid Art, Jeff Ajueshi, said patronising galleries was akin to taking one’s faulty car to a proper mechanic workshop. He said, “If one wants to repair one’s car, one will take it to a proper mechanic workshop where one’s mind will be at rest. It is the same with the gallery and sellers of roadside artworks. It is not as if they are bad, it is just that with a gallery, you have control over the production and authenticity of artworks.” Ajueshi noted that roadside art promoters also enjoy patronage from art lovers.  He said, “Artworks are sold along in some areas in Lagos, some of them have a stone gallery where they display works and what they mostly do are like water foundations. They are artists that have been able to survive through that and enjoy patronage but they are not documented artists. An artist that wants to be documented has to go through the art space which is the gallery. We have the traditional art space which is like the art market where local artisans display their works.’’ On galleries who reject the works of unknown artists, Ajueshi said, “In a proper art space, everyone is unique is his own view.’’ He encouraged galleries to support the works of young artists to encourage them. He said, “As a gallery, you can now think of managing the artist when you buy the artist’s work. For me, I collect artworks that are close to me. Once you are able to manage the artist then you can give the artist the direction if he doesn’t have one. When you see potential in the artist, you support such an artist for him to grow. Sometimes, it is not as if they are not pushing enough (the roadside artists), it is like the roadside artist is obeying your comfort zone. If the artist is actually comfortable with where he is, he won’t strive to improve on his skills. I might be driving on the street and see an artist who has potential and I reach out to him.” He added that those selling artworks in traffic sell framed foreign prints and not original artworks. Ajueshi stated, “I have not seen an original art piece being displayed in traffic. Those works you see being sold in traffic are not original artworks. They are prints. Those prints are not prints from Nigerian artists. They are foreign prints like an almanac for instance that are printed and framed and they are getting value for it.” An artist, Mr Odeniyi Anuoluwapo, corroborated Shyllon’s position that some artists are now selling their artworks via social media. Anuoluwapo said he sells his works online. He said, “I sell my artworks by posting them online. For me, originality is the key value of art though sometimes it seems that everything outstanding has been already created. We admire masterpieces of ancient artists wondering if it’s even possible to come up with something equally valuable. In such circumstances, plagiarism becomes more urgent than before, but it is clear that one’s works shouldn’t be copied from existing art because one wants to outstanding results.’’ Anuoluwapo stated that it was vital to study famous artists by emulating their styles and techniques to improve one’s works but not to duplicate such works. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com