Director-General, National Youth Service Corps, Brig. Gen. Shuaibu Ibrahim, in this interview with FRIDAY OLOKOR, explains the relevance of the scheme to national development Some critics believe that the NYSC is indirectly fuelling unemployment in Nigeria because there are employers that rely on corps members every time there is mobilisation rather than employing permanent workers. How do you address this? Not at all. The NYSC is not fuelling unemployment. The NYSC members contribute to our national development. Some corps members are retained by their employers on a permanent basis. But apart from that, they also learn a lot from their places of primary assignment. And to address this challenge of unemployment, the NYSC introduced a skill acquisition and entrepreneurship development programme for corps members and we have partnered various stakeholders like the Bank of Industry, the Central Bank of Nigeria, Access Bank and Unity Bank. Just recently, we signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Leventis Foundation, where corps members were trained in agriculture. Many of them have taken advantage of the skill acquisition training that we gave them in camp and also during post-camping training and they are doing wonderfully well. Another issue that has been agitating the minds of parents is that corps members are made to repeat service because of very flimsy offences.  Do you think some of the offences are commensurate with the punishments given? It is not true. We have the NYSC Act, which is an enabling law that governs our operation; that is one. Secondly, we have bye-laws and all the offences are well spelt out there. Corps members know that once you violate any of those laws, the penalties are there. Despite the efforts of the NYSC to inject sanity into its system and operations, fake corps members have continued to constitute nuisance. What is responsible for this? Has the NYSC ever prosecuted fake corps members? When the NYSC was established in 1973, there were protests against the scheme, but now people are struggling to come in. Even those who were earlier camped are attempting to come back for the second time. That was why when I came in, I introduced the state of birth in our certificate. Secondly, those of them that are not qualified, who attempted to come on board, I set up modalities to arrest them. So, some of them have been prosecuted. In Taraba State, some were prosecuted and jailed, while prosecutions are ongoing for others. But I can assure you that with the measures we have taken, from the last verification we had last month, the problem has reduced drastically because the Ministry of Education has also taken proactive measures by setting up a standing committee on this aspect and the NYSC was also brought on board. The NYSC came into existence after the Nigerian civil war to foster unity, among other reasons. It’s even argued that one of the reasons was to train manpower to complement the military. Now, with the security challenges in Nigeria, will you subscribe to a suggestion that corps members should be deployed in tackling insecurity in the country? The NYSC is part of the national defence policy. The corps members are very knowledgeable, because you can imagine the three weeks orientation and within a short time, you see that the corps members are disciplined to carry out so many wonderful things. So, I keep telling people that as patriotic Nigerians, we have no other country but Nigeria; so, if other non-Nigerians working as NGOs in the theatre of operation are assisting Nigerians, I think that foreigners should not be more patriotic than Nigerians. Our corps members are doing wonderfully well. If you go to the North-East, you will know what I’m saying. I visited Internally Displaced Persons’ camps in Maiduguri and I saw corps members teaching and to my amazement, you see corpers from different parts of Nigeria – Igbo, Yoruba and so on – and they are so patriotic. They are so committed and put in their best in the service of their country. I went also to Yobe, Bauchi and Gombe, and the corps members are doing wonderfully well. In spite of the security challenges, they are there putting their best, because they are patriotic and have no other country and they don’t expect foreigners, who are assisting Nigerians there, to be more patriotic than their fellow countrymen. So, they are going to render service to their fellow Nigerians and they will pray that by God’s grace this challenge will be over. Every country has its own peculiar problems. How is the NYSC tackling unemployment in Nigeria? Like I said earlier, we have to put our thinking caps on. How do we assist corps members at the end of the service year? We came up with the idea to establish the SAED programme. The skills are in automobile, fashion and so on. We train them in all spheres of life and the corps members are expected to choose and they start this training at the camp for the three-week orientation. By the time they leave the camp, they go on what we call post-camp training and in the post-camp training, they are supposed to continue with what they started at the orientation camp. For instance, Access Bank and Unity Bank taught them how to write business proposals and at the end of the day, a corps member won a car from Access Bank, because his business proposal was the best. Recently, we signed an MoU with the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control and we also have the Young Farmers’ Scheme where corps members and youths, who are interested in farming, will be supported. Recently, President Muhammadu Buhari also launched the National Youth Investment Trust Fund through the Ministry of Youth and Sports, where N75bn will be set aside for this and the minister (Sunday Dare) has assured the NYSC that our corps members, who are interested in such grants, can also apply. Recently, I also made a suggestion sequel to the meeting we had with the representative of states in Abuja and we called to also brief the Chairman of the Nigerian Governors’ Forum, Dr Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State on the need for the Federal Government to set up what we call the NYSC Trust Fund, which we can use to run the agency because the NYSC was built on three strata: federal, state and local governments. If you say no more NYSC, our education and medical sectors will be badly hit. At the same time, some parts of the fund will be set aside as grants so that as they are leaving the service, the grant will be given to them to set up businesses based on the skills they acquired during the service year. Once, they are leaving the NYSC, none of them will go and look for white collar jobs and as graduates; if you invest in them, I can assure you that they are going to take up most of the out-of-school children, because we want to make it a programme where, at least before two years, they must have brought in a particular number of youths to work on their various businesses and with this will solve a lot of the unemployment problems. With various money generating ventures of the NYSC, is it not possible for the scheme to be self- sustaining without relying on the government for subvention? For now, it is going to be very difficult. Where we are generating revenue from are two garment factories, one in Anambra State and the other in Minna, Niger State. We also have the table water factory and bakery. We will try our best, but there is the need for support from the private sector, because corps members render services both to the public and private sectors; so, there is the need for them to also come on board. With support of the private sector or with this trust fund, we can also use that to leverage on the establishment of more factories. How many NYSC staff and corps members have died of COVID-19? If the casualty rate is low, what has been the reason? If high, what is being done to check the trend? We have had no casualties on the side of the corps members, but we lost a staff member in Kano. There was an arrangement with the Presidential Task Force on COVID-19, now the Presidential Steering Committee. Through the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, test kits were provided for all the camps throughout the federation that once prospective corps members report to camp, they are tested and only those that test negative are permitted to serve, while those, who were positive, are taken to the isolation centre by the NCDC and the state health officials. How was the NYSC able to manage the COVID-19 pandemic? The procedures we put in place were a model. Other agencies and ministries, and even schools, copied and followed our model. We firstly shut down our operation and the government gave a directive to corps members that during lockdown, you don’t sit at home and collect allowances doing nothing. You must have acquired skills in camp; you must now put the skills into practice. And what did the corps members do? They went into producing sanitizers and face masks; we were the first to produce face masks, disinfectants and so on. Today, Monday, May 10 2021, you are clocking two years in office. If you’re to score yourself, what percentage score will you award yourself? I will leave that for Nigerians to judge and I can assure you that my conscience is that of a happy person; I came, I saw and I am still conquering. By God’s grace, before I leave next year, I can assure you that more things will come. I have brought in so many innovations, some of which I mentioned. I said in the NYSC, we have to put our thinking caps on, because we cannot continue to be a beggar agency; we must see how we can also generate revenue. So, for the first time in the history of the NYSC, we generated over N280m, which we paid to the Federation Account. We got this revenue from our integrated system, from our garment factory, table water factory, bakery and others. We also need to tap the potential of our corps members; they have skills and we have to make use of these skills and that is why I started what is called the NYSCwood, where through our corps members produce films and we showed a little of the film during the CDS award and the title of the film was, ‘NYSC:  A call to service’. By the time you watch that film, it is like a sensitisation of the public to our activities. By God’s grace, before I leave, we will see how we can produce two or more films. I have gone to see the Nigerian Film and Video Censors Board. I have gone to meet with the President of Nollywood; I have met with some film producers; I met Prince Ned Nwoko recently; we are going to partner them so that they can help promote my corps members. So, apart from acting Nigerian films, they will be trained; they will be cheaper crew members and movie producers from these corps members in the future, which we intend to do. I also established what we call the NYSC Sports and Cultural Festival. From the fallout from the last one we had in 2019, I established what we call the NYSC National Cultural Troop and in this troop, corps members can be invited by both the public and private sectors to functions or occasions to come and perform for different cultures in Nigeria.  We have carried out a lot of innovations.    ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com