AHEAD of the Lagos State Local Government Council election, a pro-All Progressives Congress group, Lagos4Lagos Movement, has described the N2m nomination fee imposed on the party’s aspirants as outrageous. The group argued that there was no justification for increasing the fee from N550,000, which was the cost in 2017 to N2m in 2021. Speaking with newsmen in Ikeja, on Thursday, the Principal Coordinator of the movement, Mr Olabode Makinde, said the increase did not take into account Nigeria’s current economic realities. He said, “According to the new guidelines, the nomination form for the position of Local Government Area chairman, now stands at N2m, a sharp increase from the N550,000 as at 2017, plus N50,000 admin fee for a male, while females get 50 percent off, exclusive of the admin fee. “With our minimum wage standing at N30,000 a month, coupled with a harsh economy that got worsened by the COVID-19 pandemic, this move is clearly insensitive and definitely not in the interest of the ordinary Lagosian with inalienable rights to seek and contest the elective positions. “Moreover, the Lagos State Independent Electoral Commission that is saddled with the sole responsibility of conducting the elections has a fee of N150,000 as the highest to be paid depending on what office is being sought. “So, what is the justification of the party’s high demands for fees for nomination forms? Secondly, the party’s imposition of a particularly awkward screening that the aspirants are now subjected to begs the big question of veiled intentions.” The group’s principal coordinator described as “new and very subjective,” the inclusion of candidates’ contributions to the party, experience in public service etc, as conditions to aspire for the position of council chairman and councilllor. “Ideally, the only requirements should be as provided by our nation’s constitution. Over the years, our local government elections have been ingloriously branded as an exclusive preserve of the state where popular candidates win elections and are blatantly denied to favour the state’s handpicked preferences.” When contacted, the spokesman for the Lagos State chapter of the APC, Mr Seye Oladejo, advised the group to channel its grievances through the appropriate party channel. He, however, stated, “Contrary to their opinion, the guidelines and modalities as released by the committee have opened up the political landscape for every interested member of the party to aspire without any fear of discrimination or intimidation. “The choice of the open secret ballot as the mode of primary is to guarantee a level playing ground and engender internal democracy. The massive turnout of aspirants to purchase nomination forms has made nonsense of their apprehension.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com