DIRECTOR General of the Voice of Nigeria, Osita Okechukwu, has urged the Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi, to use his position as Chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum to unlock democracy at the state level. READ ALSO: NCAA lifts Azman Air suspension after six weeks Okechukwu, spoke in an interview in Abuja, on Sunday. He explained that Fayemi, as a high-ranking member of the All Progressives Congress, shouldn’t have used The Platform, a programme organised by the Covenant Christian Centre, aired live on Channels Television, to cast the APC in bad light. He was reacting to a statement made by Fayemi during the programme. The Ekiti State governor had said, “If your search is a regime change in a democracy, there is only one way for regime change in a democracy. You work towards it. “Another election is going to come if you do not like what APC is doing, stop agonising, organise against the party. Link up with others who are organising and then kick the APC out of office and put people that you think will do better.” The VON DG said Fayemi’s comments were inciting Nigerians against the APC Okechukwu said, “Is it politically correct for a person of his caliber to use such a worldwide audience and uncommon platform to incite people against our great party? “Yes, one agrees with him that there are competing narratives and some unforced security errors were made. But one expected him to use his acclaimed intellectual prowess to mobilise his fellow governors to unlock democracy at the state and local government tiers. “In the market place of restructuring APC is marked Zero percent, whilst we scored more than 40 per cent in opening the frontier of democracy with independent judiciary and legislature at the state level. That’s real restructuring.” Okechukwu further said, “A diligent party leader could have commenced mobilization of his colleagues in 2018, the day President Buhari signed the amendment of Section 121(3) into law.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com