The Lagos State Emergency Management Agency, Lagos Fire Service, Federal Road Safety Corps, Lagos Safety Commission, Lagos State Police Command, and other stakeholders gathered on Wednesday at LASEMA Quarterly Stakeholders’ Meeting to devise fresh emergency response strategies to curb accidents and incidents in Lagos State. The event was held at the Lagos Chambers of Commerce and Industries. LASEMA DG, Olufemi Oke-Osanyintolu in his speech said the meeting couldn’t have come at a better time than now when LASEMA is working to improve its synergies in the areas of operational activities, collaboration, sharing of information and strategic planning towards effective and efficient emergency and disaster management in Lagos. He said, “The stakeholders’ meeting with the theme ‘Managing recent challenges in disaster management’ is intended to provide us with workable strategies to renew the confidence in our collective ability, responsibility and capacity to rise up to any emergency and disaster challenges in the state. “Disasters by nature are unforeseen and sudden which explains why the blows inflicted by them are usually deadly and devastating, hence the urgent need to achieve a sustainable disaster risk reductions.” The LASEMA boss said the Agency has been managing emergencies and disasters “with the active collaboration of all the stakeholders since its establishment. The impact has been positively felt during the incidents of flooding, collapsed buildings, fire outbreaks, road accidents, gas explosions, and pipeline vandalism amongst others. “However, I wish to remind us that despite our great strides in building the capacity of Lagos residents from the grassroots up, since that is where the impact of disasters are most felt, creating effective synergy amongst Stakeholders in the health sector to ensure complete success of the pre-hospital care services, as well as inaugurating, training and equipping Local Emergency Management Committees, across local governments schools, markets with incessant trainings staff.” On his part, the Lagos State Commissioner for Special Duties and Inter-governmental Relations, Engr. Tayo Bamgbose Martins, urged the emergency responders to do more in order to forestall tragedy and reduce casualties. The Commissioner said, “A quick look at data generated between January 1st 2021 and 31st April, 2021 reveals that of the 511 cases attended by LASEMA, January recorded 114 incidents and got to quick peak in March with 144 incidents, then dropped to 127 in April, 2021, giving hope that this new LASEMA peak and other strategies that are in the offing, incidents rates would not only be drastically reduced, but will be retained at an all-time low.” He also stated that the soon-to-be inaugurated LASEMA Epe Base will facilitate LASEMA’s operations in the Epe axis. Also speaking at the event, FRSC Sector Commander in Lagos State, Olusegun Ogungbemide, stressed on the need for timely sharing of information amongst first responders. This, he said, will enhance emergency response in a cosmopolitan and mega city like Lagos. Details later…