A FORMER Senate spokesperson and the National Chairman of the South West Agenda for 2023, Senator Adedayo Adeyeye, on Wednesday, accused Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi, of plotting to decimate the All Progressives Congress. Adeyeye urged party leaders to call Fayemi to order. He said the governor’s actions and utterances “smirk of quick, deliberate, steps aimed at rescuing victory from the mouth of APC’s nascent national electoral fortunes.” This was contained in a statement signed by his Media Manager, Mr. Gboyega Adeoye, in Ado Ekiti. He spoke in response to sack of the APC Caretaker Chairman of Ado Ekiti Ward 8, Clement Afolabi, on trumped up allegation of fraternising with SWAGA, a group which had been canvassing support for the presidential bid of APC National Leader, Senator Bola Tinubu. Adeyeye said, “We condemn the lingering undemocratic approach of Fayemi to issues in recent times and insist on a call to order. We enjoin our party men and women, across the country, to feel free to identify with SWAGA. “SWAGA is APC, and APC is SWAGA. There is no way a member can commit anti-party offences for favouring the presidential choice of a party man.” He described the political happenings in Ekiti under Fayemi’s watch, as “a theatre of the absurd by an evil intending vicious leader with a mission to smash the eggs, kill the hen and put the entire poultry on fire.” The APC chieftain who described the treatment visited on Afolabi as aberration, said, “SWAGA is not unaware of the underground plots to frustrate the rising political profile of Asiwaju Tinubu in the Southwest and indeed Nigeria, as the undisputable choice to bring stability into our fragile democracy and lift the nation economically.” Reacting to the allegations, the APC Director of Media and Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Party Matters, Sam Oluwalana, said, “They were not supposed to bring the governor into the matter because it was a ward level issue, which the governor was not involved in. Fayemi is a democrat. He has done nothing to warrant the attack. “He has not done anything to show he was trying to decimate the party or anti-party as being alleged. Whatever is happening at that ward has nothing to do with the governor at all. Those who are alleging should be concerned with having peace in the party at that level. Our quest should be peace and not divisive tendencies.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com