Power supply in Nigeria comes majorly from seven power generation plants that produce 59 per cent of the total electricity supplied across the country, the World Bank has said. According to the bank, Nigeria’s power sector had been operationally inefficient and this was further exacerbated by high losses and lack of payment discipline. It disclosed this in additional details contained in the bank’s report on Nigeria’s Power Sector Recovery Programme, obtained by our correspondent in Abuja on Monday. “The power sector is operationally inefficient with unreliable supply exacerbated by high losses and lack of payment discipline,” the bank stated. It added, “Over reliance of the grid on the electricity supplied from just seven power plants (59 per cent).” It outlined the seven power generation plants and their percentage contribution to the country’s electricity grid to include Egbin, contributing 13 per cent; Azura-Edo, Kainji, Jebba, and Delta, all contributing eight per cent each. Others include Shiroro and Odukpami, both contributing seven per cent each to the national power grid, according to findings by the global financial institution. Further analysis of the report showed that the country actually has 25 power generation plants that are supposed to be producing electricity to the grid. But out the 25, seven power generation plants produce the bulk of the electricity consumed nationwide. The other 18 plants with negligible contributions to the grid include Afam VI, Geregu, Okpai, Olorunsogo, Omotosho, Rivers IPP, Geregu NIPP and Omotosho NIPP. Others aree Omoku, Alaoji NIPP, Trans Amadi, Paras Energy, Ibom Power, Sapele, Dadin Kowa, Ihovbor NIPP, Olorunsogo NIPP and Gbarain. The World Bank further observed that about 7.60 kilowatt-hour of every 10kWh of electricity generated in Nigeria came from gas, meaning that gas-fired power plants produced bulk of the electricity consumed nationwide. However, operators in the sector had repeatedly raised concerns over gas supply for power generation, as they had complained of inadequate gas to fire power generation plants. The Advisory Power Team in the Office of the Vice President, for instance, had often identified insufficient gas supply, distribution and transmission infrastructure constraints as major causes of poor power generation in Nigeria. \Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com