The Kogi State Pension Board Chairman, Solomon Akeweje, has been killed by gunmen. He was reportedly killed on Saturday while returning from Ilorin, Kwara State, in company with the Chairman of the Yagba West Local Government Area, Pius Kolawole, whose whereabouts is unknown. It was gathered that the pension board boss was shot and killed by gunmen in Eruku, some kilometres to Egbe, Kwara State. The state Commissioner of Police, Ayuba Ede, who confirmed the incident via WhatsApp message said, “The incident took place at Eruku general area, Kwara State. Investigation is in progress.” Two kidnappers killed, victims freed Meanwhile, officials of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps alongside members of the local vigilante in the state have killed two kidnappers, who have been unleashing terror on commuters along Idah-Ajegu Road. A source said, “The the team ran into the kidnappers while terrorising commuters on the road, overpowered them and killed two.” Two other suspected kidnappers were arrested in the operation, while two victims were said to have been freed. A statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the state Governor, Mr Onogwu Muhammed, said Governor Yahaya Bello had instructed the local government chairmen, security agencies, vigilantes and hunters to work harmoniously to root out criminals from the state. The governor was quoted as saying, “We will go after you through the valley, in the caves, on land and water. We will make Kogi a hell for you and we will root you out of our state using any means possible.” In a separate incident, a gang of kidnappers operating in the Dekina Local Government Area on Sunday met their Waterloo when the joint task force of neighborhood watch, vigilantes, hunters and other security agents confronted the hoodlums, leading to the death of two members. A statement from Onogwu gave the check names of the kidnappers as Monday Mimiko and Abu Billi. The team was said to have freed three persons kidnapped by the gang. The gang was said to have been terrorising the Okura area of the Dekina LGA for years. The council, Ishaq Okolo, said, “The security operatives acted on the instruction of the governor the state to fish out criminals.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com