Sunshine Stars Chief Coach, Kayode Julius, is the latest technical crew member to quit the Ondo State-owned club, Saturday PUNCH reports. This comes after The PUNCH had reported on Friday that a massive exodus of technical officials was set to hit club following the exit of head coach Gbenga Ogunbote and his assistant Lawal Abimbola on Thursday. Our correspondent’s findings showed that almost all the members of Sunshine’s technical crew are on the verge of quitting the club following unpaid salaries and allowances. The two technical officials left at the club are fitness trainer Kayode Emmanuel and goalkeepers trainer Busuyi. Ogunbote, who joined Sunshine last September on a second spell, is owed eight months salaries while the technical crew members he met at the club have not been paid in 14 months. The players, it was also learnt, are owed eight months wages by the Ondo State Government. In a letter addressed to the Chairman, Ondo State Football Agency Interim Committee, and dated May 28, Julius pleaded with the club’s management to pay him his outstanding 14 months salary arrears and bonuses. “I write to tender my letter of resignation as the Chief Coach of Sunshine Stars,” Julius wrote in the letter made available to Saturday PUNCH. “I thank the people of Ondo State for giving me the opportunity to be coach in the team. I thank the management for their support. I wish them success in their matches. Sir, my 14 months outstanding salaries and bonuses should be paid.” Meanwhile, Saturday PUNCH learnt that former Gray’s International FC coach Sulaiman Kamil is touted as a possible replacement for Ogunbote at the club. Sunshine are without a win in their last 16 NPFL matches and are placed 18th on the NPFL log with 21 points from 23 matches. Their last win was on January 31 – a 3-1triumph over Enugu Rangers. They face Lobi Stars in their next game in Makurdi on Sunday. Officials and players of Sunshine Queens, the Ondo State-owned women’s league side, also suffer same fate as their Sunshine Stars counterparts. They are reportedly owed 12 months salaries. Last week, the club’s head coach, Wemimo Matthew, joined Edo Queens alongside her assistant Niyi John and goalkeepers trainer. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com