Globally, training for registered nurses is done either in an educational institution with inputs from ministry of health, and the regulatory body which is the nursing council. The training is in keeping with international policy on nurse education set by the International Council for Nurses (ICN). At the beginning of the 20th century, precisely in 1901, the ICN proposed that nurse training be carried out in the universities to equip nurses with clinical and leadership skills to manage health challenges nationally and globally. Changing healthcare landscape especially since the beginning of the 21st Century led the World Health Organization (WHO) to advice institutions to train nurses that are well equipped to provide leadership in light of current health realities. Being an informed organization, Nursing and Midwifery Council of Nigeria (NMCN)  in its policy of 2016, guided by global best practice, stipulated that nurse education be moved to colleges and universities. Therefore, the plan to move nurse training in Akwa Ibom State from Health to Education is welcomed, though it is long overdue. Gold Standard Certification Worldwide Best practice is that baccalaureate degree in nursing be awarded to a person who successfully completes the programme of study in a college or a university. The gold standard  for over a decade ago is that students all over the world have been awarded the Bachelor of Science (BSc) in nursing on completion of their study. For instance, Australia in 1992 upgraded education for all registered nurses from diploma to degree. The United Kingdom also upgraded theirs about the same time as Australia. In 2000, in English Speaking Caribbean, the Regional Nursing Body (RNB) passed a resolution which set baccalaureate degree as entry to practice qualification for registered nurses.  In 2005, all students admitted into colleges and universities to be trained as registered nurses were matriculated into BSc programme in Jamaica. In Nigeria, the NMCN in 2016 set the BSc as entry to practice qualification for registered nurse (RN). Prior to this recent decision by nursing council, the RN to BSc degree programme was commenced at the University of Ibadan (UI) in 1965. In fact, the programme at UI was established to enable nurses who were awarded the BSc of that institution provide healthcare leadership in Nigeria, and in countries within the West African sub-region. Qualification Stipulated by the NMCN The NMCN has two options in terms of the qualification a nurse should earn after completion of studies at either a college or university. The first option, which is the gold standard is the BSc, the second, is the HND, which the regulatory body only allows states claiming to lack capacity to award. To ensure that students who studied to become registered nurses in a college are awarded baccalaureate degree, the institution has to affiliate with a university that offers a BSc in nursing programme. However, where there is ‘no university’ that offers undergraduate degree in nursing as claimed by a state, the regulatory body with hesitancy permits the college to award the HND. Permission by NMCN appears to have a caveat, the states laying claim to a lack of access to affiliation with a university are allowed to go ahead if they settle for a certification not found on the agenda of the world nursing body. BSc or HND – The Akwa Ibom State Debate One appreciates that a quest for value appears to generate a debate about the type of certification that should be awarded to students after they have successfully completed their study in a college of nursing. In the discourse, one camp argues in support of the BSc, while the other is in support of the HND. Interestingly, both camps draw their evidence from the directive by NMCN. Careful watch of the debate shows that both camps genuinely try to implement a change, but the issue is the extent to which each camp is ambitious. The question to ask is whether the camps have embarked on conscious reflection over the subject in discourse and examine consequences of a type of certification in a competitive world in the 21st century. To put things straight, “How competitive is the certification that a camp would want for young and promising Akwa Ibom State men and women?” One could also ask, “What is the evidence to support one’s argument as best practice?” Another question to ask, “Is Akwa Ibom really incapacitated, or so disadvantaged or maybe, so helpless such that the state is not able to float a degree awarding college of nursing in Nigeria?” One last boring question to ask, “What are the consequences of the certification of choice and its utilitarian value over the alternative?” Examining above questions and others that one could think of should guide actors within the camps to reflect on the implications that the decision they make would have for Akwa Ibom now and in years to come. Issues with Affiliation There is no law in Nigeria that states that affiliate institutions must be localised in the same state, province, or country. There are so many professional programmes run by colleges in Nigeria that are affiliated to universities that are not located in the same state as the college. For instance, Bigard Memorial Seminary, Enugu is an affiliate of the Pontifical Urban University in Rome, Italy, and the University of Ibadan in Oyo State; Osun State College of Education is an affiliate of the University of Uyo in Akwa Ibom State; Yaba College of Technology, Lagos and College of Education, Ekiti are affiliates of the University of Nigeria in Enugu State; Catholic Institute of West Africa, Port Harcourt and Essien Ukpabio Presbyterian Theological College Itu are affiliates of the University of Calabar in Cross River State. Examples cited above represent less than 30% of the total out of state affiliations. Therefore, the proposed College of Nursing  can affiliate with any university located in any state in Nigeria, provided the university has the BSc in nursing programme. The Central School of Nursing, Ikot Ekpene an asset of Akwa Ibom State was in my opinion built for a future development, and now is the future. We have to build on the legacy bequeathed to us by our past leaders who established that school based on their concept of value, otherwise, posterity will have it that we had chosen to race to the bottom. Why should Akwa Ibom College of Nursing issue BSc? Without a doubt, Akwa Ibom State deserves a degree awarding college of nursing. Reasons to award the BSc are stated below and are inexhaustive. The Global standard is that the BSc is awarded in India, the UK, Romania, Cuba, Jamaica, Australia, Singapore, Honk Kong, etc. As of 2012, the UNESCO had ranked Akwa Ibom among the first 10 states in Nigeria with a high literacy rate. In 2020, the National Bureau of Statistics placed Akwa Ibom State in 3rd position in the National Adult Literacy ranking, and in 1st place within the South-South region. That report revealed that Akwa Ibom’s performance was not only consistently high in all categories but was higher than the national average of 62%. Akwa Ibom has had many nurses that have been educated to masters and PhD level, including professors who could teach in the college, or could advertise and recruit nation-wide. In fact, Akwa Ibom students admitted into  the college of nursing will be indexed by the NMCN just like students admitted into a BSc nursing programme in any university. The college students will also present five credits in English Language, mathematics, physics, chemistry, and biology for indexing as undergraduate students admitted into the universities to study the same nursing. Moreover, many adults who would desire to study nursing for career change as is the case globally, could chose to fulfil their dream with a degree from college owned by their own state. Therefore, Akwa Ibom State as a small unit in a mammoth country should avoid a situation that leads to intentional removal of social ladder from our people. Dual entry qualifications into a profession means unequal grading at entry to practice. Rather, our people should be well equipped so they can be competitive when opportunities to contest with others present. Making it unambiguous, HND is good, the views of the writer of this article do not in any way demean the certificate or suggest that it is inferior. Rather, the views are guided by historical context of nursing, position of the ICN, the WHO’s model which requires institutions to train nurses that are equipped for healthcare leadership, and global best practice in nurse training in the 21st century. Weighing the Implications of a Certification Irrespective of the camp in the debate, awarding BSc will be a win-win for Akwa Ibom State. Having a state-owned degree awarding college of nursing should give the people of Akwa Ibom reason to be proud of both the institution and their God given state. The programme could bring wide-ranging benefits to the government, communities, families, and individuals. Benefits could be in the form of having nursing manpower needed by public, private and community service organizations. While the institution would provide training to young people and equip them with skills to care for Akwa Ibom public, existing nurses could also use the college for training and professional development. Not awarding the BSc to the nurses would perpetuate the detrimental effect on nurses as it regards labour market. For instance, our nurses would experience restriction in career choice, differential grading at entry point, differential reward though performing the same tasks, and restricted access to the career ladder. Additionally, those nurses would also experience restricted job mobility, suffer alienation and variants of abuses. Furthermore, they would experience discrimination, marginalization, lack of opportunity to access funding for study, since scholarship is usually restricted to students in the baccalaureate programme. By default, our young men and women would be programmed to miss opportunities from time of training to termination of practice at retirement. Sadly, the imminent limitation would not be due to their inability, but due to the disability netted into their future progress at the design stage. In fact, the negative effect could in the future be exponential, and Akwa Ibom State can prevent it at design stage. Therefore, to train nurses who could demonstrate healthcare leadership at the state, national, or international level, stake-holders have a duty to conduct analysis of the course of action, such could help bring to the fore, consequences that are intended or otherwise. The decision process should have health of Akwa Ibom people in focus, be consultative, seek to advance the nursing profession, and be nurse-led, so nurse leaders can properly advise the governor appears ambitious to get the college started. Consideration should be given to a model of training that will guide the proposed institution to produce well equipped graduates who would work in concert with national or global actors in healthcare leadership. By David S. Udo, RN Email: davidudo973@yahoo.com