A former presidential candidate of the Peoples Trust, in the 2019 election, Mr. Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim, has called on the Federal Government, to tackle poverty, rising illiteracy as well as bigotry among Nigerians in order to end our security problems.Olawepo-Hashim made the suggestion in a statement titled, ‘The dark days are here, but the light will come,’ which he made available to journalists in Abuja on Wednesday. He expressed regret that the nation has been witnessing unending sorrow as most families across the country bleed. Olawepo-Hashim said, “That darkness surrounds a land does not mean that light will not still come. “The root causes of insecurity are rising poverty, rising illiteracy, bigotry, and hate. “Nigeria is able to rise again once we commit to tackle these causative factors of insecurity even as we rejig the security architecture and structure of governance. “But in the immediate (as a matter of urgency), we must take the following steps to halt the advancement of enemy forces that are already amassed in Shiroro, Niger State, around Kaduna area, and pushing towards Nasarawa State. “They tried to come through Kogi but the governor of Kogi was very smart by ensuring they were not able to build a base there.” The politician said the enemies’ plan was to encircle Abuja and take over the nation’s Federal Capital Territory. He added, “We must halt the enemy’s advancement immediately. If we need help from our loyal partners and friends, we must get it quickly. “In the minimum, we must implement the following agenda: establish a Defence Co-operation Agreement with a friendly nation to halt the enemy’s advance. “Those who are fighting Nigeria are from all over the world, the enemy is multinational in its composition, we must put our house in order by resolving internal wrangling through dialogue, fairness, and justice. “We must have a broad-based cabinet that can inspire hope, efficiency, and national unity. We must immediately create the framework for states and local governments to have their own police.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com