Three workers unions at the Nigerian Institute of Social and Economic Research, Ibadan,Oyo State on Tuesday protest against the alleged planned reappointment of the Director General of the institute, Dr Folarin Gbadebo-Smith. The protesting workers, who blocked the entrance of the institute, accused the DG of administrative incompetence, fraud, absenteeism and low research output in the past four years. The Chairman of Academic Staff Union of Research Institutions, NISER, Muyiwa Babatimehin; Chairman, Senior Staff Association of Universities, Teaching Hospitals and Research Institutions, Mathew Olagunju and Chairman, Non-Academic Staff Union, Theophilus Tubi, led the  protest. The protesters said all workers would move against the DG if his appointment was renewed. The workers accused Gbadebo-Smith of spurious and unverifiable research activities purportedly conducted by the institute. Babatimehin said, “We found it auspicious to conscientiously implore the authorities to save NISER from an impending calamity by not returning the incumbent – Dr Folarin Gbadebo-Smith – as Director-General at the expiration of his tenure in May, 2021. “The authorities should put in place a process of appointing a new DG for NISER as enshrined in the Conditions of Service for Federal Research and Development Agencies, Institutes and Colleges: and immediately commence the investigation of these allegations and other possible administrative and financial infractions and culpable individuals be made answerable. The DG when contacted said he was still under instruction not to react to the allegations of the workers on the pages of newspapers. He had earlier told our correspondent on the phone that the ministry had started investigating the allegations and would make public the outcome. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com