Basorun Sehinde Arogbofa is the Secretary-General of the pan-Yoruba socio-political organisation, Afenifere. In this interview with PETER DADA, the octogenarian speaks on the state of the nation, the position of the group and the agitation for a Yoruba nation, among other national issues In recent times, some people have been calling for an autonomous Yoruba nation and this has become a controversial issue among the Yoruba elites and non-elites. What is the position of Afenifere on the matter? Afenifere can’t take sides; it is the father of the Yoruba groups and also sees itself and behaves as the conscience of the nation. These two have to be blended. We have been talking about restructuring of this country. It is not just a new thing. The late Baba Obafemi Awolowo said it and ever since, it has become a singsong. We need to restructure the country to gain true federalism. We believe that if this country is restructured, our problems will be solved. Afenifere is still on restructuring. As to secessionist tendencies, we are being conscious because of the outcome of secession. But for restructuring, that is what we fully support. But if there are those calling for secession, it may be because of their recent experiences, which are not good. Look at what his happening all over the country and especially down South; kidnappings, raping, killings, herdsmen atrocities as well as insecurity of lives and property. It appears as if the Federal Government is becoming powerless and our people are being denied a lot of things. If the younger ones see things from this angle and they see themselves being driven away from their land or being harassed from their lands or the Fulani herdsmen want to take away their land by force, they have the right to seek a redress. And I think all these things are now pushing the younger ones to talk of secession. In Afenifere, from what we called self-determination, the Yoruba have suffered a lot in the recent past, but we are of the opinion that restructuring will be the better thing for us than secession. Restructuring has been the position of the Afenifere and the report of the 2014 confab has not been attended to by this administration. Would you advise the Buhari regime to organise its own national dialogue to discuss the way forward? We don’t think we need any constitutional conference again at this point, because all we need to make this country work is already in the 2014 confab report. What are the problems facing us in this country? Insecurity of lives and property. Ways of addressing them are there. For example, the need for state police, we said it there. Talk of unemployment, there is a solution to the issue of unemployment. Another problem we are facing in this country is lack of development. We made provisions that let every state develop what it has. Apart from giving a competitive orientation, it will make every state to be more responsible to their citizens, because as members of the confab, we were very well briefed on the fact that every state has enough mineral deposits to make everybody in the state happy, but this is not being done. We’ve held so many conferences in the past and many meetings to do this kind of thing, and if there is the need for any confab or whatever, let the Presidency bring together all these past reports and harmonise them. That will solve the problem. It’s unfortunate that the present government started on a false note of not having the strength of character and courage to look into the 2014 confab report. I think it’s most unfortunate. The theory of continuity of governance is being breached. It must be about continuity. Whatever lapses that might have been contained in that report should be separated and those things that were good for the country in the report should have been implemented. After all, it is not foreigners that sat for that period, it’s Nigerians brought together from different parts. Another round of elections is coming in two years, will Afenifere support a pro-restructuring presidential candidate the way it did for former President Goodluck Jonathan in 2015? We supported former President Jonathan because he gave the impression that he would implement all those resolutions, but don’t forget that there are about three major areas of implementation. Those that can be implemented through administrative fiat, those that will go through legal implementation and those that will go through the National Assembly. But let me tell you, with the way things are currently in the country, elections in 2023 are dicey. Afenifere is of the opinion that until two things are put in place, one might find it difficult to stake his neck. Restructuring is one of them. Look at the issue of terrorism, killings, attempts by some groups to drive others away from their possessions and things like that. The constitution that is faulty and foisted on us by the military. All these are problems as well as life insecurity and property insecurity. Unless all these things are addressed, how can you have a successful election? These are our anxieties about 2023. So, we want a situation where some of these things are addressed, so that whenever we are going to have an election, you and I will be safe and alive. But with the way things are going, unless some drastic measures are adopted, who knows who will see 2023 or who will be alive by that time. So, let us see how much of the problems we can solve now before we go into 2023. Afenifere is celebrating 70 years of its existence. How will you describe the journey so far? Well, we have been having a lot of controversies, misrepresentations and a lot of misconceptions. Not very many people understand the umbilical cord between the Action Group and Afenifere, or what one can refer to as a symbiotic relationship between the two. Afenifere connotes about three identifiable philosophies. The first is Afenifere as a generic term – Afenifere: Love me, I love you; a group of people who show interest in one another, who love one another. Another philosophy of Afenifere is Afenifere as a political slogan. For example, when we say Afenifere, we say, ‘Ire owo, Afernifere, ire omo’. The third philosophy is as a political or socio-political organisation, like the defunct Action Group, UPN, SDP, AD and PAC. And for each of these political parties, people relate them with Afenifere. But for the socio-political organisation, which we are celebrating and which I’m the secretary-general, what we have is just Afenifere. So, we have Afenifere from three different perspectives. What does the 70th anniversary celebration mean to the members of the group? We are celebrating maturity and old age. We have gone to that level. We are also celebrating the group’s ability to continue to offer leadership to the Yoruba people and simultaneously celebrating the group’s ability to offer quality opinion and leadership traits. We are also celebrating the respect the nation has for Afenifere. The nation has respect for us. Any time we speak, they listen. We are also celebrating our ability to stick to the philosophy and ideology despite apparently insurmountable problems. In particular, we are celebrating quality leadership that the Afenifere has been providing for this nation from the time of Awolowo to Ajasin, Ajasin to Adesanya and Adesanya to Fasoranti. So, all these things are worth celebrating. It is rumoured that you are planning to step aside as the secretary-general of the group. How true is this? Yes, it is true. What informed the decision and how have you been managing the group up till this time? It has not been easy. But I thank God. I took over in a time of domestic crisis but I was able to pull the association out of the instability it was going through by being brought in as the secretary-general. This was 2011. I was able to mobilise the few members I inherited. Now, it is a multitude despite very many problems. For instance, we now run state branches effectively, which was not so then. Afenifere consists of all manners of characters – politicians, local and national leaders in their rights coming from different backgrounds but meeting on the Afenifere platform. It also consists of different sexes, ages and religious backgrounds. The fact that the membership is daily increasing is a pointer to my effective management and harmonisation of all these differences. Again, many members must have been able to learn something from what they refer to as my level headedness and the approach and the way I handled issues when they were at breaking points. I served the leaders to the best of my ability, but I had to serve the association better for continuity. And of course, mine is a peaceful and smooth handover of power – no rancour, no acrimony, no altercations despite dealing with human beings of different characters and different orientations. It’s been a period of 10 years of brain-tasking all the time because of what we stood for in this country as the conscience of the nation. And of course, as the secretary, the livewire of any organisation, there were problems but because of skilful management, we were able to overcome all these problems by the grace of God and the cooperation of other members. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com