Today marks the 10th year popstar, Davido, ventured into the Nigerian music industry. Since he ventured into the Nigerian music scene, the hitmaker has won virtually every music award on the continent and many international awards and recognitions. The PUNCH highlights Davido’s top ten songs of all time. Dami Duro This is the singer’s first smashing hit single, which introduced him to the Nigerian music industry as a force to be reckoned with. Like the lyrics of the song, the artiste announced that, like a moving train, no one can stop him. He also made it known that his father is a wealthy man. The official video of the song was posted on YouTube nine years ago and it has garnered about 10 million views.  Ekuro Ekuro is another early classic of the multiple award-winning artiste. The song was released on January 25, 2012 and its music video was recorded and directed in Miami by Antwan Smith. The song, which was released on YouTube about eight years ago, has over seven million views.   Skelewu On August 13, 2013, the pop star released the smashing hit song, Skelewu and it became a favourite among revellers. To promote the song, Davido, on 18 August 2013, uploaded an instructional dance video that was directed by Jassy Generation to YouTube. The video’s release was accompanied by an announcement of a “Skelewu” dance competition. This made fans go wild and garnered more mileage for the song. Skelewu was supported with two music videos. The first music video, directed by Sesan, was released on October 15, 2013. It was uploaded to YouTube using a parody account. Shortly after the video’s release, Davido said someone betrayed him by releasing it and that he would make another video with Moe Musa ― a UK based music video director. The official music video for “Skelewu” was recorded and directed in London by Moe Musa, and was released in October 2013. The video has garnered about 27 million views on YouTube.   Aye Davido released the T-Spize-produced song “Aye” on February 1, 2014. The video for the song was directed by Clarence Peters and released on February 7, 2014. In the video, Davido played a poor farmer who fell in love with the prince’s fiancé. The video was mostly shot on a farm and it shows Davido trying to woo the princess into becoming his bride. So far, the video which was released on YouTube has 64 million views.   If On February 17, 2017, Davido released the song, If, which was recorded in London. The record was produced by Tekno, who also ghost-wrote the track for Davido. The song was certified diamond by the Recording Industry of South Africa, indicating shipments of 200,000 units. Also, the song won the Best Pop Single and Song of the Year at The Headies in 2018. The music video was directed by Director Q and produced by Tunde Babalola. Davido teamed up with menswear designer, Orange Culture, to release a capsule collection inspired by the song ‘If’. The official video of the song was released on YouTube about four years ago and it has been viewed about 128 million times.  Fall As a follow up to the commercial success of the song, If, Davido released Fall on June 2, 2017. The song samples a line from Kojo Funds’s track “Dun Talking”. Fall was certified platinum by the Recording Industry of South Africa. It was one of the top-100-most-Shazam-searched singles in America in January 2019, and was a top-10 record on Shazam in New York. Also, in February 2019, it became the longest-charting Nigerian pop song in Billboard history. Fall was ranked at number 163 on Pitchfork’s list of the 200 Best Songs of the 2010s. The music video for Fall was directed by Nigerian-born British Video Director, Daps. The video has garnered over 202 views since it was published on YouTube about three years ago.   Fia The singer continued to ascend to greater heights in the music industry with the release of the smashing hit song, FIA. Davido released Fia on November 10, 2017. In its second verse, he addresses his arrest and Caroline Danjuma’s role in fuelling the rumour that he was involved in the death of his friend, Tagbo Umenike. The song revealed some of the personal struggles the singer was experiencing at the time without divulging too much detail. Fia was nominated for Best Pop Single and Song of the Year at The Headies 2018. The accompanying music video for Fia was directed by Clarence Peters and so far, the music video has over 83 million views.   Assurance Another classic love song from the ace singer, Assurance shows the romantic side of the singer and the music video features the mother of his son, Chioma Rowland. The chorus of the song is also dedicated to his baby mama, Chioma. Davido released Assurance on April 30, 2018, and he dedicated the track to Chioma. More so, he released the song to coincide with her 23rd birthday. In the same year, Davido won Best International Act at the 2018 BET Awards, becoming the first African artist to receive his award on the main stage. The song has been viewed about 69 million times on YouTube.   Fem Fem is one of the most liked songs from Davido’s latest project, A Better Time. The theme of the song literally bothers on the artiste telling his ‘haters’ to keep shut. The song gained more prominence as it became an unofficial anthem for #EndSARS protesters last October. The song was the first track released for the album and it has gained over 22 million views since it was released about seven months ago.   The Best Teaming up with his protégé, Mayorkun, the dynamic duo delivered one of the biggest songs from his album, A Better Time. It was certainly one of the most anticipated visuals from his album and the singer gave his best for the video. Shortly after the release of the album, the song made its way to various chart platforms and stayed on the number one spot for weeks. Directed by Dammy Twitch, the video for The Best has a Japanese Samurai theme with a cameo appearance from ace singer, Wande Coal, as his name was mentioned in the song several times. The video, which was uploaded on YouTube about three months ago, has about 6.6 million views.  La La For this melodious tune, Davido teams up with the fast-rising star, CKay. Also one of the songs from his recent album, the duo have given their fans a classic song to always vibe with. The video was released about a week ago and has about 2.8 million views on YouTube.   