The management of the Osun State University, Osogbo, has said a student of the institution, Busari Ayomide Kamali, whose death occurred on Sunday, refused medical help offered by the varsity and even wrote an undertaking to that effect. Kamali, a spill-over student in the Department of Economics Education, College of Education, UNIOSUN, was said to have been injured in an accident that occurred on Thursday, April 29, 2021, while returning to his hostel on a commercial motorcycle. A statement by the Public Relations Officer of the institution, Ademola Adesoji, on Monday, explained that after the accident, Kamali opted for treatment at a traditional medical clinic, adding that the university management after it was notified moved to evacuate him, but he allegedly rejected the offer. The statement read in part, “The university will like to place it on record that Busari Ayomide Kamali was a spill-over student of the Department of Economics Education in the College of Education of the university until the announcement of his untimely death. “He was rushed to a trado-medical clinic on that same day and the university’s management was notified of the incident on Tuesday, May 4, 2021. On that same Tuesday, the university management visited the trado-medical clinic and advised that the student should be moved to the university’s teaching hospital with immediate effect. “The student declined and said he would contact his family first and would get back to the management on their decision. On Wednesday, May 5, 2021, the university’s health officials visited with an ambulance with the hope that he would be moved to the teaching hospital that same day, but he insisted to be treated there. “After a series of persuasion without any positive result, he was later requested to write and sign an undertaking that he was the one that insisted that he should not be moved to an orthodox hospital to be treated, which he did. “Ever since, the university’s health centre and some college representatives have been visiting the clinic to check his recovery, but unfortunately on Sunday, May 16, he was reported dead and was moved to Ibadan to be buried.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com