The Secretary-General of the International Maritime Organisation, Kitach Lim, has called on world leaders to make the future safe for seafarers. In a video message special message, Lim identified the indispensability of seafarers among global economies. He also itemised challenges that were facing the maritime industry globally at the moment. He said, “Seafarers have always been at the heart of the world trade. Their work touches the lives of each and every one of us; whether it is the food on our tables, the medicine that keeps us healthy, the computers we are using for work and leisure or the vehicles that transport us in our daily lives; all these items are primarily transported by sea. “The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic created challenging working conditions including difficulties with port access, repatriation, crew changes, and the more, unfortunately, there are still too many seafarers that have not been able to leave ships for an extended period beyond their contracts. “And others have been unable to join ships in order to earn a living.” Lim also said, “Despite these difficulties, seafarers have gone beyond the call of duty, working tireless to keep global trade flowing. “I and all and our partners are doing our part to support seafarers and make sure that they are given the rights and protections of key workers which include priority fascination and ease of travel. “Last year, on Seafarers’ Day, the IMO asked the world to recognise seafarers are key workers. “Many countries have answered that call; however, the cruise change crisis is far from being rejoined. We all must keep seafarers in our hearts and continue to take action that will return seafaring to normal practices.” In preparation for IMO’s upcoming major event, Kim said, “Focus changes, so this year we are calling for a fair future for seafarers. Our 2021 day of the seafarers’ campaign builds on the progress we have made to support seafarers on pandemic related challenges. “It aims to draw global attention to other areas where fairness is important. This includes a safe and secure environment on shifts, visible working conditions, care treatment in all situations as well as respect for the rights of all, regardless of race, gender and religion. “I’m especially pleased that IMO will be amplifying the voices of seafarers themselves as they discuss what a fair future would look like to them under the hashtag fair future for seafarers. “See, fellas, we are listening and we will make sure you are heard if you are seafarers. I encourage you to participate in this discussion and share your vision for a fair future and if you are a part of the maritime industry or beneficiary of the services of seafarers, I ask you to listen to their words show your appreciation and take action to create a better world for seafarers, who do so much for all of us you.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com