The Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Oladayo Amao, has constituted a committee of serving and retired senior officers to conduct a safety audit of all Nigerian Air Force’ operational and engineering units. The development is coming less than a week after the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Ihrahim Attahiru, and 10 others died in a crash involving a military aircraft belonging to NAF near the Kaduna Airport. NAF spokesperson, Air Commodore, Edward Gabkwet, in a statement on Tuesday, said the committee would interact with unit operational and technical personnel for views, observations and contributions on safety measures. The statement titled, ‘NAF sets up committee on safety audit of its operational and engineering units,’ reads, “The Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Oladayo Amao, has constituted a committee of serving and retired senior officers to conduct a safety audit of all Nigerian Air Force operational and engineering units. “The committee is to, among other terms of reference, analyse safety reports from operational and engineering units, conduct safety evaluation of NAF units and recommend measures to enhance safety of operations in the units.” Amao added that the committee would be chaired by the Deputy Theatre Commander, Operation Hadin Kai, Air Vice Marshal Abraham Adole, and would submit its report by June 18. JNI demands probe of jet crash, past probe reports Meanwhile, the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Abubakar Sa’ad lll-led Jama’atu Nasril Islam, has asked the Federal Government to probe the crash. The JNI said the latest air accident involving the military aircraft was one too many, and as such needed to be investigated to unravel the circumstances surrounding it. The JNI, in a statement by its Secretary-General, Dr Khalid Abubakar-Aliyu, also asked the government to reveal reports of previous military plane crashes in the country, as well as implement recommendations of other investigative panels on military air accidents in the country. The statement, titled, ‘The death of the Chief of Army Staff and 10 others: Our condolences,’ was released in Kaduna on Tuesday. It read, “We would like to call on the Federal Government to look into the issue of these repeated air mishaps by constituting a formidable investigative panel of experts to unearth the recurring mystery of air mishaps involving senior servicemen; this is so averred because the nation is seriously losing human capital. This human capital isn’t just easy to come by, as it is consciously and determinedly acquired.” Masari condoles military Also, Governor Aminu Masari of Katsina State has condoled with the leadership of the Nigerian military over the death of Attahiru and 10 others. In a statement made available to journalists in Katsina on Tuesday by Masari’s Director General, Media, Abdu Malumfashi, the governor noted that “the crash, which ended the lives of gallant generals and other senior military officers who contributed greatly in addressing insecurity across the nation, is indeed a national tragedy”. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com