A panel has reportedly indicted the ousted management of the Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma, for “indiscriminate procurement of loans/overdraft” to the tune of N1,794,069,811. The panel, which was constituted by the state Governor, Godwin Obaseki, after agitations by staff unions and other stakeholders in the university community, was asked to investigate the operations of the university in terms of revenue generation, transparency, accountability, adherence to due process, mode of employment, promotions and sustainability. A statement on Tuesday by the Special Adviser to the Governor on Media, Crusoe Osagie, said the committee, which was set up in October 2020, was chaired by a Professor of Law at the University of Benin, Ikponmwosa Omoruyi. In the panel’s report submitted to the governor in March 2021, it was revealed that “indiscriminate procurement of loans/overdrafts of N1,794,069, 811.02 within the period under review is not sustainable.” The panel also said “indiscriminate procurement of vehicles through lease financing should be stopped, as payment of N133,138,324.39 only within five years as lease financing is not sustainable.” “There should be drastic reduction in the overhead cost, as the average at N1.2bn per year is on the high side and not sustainable,” the report said. New digital centre inaugurated A digital centre has been set up in Iworo, in the Badagry are of  Lagos State. A statement said the outfit named, OK Foundation Digital Centre, was an initiative of the Oniworo of Iworo land, Oba Oladele Kosoko, aimed towards empowering the people of Iworo and Badagry communities. Speaking at the opening ceremony, Kosoko said the centre was designed to equip youths and young adults with key digital skills to strengthen their entrepreneurial capabilities and prepare them for the labour market. He said, “The digital centre will also serve as a shared workspace for professionals and tech researchers as we provide in-house consulting for SMEs and start-ups. Our goals are to impact the lives of 1,000 youths and 500 adults in Badagry within the next 36 months.” The Director General of Badagry Chambers of Commerce, Mr Opeyemi Oke, described the gesture as noble and commendable. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com