Troops of the Nigerian Army have recovered AK-47 rifles and other ammunition while raiding bandits’ camp in Zamfara State. While the troops were able to kill key bandits’ figures including Yellow Mai-Bille, Sani Meli, Dan-Katsina, and Sama’ila Bakajin Bari during the operation from April 19 to May 3, 2021, the “main leader, known as Nasanda, narrowly escaped with fatal injuries”. In a statement titled, ‘Troops make gains in the north-west, decimated bandits’, leaders and dismantled several camps,’ the Director of the Army Public Relations, Brig. Gen. Mohammed Yerima said the first phase of the operation in Zamfara and other adjoining states lasted from March 23 to April 2, 2021. “The troops successfully neutralised 48 bandits while the bandits’ leader in the area, Jummo, sustained a gunshot wound in his leg. The troops rescued 18 kidnap victims from the bandits’ enclave. Moreover, eight AK-47 rifles and one G3 rifle, as well as one PKT and a Machine Gun were recovered from the Bandits,” the statement partly read. The second phase of the operation led the troops to bandits’ camps around Gabiya, Bozaya, and Mereri and the adjoining forests in Maru Local Government Area of Zamfara. The statement further read, “Meanwhile, in continuation with the second phase of Operation Tsare Mutane, troops sacked several other bandits’ camps around Gabiya, Bozaya,  and Mereri and the adjoining forests in Maru LGA of Zamfara State from 19 April to 3 May 2021. “The areas which were heavily infested by bandits were successfully cleared by the highly spirited troops. Key bandits’ leaders including Yellow Mai-Bille, Sani Meli, Dan-Katsina and Sama’ila Bakajin Bari were neutralised in the process while the main leader Nasanda narrowly escaped with fatal injuries. “Equally neutralised in the operation was one Isan Heshi who is a close ally of a notorious bandit called Nagala. Isan Heshi was the second in command to Heshi before he joined Nagala following Heshi’s death in an earlier operation. “Items recovered in the second phase of Operation Tsare Mutane include 4,600 rounds of ammunition, two AK-103 rifles, eight AK-47 magazines, 1,628 rounds of AK-47 ammunition, fifty-four rounds of PKM as well as one motorcycle and five Techno mobile phones. “The COAS has congratulated the GOC and troops of 8 Division for the gains made so far and urged them to sustain their offensive operations until Zamfara and neighbouring States are stabilised. He further assured the GOC of his continuous support in achieving the overall objective of keeping the North West and the entire country free of terrorism, banditry and other violent crimes.”