The Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Akin Abayomi, has raised the alarm that 119 passengers from high-risk countries have refused to be isolated after coming back into the country. Abayomi, in a statement on Sunday appealed to the families of those who refused to be isolated to return them for testing. He said, “Since the commencement of the new guidelines and the ban on non-Nigerians travelling from three countries (India, Brazil and Turkey) into Nigeria, Lagos State has recorded 568 in-bound passengers, who have been permitted to enter Nigeria from these three countries. We have isolated 433 passengers in our various accredited hotels and facilities; 262 are in isolation and 154 passengers have been discharged with a negative COVID-19 test. Nine have tested positive to COVID-19 and successfully isolated to prevent community transmission. Of the remaining 135 passengers, 119 have refused isolation and 16 are unaccounted for. “The families of those that have refused to be isolated should appeal to their loved ones to return for testing and isolation.” The Commissioner added that all passengers that had been confirmed absconders would have their passports deactivated for a minimum of one year if Nigerian; and if foreign, would have their resident permits cancelled and deported as stated by the Presidential Steering Committee on COVID-19. Abayomi also disclosed the state government’s intention to partner the private sector and Federal Government in ramping up vaccination in the state. “On May 28, 2021, we commenced the administration of the second dose of the Oxford-AstraZeneca COVID vaccine. Given the requirement for achieving herd immunity, Lagos State still needs to vaccinate about 14 million people to reach this target. “Therefore, the government is considering several channels, including discussions with the Federal Government and the private sector, to ramp up the vaccination numbers,” he said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com