First City Monument Bank has said that it partnered with TulsiChanrai Foundation of India to carry out free eye surgeries, correctional testing services and provided glasses to over 300,000 Nigerians under the bank’s corporate social responsibility programme, tagged ‘Priceless gift of sight’. It said in a statement on Wednesday that out of this number, the sight of almost 17,000 visually impaired Nigerians had been restored through surgeries, while the rest underwent tests to correct various eye defects and also received glasses. The statement said, “The yearly intervention, which started in 2009, is designed to combat cataracts and other eye defects that could lead to blindness among underprivileged adults and children across various communities in Nigeria. “FCMB has sustained this programme for 13 consecutive years (2009 till date) by offering free testing, surgeries and glasses in partnership with TCF in Kebbi, Cross River, Imo, Abuja, Katsina and Adamawa.” The Group Head, Corporate Affairs of FCMB, Mr Diran Olojo, explained that the programme was a key aspect of the bank’s CSR initiatives. He said, “The importance of sight to the well-being of an individual and nation cannot be under-estimated. We are proud to sustain the execution of this initiative with TulsiChanrai Foundation, because it has continued to positively touch and transform the lives of thousands of people, homes, businesses and the entire society. “There is no gift in the world better than giving sight to the visually impaired. We believe that all communities in which we operate should benefit from our presence through our contribution to their sustainable development. “We hope to extend this programme to more communities and states soon.” Also speaking on the initiative, the Chief Operating Officer of TulsiChanrai Foundation, Mr Shravan Kasam, said, FCMB had been a long-standing partner with TCF under the mission for vision programme across Nigeria. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com