INSECURITY in Nigeria is exposing the collective shortcomings of the 36 state governors in curtailing criminal activities in their domains. Although government at the sub-national tier is closer to the people, the overreliance of governors on the Federal Government to curb the nationwide anarchy seems overly misplaced. Therefore, it is imperative for the governors to confront the monster threatening the fabric of Nigeria’s corporate existence individually and collectively. Essentially, security starts at the grassroots. But for far too long, the helpless communities have fawned over the governors, winked at their flaws, and excused their gross incompetence in the face of rising insecurity. In the first quarter of 2021, 393 and 926 persons were killed and kidnapped respectively by marauding bandits in Kaduna State. Even with the military participating in internal security operations in 34 states, 741 Nigerians were killed and over 1,000 others kidnapped in Q1 2021. The principal claim of the governors is that they are handicapped by the 1999 Constitution that ties security to the Federal Government. That is a blatantly lame excuse because the criminals are not waiting for that bland pretext. These days, every state in Nigeria is under the siege of terrorism, banditry, kidnapping-for-ransom, and ritual killings. Openly, state institutions are under attack from non-state actors. Although recently governors in the South have met twice in one week, the impression of lethargy and helplessness persists. Over time, they have abandoned security to the centre by toeing party lines or for political correctness. Take the issue of herdsmen menace; all the governors do is make pronouncements. Instead, they should strongly enforce the ban on open grazing. But it is not totally true that the governors have no role to play in national security. Some provisions of the 1999 Constitution assign certain roles to them, which they conveniently ignore. In the Third Schedule, sections 27 and 28 make each governor an automatic member of the Nigeria Police Council. Section 28 gives the NPC the power of “general supervision of the Nigeria Police Force,” and “advising the President on the appointment of the Inspector-General of Police.” Governors have however ceded all these roles to the President for inexplicable reasons, but this is doing much damage to the system. Conspicuously, governors celebrate the purchase of vehicles for the federal security agencies operating in their states. It is not enough. Although he was similarly hampered by the 1999 Constitution, a former governor of Lagos State, Babatunde Fashola, stood out during his eight-year tenure. Fashola effectively beefed-up security in the state using the federal security agents; he equipped and motivated them in a hands-on approach for the huge task of securing the state. Under his successors, insecurity has moved north again. In response to the outcry of citizens, governors in the South-West established Operation Amotekun in 2020. An appropriate step, it has taken off in fits and starts. Ogun, one of the states there, did not establish its own Amotekun corps until this year. By that time, armed herders had already seized control of nooks and crannies of the state. In Benue State, the Governor, Samuel Ortom responded with an anti-open grazing law. After a lull, the killings by armed Fulani herders have resurfaced. During the final week of Ramadan, Boko Haram insurgents invaded parts of Maiduguri, the Borno State capital. In Rivers, 21 soldiers, police, Customs and Civil Defence officers have lost their lives to deadly attacks by gunmen in the past three weeks. In other parts of the South-South, prisons, police stations and INEC offices have suffered similar attacks. Police stations are under ceaseless assault in Imo, Abia, Enugu, Ebonyi and Anambra and Akwa Ibom states. With the federal and the states failing in government’s primary assignment of protecting lives and property, criminal Fulani herdsmen are kidnapping for ransom in the South-West. This newspaper reported that in one week this month, the families of kidnapping victims paid a combined ransom of N36 million to their captors in Ogun State. A video trending on the social media in which criminals openly attacked motorists in gridlock in the Mile 12 area shows that insecurity is going out of control in Lagos. Taking on the might of the Nigerian state, Boko Haram Islamists are pulverising military formations and capturing military equipment and territories again in the North-East, after a lull. The Islamists have once more hoisted their flag in parts of Yobe State. This makes road trips and farming hazardous. Boko Haram has also hoisted its flag in 50 villages in two LGAs in Niger State. So, it is a mirage to wait for the Federal Government, which recently, through its Information Minister, Lai Mohammed, accused the state governors of not prosecuting terrorists and kidnappers arrested by the federal security forces. This is a sticky point, which the governors must warm up to. First, governors should deploy legal options. Each state should make and review its laws to quicken the prosecution of criminal suspects in their states. When people are arrested with arms or as suspects, they should not be sent back to their states of origin without first being prosecuted. That would be some deterrent. For now, it is activists and the civil society that are campaigning for the devolution of power. It should not be so. While awaiting constitutional amendment, governors should devise local solutions, including establishing, funding, and equipping local forces like the Amotekun and the South-East’s Ebube Agu. Their security votes should be targeted at procuring arms and forensic tools to map and aid crime control. Technology is useful in crime control. As of November 2020, the number of CCTV cameras in the United Kingdom was 5.2 million, aiding the surveillance activities of the security agencies. A governor has much to gain from implementing similar measures and other technology solutions. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com