Mrs Hafsat Abiola-Costello, a daughter of the late business mogul, Chief MKO Abiola, has called on South-West women to fight for the country like female icons from the region, including the late Mrs Funmilayo Ransome-Kuti, Mrs HID Awolowo and Mrs Kudirat Abiola. Abiola-Costello, who was the guest speaker at the maiden conference of the South-West Women Arise for Nigeria held in Lagos State on Friday, said it was time for South-West women to make their voices heard to restore peace in the country. She said, “We Yoruba women come from greatness – from Funmilayo Ransome-Kuti to Mama Awolowo to my own mum, Hajia Kudirat Abiola. So many women have stood and fought for Nigeria from the South-West to make Nigeria what it is today. “The South-West women should stand again and fight for the future of our country so that this country can be the China of Africa. We have that possibility and by our own efforts today, we will create that future. “This is the time for us as women to make our voices heard on behalf of peace. It’s not to say everything that is going on in Nigeria is perfect. It is just to say that when we do not exacerbate conflict in Nigeria, we have a better chance to actually solve the problems facing it, so that our children will have a future and they are not be in situations where we have to bury them.” The Co-convener, SWWAFON, Mrs Bolanle Idowu, in her remarks, stated that the South-West women were not in support of the country’s division, adding that the women should participate in nation-building. She said, “For 2023, we cannot divide. It’s not in the interest of Nigerians. SWWAFON is not a political party; we are not affiliated to any political party. We have been praying; we now want to add action to it. We are going to come up with a roadmap of what we are doing. “We are looking into the electoral process coming up in 2023 and we are going to have a voice in it. We are coming up with a communique on the (security) crisis in the country and economy. In the nation at present, we are going to look at the antecedents of those with a majority of women in their cabinets. “Those are the people to look at for now. Those are the people in whose footsteps we can follow. We are talking about coming up and taking action in 2023. The majority of women should come up and lend their voices to it.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com