An unidentified man, who disguised and sneaked into a female hostel of the Ignatius Ajuru University of Education, Port Harcourt, Rivers State, was caught and stripped by students on Monday. It was gathered that the man had dressed like a female student and stealthily walked into the hostel in an attempt to see a female friend, who had been avoiding him. According to a source, the man went there to plead with his female friend, who allegedly seized his mobile phone when she visited him outside the campus due to his inability to fulfil promises made to her. “He disguised like a young female student to gain access to the hostel of his female friend, who had been avoiding him after she took his phone. But luck ran out on him when his movement aroused suspicion of some of the students, who felt that something was wrong with his dressing. They mobilised, held the man and stripped him,” the source stated. Upon the discovery, the ladies raised the alarm, which attracted their male counterparts, who descended on the man, who could have been lynched but for the intervention of the security personnel on the campus. The President of the Students’ Union Government in the institution, Christian Amadi, who confirmed the incident, said the man claimed that he was not a student of the institution. “Yes, this happened around 10pm yesterday (Monday). Before we got to the place, the school security personnel had already intervened and took him into custody. The man claimed that he was not a student; I think the security personnel are still investigating the matter,” Amadi stated. Asked if the man was beaten, the SUG president said the students might have done that in self defence, but expressed happiness that the man had been taken into custody. When contacted on the issue, the Public Relations Officer of the university, Ngozi Okiridu, said in a short message to our correspondent, “The police are handling the matter.” The management of the institution had barred inter sex visits to hostels after three students allegedly gang-raped a female student in one of the men’s hostels last year, which led to the indefinite suspension of academic activities by the school.    ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com