Can you tell us about your football career? I played football in Nigeria for years and I made my mark at defunct ACB FC in Lagos, from 1975. I was the captain of ACB from 1983 until I retired from football in 1984. After I retired in 1984, I returned to the office because then, every footballer with the bank belonged to a department. I later oversaw the welfare of the club. I had left active football and already an official of the club before the likes of Henry Nwosu came in. Augustine Eguavoen, Ikponmwosa Omoregie and Friday Elaho came and also blossomed at ACB. How did you veer into coaching? My journey into coaching was not sudden because I had developed interest in coaching from my active days in the game. I started out as coach/player during the twilight of my career. After I finally disengaged from ACB, I returned to Benin Republic and started coaching Requiems FC in 1988, with acquired knowledge from my playing experience. I then got coaching certificates up to CAF Licence C, years back in Benin Republic. How did you meet late Stephen who you assisted when he was coach of Togo, Mali and Nigeria? Let me use this opportunity to set the records straight in honour of late Keshi. A lot of people don’t know that I was actually his senior at ACB in Lagos. That was where we struck a strong bond, when he joined the club in 1979, before he left for NNB of Benin, in 1980. His football sojourn to Ivory Coast and later Belgium remains the watershed of Nigerian players at home turning professional footballers. We re-established contact, which we maintained throughout his professional football career till his death. Our path in coaching crossed when he landed the Togo national team job. Before his arrival, I was already in Togo, handling a club in the northern part of the country. One eventful evening, my phone rang. When I inquired who was on the other end, the person put me in more suspense, calling me by my nickname, ‘Apankeje’ back then at ACB. I was surprised that someone in Togo, could call me this nickname. Then he told me he was the one. After exchanging pleasantries and banters, he broke the news that he had been appointed coach of the Togolese national team. Keshi invited me to work with him on his new job. Let me state here that because of the good job I was doing with the Togolese club I was coaching, no one objected to the invitation extended to me by Keshi. In all modesty, the results are there, everywhere we worked together. We had a good outing at Egypt 2006 African Cup of Nations. We qualified Togo for their first appearance at the World Cup in 2006 and left an appreciable footprint in Mali. Nigeria’s third victory at the 2013 African Cup of Nations with the injection of home-based players in the Super Eagles, was an icing on our collaboration and efficient combination with nostalgia. Why did you take NNL side Sokoto United job after working at the highest level of coaching? I know my worth and this is one of the reasons I am here with Sokoto United. I’m sure that my handwork will speak volumes. I’m not a coach that begs for a job or who, out of desperation, disparages a colleague to take over his job. I once coached a smaller team in Akwa Ibom and served as assistant coach to late Solomon Ogbeide at Lobi Stars. When this Sokoto United offer came, I grabbed it with both hands to at least prove a point. What point are you out to prove at Sokoto United? Well, I’m trying to see how I can elevate the club to a position they haven’t been before, and hopefully, we will not derail from our aspiration. We are on it, but out of my two-year contract with the club, COVID-19 took the greater part of the first year. Eagles coach Gernot Rohr has succumbed to pressure, by handing invitation to players in the domestic league. Does the Franco-German’s earlier stance on players in the NPFL a true reflection of their worth? Hate or like Keshi, he was a product of the local league and he brought value to the local league. Our philosophy is to give every player opportunity to prove themselves. It is on record that Keshi gave opportunity to someone in NYSC camp to have a trial with the national team. Is Sunday Mba, who scored Nigeria’s winning goal in the final of the 2013 African Cup of Nations, not a product of the local league? The Togolese national teams at the Egypt 2006 AFCON and the 2006 World Cup, were dominated by players from the local league. During our days in the Super Eagles, before the arrival of invited pverseas-based players to camp, it was my duty, alongside Daniel Amokachi and Ike Shorunmu, to assemble and work on the domestic players, but today, that has changed. Keshi’s achievement with the Togolese national team is legendary. Why was he relieved of his job unceremoniously by the Togolese FA? Honestly, the Togolese appreciate our efforts and the pedestal we took the national team to, but as an insider, I saw what happened as part of our learning process in football administration in Africa. Ego problem and interference dot all spheres of our lives in Africa. Keshi was a strict person who detested interference in his job. That was the major problem we had in Togo because after qualifying the country for the World c6up, several issues came up. It was unfortunate that former President of Togo, Gnassingbe Eyadema, was not alive. If he was, Keshi, would not have been sacked. The Eyadema’s son, who was then Togo Football Federation president, capitalised on the demise of his father and sacked the Keshi-led technical crew. But Keshi was alleged to have lost out in a power play with some influential players in the Togo national team… (Cuts in) That is not true. Majority of the players, like I said earlier, were discovered by Keshi from the domestic league and there is no way they could have stabbed Keshi on the back with such ingratitude. I am an insider, and I know there were personal problems between the federation’s president and Keshi. If the late Eyadema was alive, the son wouldn’t have committed that costly mistake, which was widely condemned by the people of Togo. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com