Paris Saint-Germain forward, Neymar Junior, has extended his contract with the French club until June 30, 2025. The announcement was made by PSG on Saturday, with the club’s Chairman and CEO, Nasser Al-Khelaïfi, saying, “I am proud that Neymar Jr has reaffirmed his long-term commitment to the PSG family through to 2025, and will continue to delight fans. We are very happy to see him continue as part of our project and to be alongside us for many years to come.” According to Milan-based football transfer journalist, Fabrizio Romano, Neymar’s contract comprises a 30 million Euro paycheck per season after tax reduction, and a hefty bonus in the event that PSG wins the Champions League. “Salary around €30m/season after taxes + add ons. Huge bonus’ in case PSG will win the Champions League,” said Romano. Neymar’s previous contract was to expire at the end of the 2021/22 season, and there had been rumours linking the Brazilian to a return to FC Barcelona and a desire to reconnect with former Barça teammate, Lionel Messi, at the Camp Nou. Speaking on his new contract, Neymar said, “I’m really pleased to continue my adventure at Paris Saint-Germain. I’m very happy in Paris, and proud to be part of this squad, to work with these players, a great coach and to be part of the history of this club. These are things that make me believe even more in this great project. I have grown as a person here, as a human being and as a player, too. So I am very happy to extend my contract and I hope to win many more trophies here.” Since joining the Parisian side in 2017, Neymar has had 112 match appearances, 51 assists, and scored 85 goals for the club, all whilst enduring a spell of injuries. He was part of the PSG team that reached the club’s first-ever Champions League final played in Lisbon in 2020, losing 1-0 to Hansi Flick’s Bayern Munich side. On Tuesday, Neymar likewise suffered elimination from the Champions League after Pep Guardiola’s Manchester City managed a 4-1 aggregate semi-final victory.