What is your educational background? I hold a Bachelor’s degree in Accounting. I am also a certified digital marketer with various professional bodies such as Coursera and Udemy. Do you have any corporate work experience? I had been an entrepreneur, even while I was still seeking admission into the university. However, I found my passion for media while I was in my second year in the university, and ever since, I have been a full-time media entrepreneur. What is your business about? It is a Christian media and entertainment agency whose primary objective is promoting the Gospel. We promote Christian creatives and content creators such as Gospel music artistes, actors and ministers. One of our goals is helping Christian creatives develop themselves to become better at what they have been called to do. What motivated you to start your own business? About seven years ago, I identified a problem in the Christian entertainment industry and decided to provide a solution. This birthed the brand on October 14, 2014, to be precise. What are your most significant accomplishments as a media entrepreneur? Amidst all other achievements, I have been opportune to work with some major brands in the entertainment industry. I have also been invited as a keynote speaker and facilitator at the Ogun Social Media Summit. I also recently authored and published a book titled, ‘The Digital Church’. What are the major challenges you have faced in the course of doing business? One of the major challenges I faced while building my brand was putting together a team. It was hard getting people to believe in the brand. This same narrative also came into play in terms of finding investors and financing the business. What is the most influential factor in your business’ success? Firstly, I will say the business success is championed by God and seconded by my passion for the Christian entertainment industry. If you had one piece of advice for someone just starting a business, what would it be? Entrepreneurs need to stay focused and trust the process. It’s never going to be an overnight success but a gradual and continuous growth. What do you consider to be your greatest strength? I am a great listener. What steps did you take to grow your business? I attended several seminars and workshops .I also embraced consistency and kept learning and evolving. What do you think the future holds for entrepreneurship in Nigeria? Recent events have shown the importance of entrepreneurship, for example the COVID-19 pandemic which caused a shut down in several sectors because of the restrictions placed on physical gatherings. You will agree with me that this unprecedented outbreak led more youths to venture into entrepreneurial activities. This has, in turn, caused an increase in small and medium scale enterprises. So yes, there is a lot of hope for entrepreneurship. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com