The Anchor University, Lagos’ project, Piezo-electric Generator, has emerged one of the finalists in the Nigerian Science and Technology Innovative Challenge 2020. A statement by the school explained that the Piezo-electric Generator was a power generating solution that depended on pressure rather than fuel to function. The competition which was organised by the Nigerian Content and Development Management Board also had five other universities who got to the final stage at the regional contest which was held recently, at Covenant University, Ota. It stated that two students who represented Anchor University at the competition were John Ayeleso and Ruth Sunday, adding that both of them were 300 level students of Physic Electronics and Geophysics respectively. According to AUL team, the machine is designed to be a fuel-less, noiseless and a green energy generator that will run as long as the pressure source is consistent. The statement read, “As it stands, Anchor University will be contesting against the other five regional winners for the final stage where three institutions will emerge as winners and one of them crowned as the national champion. The other five institutions still in the contest are, University of Jos, Federal University of Agriculture, Makurdi; Cross River University of Technology; Federal University of Technology, Owerri; and Tai Solarin University of Education.” The competition, which was managed by Enactus Nigeria, was designed to challenge students of accredited Nigerian tertiary institutions to apply science, technology and innovation to find home-grown solutions to everyday problems across all sectors of the economy. Enactus said a total of 511 applications were received from 129 institutions across the country. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com