The Courier and Logistics Regulatory Department of the Nigerian Postal Service has begun clamping down on unlicenced courier operators. The department said at a press briefing on Thursday that it clamped down on eight illegal operators within the week. The CLRD General Manager, Gideon Shonde, said, “In our bid to sanitise the industry, we have gone out with the enforcement team, which includes the gentlemen of the press, to continue in our campaign against illegal courier and logistics operators. “These illegal operators are short-changing legal operators. They are supposed to charge commercial service rates. “It will interest you to know that they even charge lesser than social service rates. If you check their accounting books, they have more clientele than those who are licensed. Those who are licensed are crying for help.” The CLRD is the arm of NIPOST regulates courier and logistics operations within the nation. The department is empowered by Section 62 of the Nigerian Postal Service Act Cap N 127, LFN 2004, Shonde said. In a 6th May 2020 circular (NIP/COO/HO/16/23/VOL 1), NIPOST suspended the processing of licences to discuss with stakeholders on contentious issues in the hope of reaching an amicable resolution. In January, 2021, the suspension was lifted and the CLRD began sensitising operators about the benefits and process of licensing. Two of the operators shut down on Thursday claimed ignorance of the licensing regulation. One of them showed paper evidence of starting the process and stopping midway. According to the CLRD, there are over 260 licensed logistics operators in the nation. The department disclosed that over time, it had revoked about 200 licences. According to the department, it costs N3m to get a national licence, N2m to get a regional licence, and N250,000 to get an SME licence. The department said it had profiled about 300 unlicenced courier operators. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com