The National Agricultural Seeds Advocacy Group has called on the President to assent to the Plant Variety Protection bill in order to spur private investment in the agricultural sector. The group made this known in a virtual meeting that included stakeholders from the Sustainable Entrepreneurship and Economic Development Initiative, NASAG, farmers and other stakeholders. Speaking through its National Coordinator, Celestine Okeke, the group worried that the agricultural sector was moving at a slow pace due to the PVP not being signed into law. The coordinator highlighted several problems plaguing the seed sector including lack of timely access to quality seeds, poorly funded research institutes and a dearth of quality research scientists. He advocated more research and development activities in the sector which would only be possible with the signing of the bill. Okeke decried the lack of private investment in the seed sector, noting that just as writers and artists ha intellectual property rights protecting them, plant breeders should be afforded the same rights to protect proprietary innovations designed to provide drought-resistant seeds, improve seed yield and ultimately, incentivise investors. “Plant breeders that have invested huge resources in developing plant varieties have often had the same varieties duplicated for commercial purposes without their consent, leaving the original breeders with little or no value for their research breakthroughs. “If writers have laws protecting their written text, artists have laws protecting their intellectual properties and authors have laws protecting their publications, how much more for plant breeders who spend upwards of 12 months researching on plant varieties”, Okeke said. The Deputy Coordinator, NASAG, Rose Gyar, speaking on the importance of the bill, said that agriculture in Nigeria should be seen not just as a way of life but as a business and accorded the gravitas one would give to a business endeavour. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com