What was it like the day you escaped from Boko Haram terrorists? It was very scary. My family and other families of the girls who were taken were outside the night I came back after having jumped down from the Boko Haram truck. The entire village of Chibok and the town of Wutanku were crying. Losing over 200 girls all in one night was not what anyone of them envisioned.  For weeks, we spent the night in the bush or nearby farmlands instead of our homes for fear of another attack by the terrorist group. We were all in a panic mood. Did going to the United States to study relieve you of the trauma from that experience? It was not easy for me at all. I had nightmares which scared me, and most times, interrupted my sleep for more than a year after I moved to the US. It did not help my healing process. But I am thankful to the people in the States who supported me emotionally and gave me all the love they could offer. What was the experience like for you moving to the United States having spent all your life in Nigeria? It was a good experience. I got to the US through the help of some Christians. A family which I would not like to name for security reasons accommodated me while I waited to get my passport and visa processed. They were so helpful. Jubilee Campaign had a huge hand in making sure that my friend, Lydia Pogu, who also escaped, and I got to the US safely. When we got to the US, other Christians who had heard our stories were always willing to help in all ways possible. A few churches donated towards our plans for a better life and other things. What was your experience schooling in the US? I was on a scholarship and I was also working. I had an amazing boss, who made sure the best in me manifested. On my graduation, she baked me and Lydia a cake and we were so happy and felt loved. When you were told you were going to the US, what was your reaction? Honestly, I said no. I told them I was not interested. The Boko Haram terrorists warned every one of us that if we wanted to be alive, we must quit school, else they would find us and kill us, no matter where we ran to. I was so scared. The voice kept echoing in my head, telling me I was going to die. But I told myself that with God by my side, no stupid voice in my head had the right to crush my dreams. I am now a university graduate despite being told in the past that I was not smart enough. The greatest revenge is success. You studied Social Works. What informed that choice? I chose to study Social Work because I love people and I love to work with individuals and families who are facing challenges such as abusive relationships, loss of homes due to terrorism, poverty, in their lives. My aim is to assist them get their needs met and make sure they live healthy social lives. I love to provide resources for those who can’t defend themselves. It is especially important that those who are vulnerable are taken care of by those who are privileged or in power. No one should be abandoned or left to suffer so much just to make ends meet. I want to be someone who fights against injustice and preserve the rights of the poor. What advice do you have for young girls going through the same things you had to go through before help came your way? Ladies, you have the power to change the world. Giving up or doubting yourself is not an option. God created each of you for a purpose. If I had given up the night I was kidnapped, then I would not have lived to become what God had kept in store for me. Even during danger and uncertainty, God has your back and will always make a way where there seems to be no way. Don’t allow anything stand in your way. You are brave, strong, beautiful and smart. You can be whatever you wish to be. What are your plans for the future? I plan to be the voice of the voiceless and build my own agency where I will be helping those in need such as homeless people and persecuted Christians. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com