The acting Director-General, National Directorate of Employment, Mallam Nuhu Fikpo, has said that sustainable agriculture programme is in line with the Federal Government’s policy on agriculture for employment generation and wealth creation. A statement titled ‘NDE Ogun trains youths in sustainable agricultural development scheme’ said he spoke during the recent inauguration ceremony of the 2021 Sustainable Agricultural Development Training Scheme. The acting director-general who was represented by the NDE Ogun State Coordinator, Bakare, Tajudeen, described sustainable agriculture as  production and distribution system that sought to provide more profitable income, promote environmental stewardship and enhance quality of life for farm families and communities. According to the acting director-general, participants at the training programme were drawn from all sectors of the communities, Local Government Areas and all the senatorial districts. A total of 100 participants had been recruited in all the 20 Local Government Areas of Ogun State, it stated. It said the training curriculum had been structured to include major areas of modern agricultural production (crop farming and livestock production), marketing and agripreneurial training. It said that the duration of the training programme was three months, including two weeks exclusively for theoretical/classroom training in life skills lectures, business plan writing, crop production and livestock; while the remaining period would be for practical skills acquisition on the adaptive farm. According to Bakare, resource persons had been recruited to engage the participants in the first stage of the training with due guidance in the second stage of the training. Towards the end of the training exercise, linkages would be established with financial institutions and other sources of funds for resettlement of graduates of the scheme, the statement added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com