The President of the Association of Nigeria Theatre Practitioners, Adewale Elesho, has made a statement concerning Baba Ijesha’s case of sexual assault and child molestation. In a video, the veteran actor begged the girl’s foster mother, Princess, to have mercy on Baba Ijesha. He said, “I am Adewale Elesho, the President of the Association of Nigeria Theatre Practitioners. I thank all our sympathisers who have reached out to me about Baba Ijesha’s case. I want to use this opportunity to beg Princess to temper justice with mercy because things are really getting out of hands. She should please think about the years of friendship between her and Baba Ijesha and not allow this fight bring up another issue. “I received a call last night when I was about to sleep and the caller asked me why I have not said anything about the case as the president of ANTP. The caller further asked me if Baba Ijesha is not a member of my association. More so, the caller said even if Baba Ijesha is not in my association, he is also my colleague.” Still interceding on behalf of the embattled actor, Elesho called on the Commissioner of Police to ensure a thorough investigation of the case. He also urged the Governor of Lagos State, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, to help his distressed colleague. “I plead with you Princess, have mercy on Baba Ijesha. Remember that he is also you colleague. No one knows tomorrow except God. May God not let us face an encounter that is beyond our strength. Only God knows the true story in this situation. However, Princess should forgive him. The parent of the children will reap the fruit of their labour. “I urge the Commissioner of Police in Lagos State to please ensure that the case is properly handled. I also call on the Lagos State governor, Babajide Sanwo-Olu; Baba Ijesha and I are entertainers, and during election, entertainers help in campaigning for politicians. Please help. “In our industry, it is not easy to make a name; but look at the way Baba Ijesha has spoilt his reputation. I am begging Princess to forgive Baba Ijesha. Before making this video, I consulted the leaders in our Association and they gave permission to proceed to talk. Please, let us all forgive Baba Ijesha,” Elesho said.