The Celestial Church of Christ has directed its pastor-in-council to come up with a policy document to curb alien practices that have been introduced into the tenets and doctrines of the church to safeguard its divine culture. The directive was in reaction to the death of a Dubai-based socialite, Kayode Badru, who suffered burns at the Imole Parish of the CCC in the Alagbado area of Lagos State. READ ALSO: Stop cursing your candidate’s opponents, ex-PDP chair tells Fayose It was gathered that Badru flew into the country to celebrate the graduation of the 40 students he sponsored to the Academic for Innovative Art and Technology. Our correspondent learnt that after the event, Badru went to the church on Wednesday, May 5, 2021, for a programme and knelt for prayers with lighted candles and seven elders of the church surrounding him. PUNCH Metro gathered that the pastor in charge of the parish, Felix Alebiosu, allegedly sprayed perfume on the victim, who was holding a lighted candle, and this led to an inferno that severely burnt him. It was learnt that Badru was rushed to a hospital in Gbagada, where he died. A statement signed by one Stephen Adeniyi of the administrative office of the church blamed the incident on the abuse of spiritual perfumes. The statement read in part, “Due to the incessant abuse of spiritual perfumes within the church, His Eminence has found it imperative to state for record purposes and correction that henceforth, spiritual perfumes intended to be sprayed, sprinkled, or poured with a lighted candle should be diluted with water. “The spraying or pouring of undiluted spiritual perfumes in their volatile state with a lighted candle is an imported culture not originally part of the tenets of the Celestial Church of Christ. The laid down usage of spiritual perfume within the spheres of a lighted candle by the pastor founder, Saint S. B. J. Oshoffa, is by mixing it with water. It is high time we retraced our steps for a greater Celestial Church of Christ. “We are all advised to adhere to this directive; any parish or member that goes against this directive will be solely responsible for the resultant effect. The pastor has also directed the pastor-in-council to come up with a policy document to curb alien practices that have been introduced into the tenets and doctrines of the church to safeguard the church’s divine culture as instructed by the spirit of God through the pastor founder.” Our correspondent learnt that the pastor in charge of the parish and two of the church elders have been arrested. When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Olumuyiwa Adejobi, said he would find out about the incident and get back to our correspondent, but had yet to do so as of the time of filing this report. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com