The Peoples Democratic Party and other stakeholders across the country have demanded a probe into the recent crashes of military planes, following the death of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, and 10 other military officers near the Kaduna International Airport on Friday. The Nigerian Army, on Friday, confirmed the death of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, and 10 others, in an ill-fated Nigerian Air Force plane near Kaduna International Airport on Friday. The mishap followed two others. On March 31, an NAF Alpha jet went missing with two officers on board. The Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Oladayo Amao, stated that there were ongoing efforts to locate the crashed aircraft and both pilots. Also, in February, an Air Force plane crashed in Abuja killing seven. The party, in a statement by the National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, titled ‘Plane Crash: PDP Mourns COAS, Others…Demands Probe into Military Plane,’ mourned the officers, saying the deceased were heroes. The statement read, “Our party commiserates with the military high command, the families of Lt.-Gen. Attahiru and the other officers and men who have paid the supreme price for the security of our nation and prays God to give them the fortitude to bear the loss. “The PDP, however, demands an extensive inquest into this military plane crash as well as the last two in which the lives of officers were lost. The party urges Nigerians to be alert and continue to pray for our fighting men and women, who are risking their lives at the front to secure our nation.” Also, Governor David Umahi of Ebonyi State, in a statement issued by his Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Francis Nwaze, on Saturday, described the incident as a national calamity. It read, “We are saddened by the unhealthy news of the air crash leading to the death of Nigeria’s Chief of Army Staff and other crew members onboard on Friday. “The development is not only shocking but also a national disaster of monumental and colossal loss. While we urge the Federal Government to immediately commence investigation into the matter, we pray God to grant the departed rest in his bosom.” The House Minority Leader, Ndudi Elumelu, in a statement, said the minority caucus was shocked by the tragic incident and demanded a thorough investigation of the circumstances leading to the deaths. Similarly, a former President of the Trade Union Congress, Mr Peter Esele, called on the National Assembly to probe the causes of recent military plane crashes in the country. Esele, in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria, on Saturday, noted that Friday’s military plane crash, which was the third this year, brought the death toll to 20. “It’s unfortunate that the COAS, the number one soldier in the country, was being flown in an aircraft that may not have been properly maintained. Recall that the Vice President of the country some time ago was involved in a helicopter crash, but luckily, he survived it. But no commission was set up to ascertain the reason for these increasing crashes with the aim of mitigating future occurrences,” he noted Esele said although the military planned to probe the crash, “there should be a public probe by the National Assembly to find out what is really happening. It’s a dereliction of duty for Nigerians not to know the cause or causes of the recent increasing military plane crashes.” In the same vein, a member of the House of Representatives representing Ajeromi/Ifelodun Federal Constituency, Mr Taiwo Kolawole, has pleaded with the Federal Government to overhaul the country’s aircraft to curb the recurrent crashes. Kolawole, in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria on Saturday, said, “It’s an unfortunate incident and we condole with the family of the COAS and other victim’s families, may God give them the fortitude to bear the loss. The Baale of Karaole in the New Oko-Oba area of the state, Chief Olayinka George, said, “We need to be very careful. The government should be more proactive in solving these recurrent plane crashes involving our soldiers. The government should provide enough protections for our soldiers in active services to encourage them to tackle the current security challenges facing the country. “Nigeria will be great, I am sure of that, but the government needs to do the needful to ensure the safety of the security personnel and the entire citizens.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com