Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong, says Nigerians will overcome the current challenges facing the nation when they pray and also work with resolve to remove all obstacles to peaceful coexistence, under development and productivity. Governor Lalong was speaking on Friday during the monthly prayer and fasting session held at the Government House Chapel, Rayfield, Jos the state capital. Lalong who acknowledged that Nigeria is facing challenges of insecurity, unemployment, illiteracy among others, said there is no need to despair because tough times do not last forever. He said his experience as Governor of Plateau State in the past six years has proved that it is possible to turn around a bad situation into a better one when there is purposeful leadership that mobilises people across different divides. He said, “When we took over, there was so much agony and despondency because of crisis and other suspicious interactions. We have so far done our best to restore peace but some crisis merchants are bent on taking us back. We will never allow them because our prayer and commitment will defeat these evil people who thrive in creating chaos. The recent attacks in Dong and Kwi in Jos North and Riyom are very regrettable and we are on the trail of these killers. I urge the citizens to pray and also be vigilant to give us information about criminals. We will deal with them.” The Governor thanked the people of Plateau State for praying for his administration and giving him the needed support to record various achievements and improving the lives of the people. Chaplain of the Government House Chapel, Rev. Monsignor David Ajang, who is the Bishop-elect for Lafia said the hope of the world is found in the Lord and people cannot work on the basis of their flesh. He said dependence on God is always profitable as it guarantees victory over every difficult circumstance such as the one that Nigeria is undergoing. He also announced that he was having his last assignment in the Chapel as he will soon be resuming office as the Bishop of Lafia Diocese.