Dear Madam Temilolu, I’ve been a lover of your articles on sexual purity in Saturday PUNCH over the years encouraging young girls to lead a righteous life and preserve their virginity till marriage! Please keep it up ma! May the Lord bless and reward you! Mr Onyedikachukwu Eze, Enugu State Dear Aunty Temilolu, I have been seeing your posts on sexual purity on social media! I was molested by people close to me and having that picture in my head I have always hated sex and anything called a romantic relationship! Up till my final year in the university, I never gave room for any relationship. A man in my church asked me to date him. I decided to give him a chance because I was advancing in age and thought it would be nice to have a breath of fresh air in my life however, it didn’t end well! Whenever we met, he will always force himself on me which I didn’t like. I had to quit the relationship and I hurt so much. When the people close to me kept telling me I’m being too hard on myself by not having any one in my life, I decided to date again and same thing occurred. This one practically walked out on me after promising he’d wait till my wedding night! I’ve been so shattered and can’t stop crying because I’m so in love with him however even though I’m 31, I believe in sexual purity and fear God! It’s so hard to get someone to walk on that part with me. To worsen my plight, I keep feeling I’m doing the wrong thing, by keeping myself! Please how do I get this guy out of my head, my heart and soul? Favour My darling Favour and every other heart-broken girl/lady, I really empathise with you especially when you have to experience heartache and disappointments in relationships over and over again. Can you please endure and be strong? It’s not going to last forever. Believe me that pain you’re nursing probably because of someone who may not  even be worth your attention could turn you to a nervous wreck, dim the light on your path and push you exactly where the devil wants you to be. If I were you, I’d carry my Bible-the word of God- a time-proven weapon to subdue every negative spirit! Yes! Spare yourself trouble, spare yourself grief, spare yourself depression. The world is looking out for and waiting for your star to shine, why would you be crushed? Hmm…if only you knew what’s ahead of you! Observe every hour of prayer and pray with scriptures, let the verses resonate in your spirit all day. In fact, you can read them into your drinking or bathing water and before you know it the weight in your heart dissolves and good things begin to happen to you! For example- There are numerous scriptures you can search out yourself and bring to manifestation in your life! Not only would you be all fired up ready to step into a wonderful new season, you would come out more beautiful than ever before because a lot of impurities and dark spirits would have been extinguished from your being. Your life would also naturally magnetise good things and all the attention you deserve. Your reasoning would be more insightful. You would become more future-oriented such that when the attention from guys increases, you don’t even notice it because you want to pursue your wonderful destiny which God is revealing to you. What more? You become master over those silly emotions that make you fall in love foolishly and land you into painful heartbreaks. Why? Because the spirit of God in the word envelopes you and begins to control your emotions! Wow! Wouldn’t it be so nice to finally ignore that guy who shattered your heart into smithereens and walk with your head held up high with a beautiful smile on your face when you see him unlike in the past when you’d hang your head low out of pain, shame and regret? I really can’t wait to read your testimonies on this. And for Favour- this is the word of the Lord to you- “Thou shalt arise and have mercy on Zion (Favour) for the time to favour her, yea, the set time, is come.” Your testimony will be the loudest and you’ll thank God those guys walked out on you! Expect one of His finest soonest! I invite you to follow me on Facebook –TEMILOLU OKEOWO Instagram @ Okeowo Temilolu. Are you still engaging in pre-marital sex? Each act devalues you! Your wonders are waiting to start. God is waiting for you to become a secondary virgin! You are most welcome on board the chastity campaign train and Girls Club is open for all girls and ladies. Please text your name, age, school or occupation and state of domicile to 07086620576. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com