The Director General of the World Trade Organisation, Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, is a senior international civil servant who is ever comfortable in multilateral institutions.  But it was after she got her latest appointment that I realised how much I underestimated her love for such multilateral entities. From what she’s been saying, I see that she has her own ideas on what to use multilateral bodies to achieve, and she’s been working on such as soon as she arrived office.   But I have my concerns about her view with regard to an aspect of the nexus between multilateral organisations and developing nations. For me, Okonjo-Iweala has a motherly sympathetic view of nations that should develop but simply refuse to do so. It’s good to be sympathetic, except that these nations have no qualms about messing with their human and material resources only to beg others for handouts. Now, they’re using the WTO to engage in ‘fine bara`, stylish begging. They fold hands in their different nations, and now that there’s a vaccine for COVID-19 they want it handed over to them free of charge. Now, I pay attention to Okonjo-Iweala’s arguments on most media platforms. She sees always the good that multilateral organisations such as the WTO mean where the wellbeing of the global community is concerned. I agree, as I’m a fan of multilateral organisations too, and I think the UN especially has done our world a lot of good. I also appreciate some of the things Okonjo-Iweala is now piloting the WTO to achieve. Incidentally, the WTO was the main backdrop to the research for my doctorate degree in Political Science, so years after I completed, I still could follow intimately some of the issues that concern the body which Okonjo-Iweala has been talking about.  For instance, in a recent interview, she was saying, “We need to strengthen multilateralism”, and asking with regard to the WTO:  “Are we fit for purpose” to deliver on some of the challenging issues that confront our world?  She’s also been saying the WTO rules should be updated to bring them in line with the demands of the 21st century. The first time I heard her say this, I was convinced she had a thorough understanding of the major issues that the WTO had had to grapple with since its inception in 1995. Now, this is what I focus on. After the new DG arrived office, she presided over a WTO whose members pushed for the removal of patents on COVID-19 vaccines, wanting other nations to produce apart from the private drug manufacturing companies that came up with them.  The US president, Joe Biden, has also spoken in favour. That’s good, except that the matter isn’t so straightforward, and I think this approach will forever encourage ‘poor’ nations to fold their hands and do nothing. China didn’t fold its hands. It has its own vaccines which, after a lot of talking down by its rivals, the WHO approved for global use recently. Russia’s vaccine too is talked down by its rivals. Yet, India has decided to import Russia’s Sputnik to halt its run-away infection rate. Against this backdrop, the WTO members pushed to get developed nations to remove patents on what their private drug companies expended funds to develop. This is a laid-back, defeatist approach. The pattern has gone on for too long, and we shouldn’t continue to encourage it. I understand much of the arguments Okonjo-Iwaela has been making in favour of ‘poor’ nations with regard to COVID-19 vaccines. In fact, she has used the words ‘poor’ and ‘developing’ on so many occasions and in such a sympathetic manner that I suspect she feels some nations must forever be helped to limp along only. This shouldn’t be the case in a situation where we see what political leaders in ‘poor’ nations do with their abundant natural resources.  With the kind of sympathy she has shown, I think Okonjo-Iweala speaks from an economic point of view, and diplomatically too so as not to offend ‘poor’ nations that supported her election. But I think and speak from the perspective of power, political power and the so much good leaders in ‘poor’ nations could have deployed it to achieve. I’ve sat opposite politicians who understand what political power can be used for, and who know exactly how they want to deploy it in order to raise their states and people from nothing to something. Such are doing this and are achieving so much already. Therefore, I have this mindset that there’s nothing political power cannot achieve if its wielder means business. Even Okonjo-Iweala has inadvertently acknowledged this in one of her latest interviews. She mentions New Zealand, Germany and a Scandinavian country led by women, and where so much advancement is taking place.  Interestingly, she noted that these same nations have handled COVID-19 pandemic effectively. She said these women weren’t elected because they were women, but because they were judged capable leaders who would use political power to improve the well-being of their nations. Also, there are political leaders in other advanced nations who have organised their homes in such a way that there’s effective  link  between researchers and investors. This has made the production of Pfizer, AstraZeneca and Modena vaccines possible within six months of the COVID-19 outbreak. But there are political leaders in ‘poor’ nations who don’t deploy the political powers they have to makes things like these possible even when they have enormous resources to do so. Now that the outcome of their do-nothing is on display, they gather under the umbrella of the WTO to solicit, as usual, for handouts in the form of waver on patents for COVID-19. Note that in all the period that the pandemic has lasted, there has not been any visible effort made either at the continental or national level, especially in Africa, to work and develop a vaccine. Leaders have only shown enthusiasm to import solution, rather than produce solution. My view here is consistent with what I’ve expressed regarding ‘poor’ nations in over a dozen years of being on this page. Some fifty years ago, China was where many ‘poor’ nations are at present. Now the US takes note when China sneezes. How many of the things that ‘poor’ nations do to undermine themselves shall we count? Former President of South Africa, Thabo Mbeki, under the umbrella of the AU, was stating the humongous amount of funds siphoned from the African continent in the last 50 years. We hear of funds that leaders in Africa continue to take out of their nations. Yet, we make excuses for ‘poor’ nations and why they should be given things free. With regard to waver on patents on COVID-19 vaccines that the WTO has called for, the matter is more complicated than that. There’re over 200 ingredients, sourced from over 20 countries to make these vaccines. There’s the technology to be used, the laboratory, and other facilities that include uninterrupted power supply. To get these things together and produce viable vaccines will take between six months and a year. In view of this, an alternative such as contribution of vaccines by advanced nations to the WHO-negotiated COVAX is a suggestion. The WTO should focus on this for now. Okonjo-Iweala has said as head of the WTO she’s been passing the views of poor nations to the advanced ones, and vice-versa. Good. Could she therefore use her good offices to ensure that the continent is empowered at the African Union level to produce vaccines in the future? The continent’s disease control mechanism should be helped to constantly engage in viable research so that we don’t find ourselves in this same situation anymore? Moreover, she can’t continue to always carry ‘poor’ nations like babies before advanced nations. They have to be encouraged to stand on their feet with regard to some of these issues, rather than gather under multilateral organisations to beg. National level is where real power is, it’s where power should be deployed to the benefit of each nation. For if ‘poor’ nations will continue to mess things up at home, they’ll also mess up whatever multilateral bodies such as the WTO organises for them to benefit from. Meanwhile, I congratulate Big Sister, Okonjo-Iweala, on her appointment. I wish her success. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com