In the course of her sojourn in Ghana, Prof Felicia Adeyoyin in 1976 wrote the Nigerian national pledge because her children asked for it. In this interview, her younger sisters, Mrs Joan Ayo and Mrs Margaret Akinware, and her first daughter, Bola Ogunremi, speak to GRACE EDEMA about her life and times How will you describe your mother? My name is Adebola Ogunremi. My mum was a very hardworking woman. I think that is the number one thing I can say about her. I will describe my mother as kind, generous, extremely hardworking, diligent, resourceful and prayerful. She made sure that my siblings and I worked hard. She made sure that we read our bibles. She made sure that we didn’t play with spiritual things. The other thing, especially with the tributes that have come in, is that my mum was very kind and willing to go out of her way to help other people. That’s one thing that my siblings and I hope to continue in the legacy she has left for us. My siblings and I remember our mother as a loving, hardworking, generous and kind woman, who loved God and people. She enjoyed helping others. She cared for our dad by herself with some assistance from others until his last day. We will like her to be remembered as a woman, who loved God and people. How many children did she have and what is your position? She had four children – two boys and two girls. I am the eldest. What will you miss most about her? I will miss her smiles. What does it feel like to have a mother, who was the writer of Nigeria’s national pledge? Well, as a child, it didn’t mean anything. But the gravity of it really just dawned on me and my siblings in these past few weeks. So, we honour her for what she did. Growing up, she was just our mum; we didn’t see her as the writer of the pledge. Has her status as the writer of the pledge in any way opened doors for you and your siblings? No, I don’t think so because it is not something I go around telling people that my mum was the author of the national pledge. One thing that happened two years ago was that my husband and I visited the Onikan Museum on Lagos Island and when we got to the place where Murtala Muhammed’s car was parked, the tour guide started to tell us the story of the person, who wrote the national pledge that her children made her to write it. We all chuckled and my husband said these are the children. We don’t go around telling people that our mom wrote the pledge, so it hasn’t opened any door specifically as far as I am aware. You stated that the tour guide said that it was her children who got her to write the poem. How did you do that? Well, we were in Ghana at that time. The story started around 1975, we were in Ghana and at that time, the Ghanaians had their pledge. So, we were in primary school and every day we would recite the Ghanaian pledge. So, we asked our mom if there was a Nigerian pledge and she said no. So, we said, ‘Why isn’t there one? Shouldn’t there be one?’ So, she took it upon herself to write something, which she published in a newspaper. General Olusegun Obasanjo was the head of state at the time; she might have sent it to him as well. We saw it and thought it was a good idea. It was slightly modified and that is how the national pledge came about. How old were you at that time? In 1976, I was seven. You all just came back to Nigeria that time? No, we were living in Ghana. So, she wrote it over there in Ghana and sent it to Daily Times? Yes, that is correct. What were your best moments with your mum? My very best moment with her would be when I had my first child, my daughter. It wasn’t that my mom was there, but having her just gave me a completely higher regard for my mum than I ever had before. But the best moment I had with her personally would be at my dad’s funeral. The moment was just loving her and for her knowing that she was greatly loved. There were no big moments that anything happened. It was just the time shared together, because my mum prayed a lot for my siblings and me. So, when we have answers to prayers, we always know that it is not that God doesn’t answer our own prayers, but that you know that there is someone, who is sacrificing for you and fasting for you. Do you think she was given her due recognition by the Nigerian government? Well, she was awarded the Officer of the Order of Niger. I think that was the recognition for writing the pledge. Do you think the system celebrates and recognises Nigerians who have contributed to the development of the country one way or the other like your mum? I think people should be celebrated more by the government. I believe people should be celebrated while they are alive and in that regard, my mum was given that award. So, you feel that the award was enough celebration for her? If the government wishes to honour her more, that’s fine. It is not my decision to make. As a family, we honour the memories of our mother, whether she was given any honour or not. But in this particular case, she was awarded the Officer of the Order of the Niger. What are the life lessons you learnt from her? She instilled in us the importance of hard work from a very young age. She would always say to us that the best hands that would serve you were your own. She advised us to work and pray. She expected us to do what was ours to do and commit the rest to the Lord in prayer. One of the most important lessons I learnt from her is to do what you know is right. Do the right thing without fear or favour. The important lesson I learnt from my mum about motherhood is prayer. My mother and father prayed for us all the time. They prayed morning and night, mentioning every one of us by name. They prayed for my siblings and I, our spouses and children one by one. They prayed for each family. They stood in the gap for us in prayer. We are forever grateful to them for their love and sacrifice. The other important lesson I learnt from her is to be generous. I have been overwhelmed by the many testimonies from people about how she blessed them physically, financially, emotionally and in other ways. Finally, it is important to note that she was the originator of the Pledge. Her a rticle, ‘Oath of Allegiance to My Country’, was accepted by the then Head of State, General Olusegun Obasanjo, and was presented to the nation as the national pledge in 1976. The award of the Officer of the Order of the Niger was conferred on her in 2005. Can you describe who the late Prof. Felicia Adeyoyin was to you? My name is Margaret Akinware, I am her second younger sister. I will describe her as motherly, prayerful and inspirational in all aspects. As a matter of fact, I got to study at the University of Lagos because of her pushing. I wanted to study Sociology at the University of Lagos and she went all out to make sure that I was qualified for admission. Not only that, throughout the four years that I spent at the University of Lagos, both for my BSc and Master’s, every day, she brought food for me and my roommates. She was loving and caring, and something else that stood out for her was her passion to make sure that every student at the Faculty of Education graduated. If they had any problem while she was the Head of Department, she was always ready to help them. She went all out to make sure that they completed all their course works at the right time so that they could graduate. What was Prof Adeyoyin’s position in the family and how many of you are in the family? She was the second child in the family of six. What will you miss most about her? What we as her sisters will miss is her motherly love, care and prayers especially; she had four younger sisters and she used to call all of us by our first names. Since our mother died, we have looked up to her as a mother, because she was the eldest. We will surely miss all of that. We thank God that with her belief in God till the end, she was always saying that she knew where she was going and surrendered to Christ. So, that is the greatest hope of all of us. We shall meet again; it is only goodbye and not farewell forever, for we shall meet again on the Resurrection Day. Who was around her when she breathed her last breath and what was the cause of her death? She was sick; if not, she would have been 83 this year. She was sick and died after a brief illness. Her first daughter, second son and some of her siblings were there when she passed away. What lesson did you learn from her life as her sister? The good you do will always come back to you a hundred fold. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com