A mass exodus of technical officials is set to hit Nigeria Professional Football League side Sunshine Stars following the resignation of head coach Gbenga Ogunbote, The PUNCH has learnt. Lawal Abimbola, Ogunbote’s assistant, also resigned from his post. Ogunbote tendered his resignation on Wednesday citing lack of welfare as major reason for quitting the Akure-based club. In a letter addressed to the Chairman, Ondo State Football Agency Interim Committee, dated May 26, Ogunbote lamented the poor treatment of the club’s players. “I am constrained to tender my resignation letter due to results of the team in the last couple of months,” Ogunbote said in the letter. “I took the job in anticipation that we will continue where we stopped the last time I coached the team, with all hands pulling together to support and the team having better results. “However, on this occasion of my relationship with the team, the welfare of the team is way off the mark such that it affects the morale of the players and collective motivation of the team. Players are my tools, with my input to get results. Results are what makes a difference in being a successful coach, which unfortunately is not happening this time,” he added. The coach demanded that ODSFA, parent body of Sunshine, pay him his outstanding salaries, sign-on fees and bonuses. Our correspondent learnt that the former Sharks FC and Enugu Rangers coach is owed eight months salaries while the technical crew members he met at the club have not been paid in 14 months. The players, it was also learnt,  are owed eight months wages by the Ondo State Government. “The coaches that Ogunbote met at the club have not been paid in 14 months,” a technical crew member of Sunshine told The PUNCH. It marks a disappointing end to Ogunbote’s second spell in Akure, after he guided Sunshine to the semi-finals of the 2011 CAF Confederation Cup and the 2012 CAF Champions League during his first stint at the club. Another coach said technical officials were set to resign from their positions in the coming days due to the poor treatment of players and officials by the management of the club. “As it is now, I’m submitting my resignation letter any time from now. Other officials are contemplating leaving too. We have no choice but to seek for better jobs elsewhere.” It was learnt that officials and players of Sunshine Queens, the Ondo State-owned women’s league side, also suffer same fate as the men’s side. Last month, Sunshine Queens players and officials were reportedly owed over 12 months salaries, with players complaining of lack of funds to feed themselves before the NWFL Super Six tourney in Ijebu-Ode last month. Last week, the club’s head coach and Super Falcons assistant coach, Wemimo Matthew, joined Edo Queens alongside her assistant and goalkeepers trainer. Some Sunshine players, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said the situation at the club have gone from bad to worse since the Ondo State Deputy Governor, Lucky Aiyedatiwa, took charge of affairs. “Since the governor (Rotimi Akeredolu) put him in charge of the club about two months ago, we have not won any match, and five coaches have left – two from Sunshine and three from Queens,” one of the players said. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com