Manchester United midfielder, Bruno Fernandes, has been named the Sir Matt Busby Player of the Year for the second successive season. Fernandes first won the award which was presented to him by Adidas last year despite joining the club in January 2020 from Sporting Lisbon. The Portuguese won the prize again in the 2020/2021 season after receiving the most votes from fans, beating Luke Shaw and Cavani. This was disclosed in a statement issued on the club’s official website on Tuesday. “Indeed, supporters based in over 200 different countries had their say on the outcome so thank you to everybody who contributed,” the statement said. “Fernandes has enjoyed another remarkable campaign, scoring 18 times in 36 Premier League starts, claiming nine goals in Europe (Champions League and Europa League) and not forgetting his masterful free-kick winner against Liverpool in the Emirates FA Cup. “He has contributed 11 assists in the Premier League and a further five in Europe and tops many charts for the most creative and productive midfielder around, beating Frank Lampard’s goal record for a midfielder in the Premier League era with his latest strike against Liverpool. “The 26-year-old is the Reds’ leading scorer and donned the captain’s armband in Harry Maguire’s absence for the match with Liverpool last week. There is no disputing his huge influence nor that he is a worthy recipient of the honour. “The classy playmaker was Player of the Month in November and December and was also nominated in October and February. “Furthermore, he has been voted Man of the Match on 12 occasions with Edinson Cavani the next-best on five.
All of our Player of the Year winners article “Luke Shaw and Cavani emerged as the main rivals for the prize after also enjoying superb seasons in the red shirt. In the end, however, Bruno was a very convincing victor with 63 per cent of the votes cast. Mason Greenwood and Marcus Rashford finished in fourth and fifth respectively. “It was much closer last term when Fernandes pipped Anthony Martial by only 1.5 per cent.”