Former Super Eagles players have frowned on Gernot Rohr’s decision inclusion of Galatasaray defender Valentine Ozornwafor in the Eagles squad for next month’s international friendly against Cameroon in Austria, The PUNCH reports. Ozornwafor was called up for the game despite his lack of playing time in the Turkish topflight in the just-concluded season. It is the first time in two years he would be making a return to the Eagles, after he was first invited for the team’s pre-Africa Cup of Nations friendly against Egypt in March 2019 The 21-year-old defender was an unused substitute in the match. He made just one appearance for Galatasaray – an eight-minute cameo in their 6-0 drubbing of Genclerbirligi in the Turkish Super Lig. Reacting to Ozornwafor’s shock invitation, 1994 AFCON winner Emmanuel Amuneke said, “There are so many inconsistencies with the way players are being invited, but the coach determines who comes into the team and who plays as well. That’s his job. “You can’t invite a player who has played only eight minutes to the Eagles. We must be honest with ourselves and tell ourselves some bitter truth. “I’m sure we have some defenders either in the Nigeria Professional Football League or in Europe who deserve the chance in terms of talent and form.” Olympic gold medallist Dosu Joseph added, “His (Ozornwafor) invitation sums it up. How do you invite a player who has played only eight minutes to the senior national team for a friendly? The coach must have seen a lot from the player in the eight minutes he played all season.” CD Feirense’s midfielder Abraham Marcus and Terem Moffi of Lorient were also handed their maiden invitations to the Eagles by Rohr. Nigeria face Cameroon for the 23rd time at the Weiner Neustadt Stadium on June 4. Both countries have met 22 times, with Nigeria winning 11 times and losing only four of those games, with the rest ending in stalemate. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com