Industry players in the oil and gas sector have been urged to take advantage of the N250bn gas intervention fund set aside by the Central Bank of Nigeria to deepen gas consumption across the country. Oil and gas experts and economic analysts said the target of expanding the consumption of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (cooking gas) in Nigeria would be substantially achieved with the appropriate deployment of the fund. The use of cooking gas in Nigeria increased to one million metric tonnes in 2020 from about 400MT consumption level recorded four years ago. Operators said the increase was on the backdrop of the removal of the subsidy on kerosene, but noted that LPG penetration was still far from the national target of five million metric tonnes set for next year. As part of efforts towards stimulating finance to critical sectors of the economy, the CBN introduced the N250bn intervention facility to help stimulate investment in the gas value chain. In its framework for the implementation of intervention facility for National Gas Expansion Programme released, the bank said Nigeria’s proven gas reserves was 188 trillion cubic feet of gas. It, however, said the low level of investment in the gas sector had resulted in the minimal production and utilisation of Compressed Natural Gas and LPG as clean alternative sources of domestic energy in the country. The bank said its aim was to make CNG the fuel of choice for transportation, while LPG would serve for domestic cooking, captive power and small industrial complexes. “The intervention fund by CBN is a welcome development because it will not only support in deepening the consumption of gas but will help ameliorate sicknesses caused by the use of firewood,” a former President, Association of National Accountants of Nigeria, Dr Sam Nzekwe, told our correspondent. He, therefore, urged operators in the gas industry to take advantage of the fund to further expand the sector and increase the penetration of gas consumption. Nzekwe said the deepening of gas usage would reduce the rate of deforestation, a development that would impact positively on the environment. A gas processing and evaporative cooling specialist, Eju Magose, said the intervention for local investors in the gas sector would stimulate the economy. “We have enough to do in the domestic gas space. What is happening internationally in the near future should not affect us because there’s a lot we can do with our resource,” he said. He, however, called for a transparent and seamless process when obtaining the facility from the apex bank in order to encourage industry players. The Executive Secretary, Petroleum Equalisation Fund, Ahmed Bobboi, recently stated that PEF was aligning with the CBN and government to further deepen the consumption of gas in Nigeria. He said to achieve this, the agency was planning to equalise gas price so as to ensure that more citizens had access to gas. He said, “We are trying to introduce the bridging scheme to gas because government has declared this year till 2030 as a decade of gas. “And we say if this (petrol price equalisation) is working for the economy for over 45 years now effectively, if we can extend the practice to gas we believe that it will add value to the economy in so many ways in the value chain.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com