Tell us about yourself. My name is John Amanam Sunday. I am from Nsit Atai Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State. I studied Fine and Industrial Arts at the University of Uyo, Uyo. I am a sculptor. I am currently into prosthetic art. This is for people who have lost different parts of their bodies to unfortunate situations. I design and make these prosthetics according to their skin tones and have them delivered to them. What was growing up like for you? I was born and bred in Calabar, Cross River State. I attended Federal Government College, Ikot Ekpene. As a child, I was passionate about arts and artistic expressions. In primary school, I was awarded best pupil in creative arts for a painting I did which amazed the entire school. I love art and it revolves around me. Art is something I inherited from my father, who got it from his father. My grandfather was a creative person, I learnt. My dad is a carver. He taught me wood carving and other basic artwork even as a child. So, I can say art runs in my blood. Growing up was fun. In secondary school at FGC, I remember spending more time in the arts studio than in the hostel. Everyone knew I was passionate. One time in school, my teacher asked me what I would love to study in secondary school. I told her my dad wanted me to study architecture. After a short glance, she said, “Art will haunt you!” I never understood what she meant, but the word kept echoeing in my head for weeks. Much later, I came to find out that I was being haunted by art. I sat for the United Tertiary Matriculation Examination and got admitted to study Philosophy at the University of Uyo.  The idea that I was studying Philosophy made me extremely uncomfortable and restless, because it was art I really wanted to do. Were you compelled by anyone to study Philosophy? I would not say I was. I was admitted to the department and decided to take it. I only spent two years in the department. I left and sat for the another UTME, where I filled in Fine and Industrial Arts. I was admitted and you needed to see the joy in my heart when I checked the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board’s website and saw that I had been admitted to study Fine and Industrial Arts. So, art has always haunted me. I have always been a victim of my passion for arts. How did your parents feel about this move? My parents were not comfortable with the idea at all. In their calculations, I should be done in two years, get a job and begin to fend for myself and the family. But here I was pursuing a passion. They did not like the mere thought of the fact that I had wasted their money for two whole years. There were a whole lot of reactions, but I needed to do something that would make me happy and fulfilled in the long run. I remember my dad giving me reasons why I should not study arts, one of which is that it is incredibly stressful. He is an archaeologist, but he does crafts and arts. He said he did not want me to go through the stress he went through. My mom also attempted to dissuade me. She would ask, “How many banners will you make for you to make enough money to feed yourself and another man’s daughter who you’ll marry; build a house, pay your children’s school fees and take care of your father and me?” To her, it was a total waste of precious time. She limited arts to banners and other menial productions. But I was not discouraged. I went on, because art has always been like a crush that I had to pursue and win over. Who bankrolled your degree in Fine Arts? I did. I had younger siblings who were still in secondary school at the time, whose school fees also needed to be paid. So, I opted to pay my fees. How were you able to do that? Art is a very lucrative profession. It comes with a lot of exposure. You have the opportunity of meeting different people from different walks of life, who have one challenge or the other, which only a creative artist can solve. I also had students from other departments bring in assignments, which required them to draw or sketch something, and I was always there to help for a fee. Also, some professionals may be referred to the department for their art needs – making of banners, portraits of them or their friends, teaching aids, other art pieces – and all these did not come free. They had to pay. We also did practical practice, where we exhibited and got our art pieces sold. I was making money, so paying fees was not a problem; I would not say I was not comfortable during my school days. All this was fun for me because I was following my passion. Finally, I graduated with flying colours. Something significant happened in my final year. I came up with an art idea for my project that I titled “Tomorrow.” It was a sculpture made of metal – half human, half machine, with a spanner. It amazed everyone, including the university authorities. This was my first shot at the limelight. I spent a lot of time coming up with that idea and I broke many conventional rules. It was a very controversial one, because in the process of finishing the work, the university authorities picked interest in the work and wanted to use it as a centrepiece for a national science and technology competition in Abuja. That was in 2014. The art piece was flown to Abuja, and I could not believe the reception I got from both national and international art enthusiasts who were present at the event. They took pictures of me and the piece, and it made me feel good and boosted my confidence. It showed that there was something I was doing right. “Tomorrow” won the art competition and my school was named ‘Best Innovative University of the Year.” Before I came back from Abuja, my project supervisor had already called me excitedly, telling me that I should not even bother (defending my project), that I had scored an ‘A’ grade. I never expected this; I was just so excited. Hundreds of people trooped into the university to see my work and it was a great experience. It made me realise that I had so much to offer to the world, so I began to develop myself even further. How did you start making prostheses; what inspired this decision? I am the first Nigerian prosthetic artist and I have my patent for it. I am working on getting the patent for Africa. Well, I began prosthetics unexpectedly. I would not say it was something deliberate; I never thought I would. I am a passion-driven person. I create targets and strive to bring them to fruition. A significant event, which launched me fully into the world of prosthetics, was when my younger brother had an accident in 2019 which made him lose his fingers. He was so worried and was slipping into depression. I was personally affected because he lived with me when this incident occurred. My brother is a very emotional person, so you could see the sadness all over his face as he looked at his hands. He was about 21 at the time. So, I decided to go into research on how art can be used to help him. I was already into creating special effects for movies, so I had an idea of how enhancing or degrading one’s looks works. I had no guide and not much fund, but I was determined to get something positive out of it. I had a few materials at my disposal to create something he could use. We had earlier tried purchasing prosthetics for him, but it was too expensive, and none could match his skin colour. After the research, something fruitful came out. It was a long but successful journey. I produced my first prosthetic in 2020 after several failed attempts. I gave it to him and he was so happy. My family could not believe it, because when I told them I was going to do something about the situation, they laughed in doubt. I remember telling the doctor, during the surgery, to be careful with the way he handled the hand, because I was designing something to help; he got angry, asking me who I was and what I felt I knew. My initial plan was just to make the prosthetics for him, but in my further research and market survey, I found out that there are many individuals who face this same problem. I made a post about the success story and it went viral. I started receiving calls from people all over the world, asking if I could make something to different specifications. They asked for the name of my company and the location. This was when I knew I had to restructure the whole process to suit the global market. I was working on a waterfall in Delta State at the time. I quit the job and moved back to Uyo. I registered the business as Immortal Cosmetic Art and began production, knowing that it was serious business and that I had people to help. What informed the name “Immortal Cosmetic Art?” “Immortal” has been my nickname since my university days. In school, you hardly hear anyone call me John. How did this nickname come about? Well, there is a very intriguing story to this. About seven years ago, in my second year in the university, I had a dream. In that dream, someone in white apparel – perhaps, an angel – tapped me and I saw myself on a huge stage, with a great crowd cheering me. But they did not call me John, which is my name; they called me “immortal.” I had never heard the name before, and I felt it was funny. The man looked at me straight in the eye and told me, “John, that’s the future!” When I woke up, I was so worried. I took out my sketch pad, and for the first time, I sketched a picture of me and titled it “immortal.” I stared at it for a while and trashed it. A few days later, my friends, I think, picked it up and pasted it on the departmental notice board, making jest of the name. Somehow, the name stuck. I tried to stop them though, but it didn’t work. Immortal is a word that relates to God. Has anyone ever questioned you for answering that name? (Laughs) Yes, I get that a lot. People ask me if I want to be like God and why I am taking God’s praise and place. It is crazy. For me, “immortal” means someone unforgettable, a memorial. I feel that I will always be remembered. I am immortal because I cannot be forgotten. So, what will you say has been your greatest challenge as a prosthetic artist? I have had a series of challenges and I keep on overcoming them. On the long list are purchase of materials, machines and getting a patent. These were the initial challenges we had, but we have been working tirelessly on how we can overcome them. Currently, my greatest challenge is time. Of all the challenges we have had, time has been a constant challenge. Prosthetics is a very time-consuming job. It is like a jealous wife. I barely have time for myself. I do not go out with friends anymore or have the luxury of chatting with family as I would have loved to. I have not been outgoing though, but prosthetic art has really consumed me and eaten up my personal life. Resting is even a problem. What advice will you offer budding artists contending with various challenges on the way to realising their dreams? I will advise young artists to be consistent. Consistency is the key to getting to any destination in life. Keep doing that little thing you are doing and do it often; improve as you do it. People are watching; the world is watching. I knew I would be great, but I did not know it would be from making prosthetics. It was seriousness and improvement that got me where I am. I wish every artist can also learn to be consistent and focused. It is hard out there; only the persistent will survive. Secondly, every artist should strive to be unique. Do not do what others are doing. Everyone is painting portraits; you too want to join the bandwagon. No; choose a niche and develop yourself to be a household name in the field. The secret to making wealth is problem-solving. We have so many problems in Nigeria; people are not keen on solving them. They are busy chasing money. Look for a problem and solve; money will come. It was not long before I started making money from art. I spent some huge chunk of money on research and trial and error. Look at it now; the world is after me. What do you consider your greatest achievement so far on this journey? My greatest achievement so far will be the joy I see on the face of my clients. It is not about the money or the fame. As I said, I am a very reserved person. (I feel excited) when I am called up by a client, who tells me how I have changed their life with my art. They send me videos and I am blown away. It humbles me every time. It comes with a blessing, having to see the excitement on their faces after having gone through a condition for 10 or 11 years. It is a beautiful experience. Who are your mentors? I have just one mentor. His name is Mr Udo-Ema Inyang, the father of Nigerian contemporary art. He inspires me a lot. In the same vein, I hope to train other interested artists in the art. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com