The Lagos State Police Command has commenced investigation into the killing of a police officer, Inspector Johnson Ozogo, during a robbery in the Amukoko area of the state. PUNCH Metro gathered that Ozogo was about to resume from his annual leave when tragedy struck. It was learnt that the inspector had a Bajaj motorcycle, which he often used for commercial purposes, and on the day of the incident, Ozogo rode it to a destination in the Amukoko area of the state. The hoodlums allegedly ambushed him around 5.20am and while attempting to dispossess him of the motorcycle, they attacked the 40-year-old police officer with weapons. When policemen later came to the scene, Ozogo was said to have been found lying motionless on the ground. Our correspondent learnt that the policeman died as a result of the injuries he sustained during the attack and the hoodlums made away with his motorcycle. PUNCH Metro gathered that no one knew that Ozogo was a serving policeman until one of his colleagues visited the Amukoko Police Division to identify his remains. A source revealed to PUNCH Metro that until his death, the inspector was attached to the works department at the command headquarters in Ikeja, adding that he was killed a day to his resumption from his annual leave. The source stated, “The deceased was a police inspector attached to the works department, state headquarters, Ikeja. Inspector Johnson Ozogo, 40, was on the police annual leave and was to resume duty on April 20, 2021, before he met his untimely death. “The deceased owned a new Bajaj motorcycle and left home on April 19, 2021, around 5.20am, with his motorcycle, but the motorcycle was violently taken away by hoodlums. He was killed during the attack.” When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi, said the command had commenced investigation into the circumstances surrounding Ozogo’s death, adding that the police were trailing the suspects. Adejobi said, “I just spoke to the Divisional Police Officer and he said he (Ozogo) was attacked by hoodlums while he was probably doing okada business and as of the time he was attacked, we never knew he was a policeman. “He died on the spot. We have not arrested any of the suspects, who attacked him, but we are on the matter and hopefully we are going to get them.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com