Some Nigerians have criticised the Special Adviser to the President on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, over his claim of a plot to pass a vote of no confidence in the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd), due to the raging insecurity in the country. Adesina, in a Facebook post on Thursday evening titled ‘They Should Let Us Breathe,’ blamed the Senate, opposition party, religious leaders and civil society groups for the state of the nation, saying they should “please get their knees off the neck of Nigerians.” He added, “Rather than team up with government and security agencies to find solutions, some past and present political leaders, disgruntled religious leaders, and ethnic champions are in cahoots, to exacerbate the situation. “They are plotting to hold conferences, which would pass a vote of no confidence in President Muhammadu Buhari, a man they so much love to hate.” Describing Buhari’s critics as “agent provocateurs,” he alleged that they sowed the seed of evil, disharmony and suspicion in the country with the words of their mouths. But some Nigerians online condemned the comments by the presidential aide. @Adechukwudile tweeted, “Mr Femi, I must be honest with you, for the mere fact that you thought this brilliant enough to post on the Internet, all I can say is ‘how art the mighty fallen!’ You used to be a respected columnist but look at you now. Just look at the article a presidential spokesman wrote. “You are always deflecting from issues. Who is stopping you from breathing? When last did your master, the mannequin, address us, his subjects? You met the country in a relatively stable situation, but in six years, look at where you have taken us to. Who is stopping you from breathing, Femi?” Another Twitter user, @holluremy, said, “It is the president and the presidency that should remove their legs from the neck of Nigeria and Nigerians. Go to the streets and find out how Nigerians feel about your government. Let the president hear the voices of the people that elected him. Stop the hypocrisy.” Similarly, @solomonlaw20 asked, “Is the citizenry breathing?” @Musayakubumust2 also said, “Speaking of the insecurity situation in the country, your boss appealed to terrorists to release students kidnapped for weeks. What a president we have!” This followed the abduction of at least 800 students, including those attending higher institutions, in the last six months. On Wednesday, gunmen abducted students of Abia State University, Uturu. Some students of Greenfield University, Kaduna abducted by bandits in April remain in captivity.    ,, Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com