Total announced a name change to TotalEnergies in compliance with the resolution made at its recent Ordinary and extraordinary shareholders’ meeting. The company stated that the name change was in line with the current energy transition to cleaner sources. It said would be adopting a new visual identity alongside the name change in its strategic transformation into a broad energy company. TotalEnergies would become a full-fledged energy company that would produce and market globally oil and biofuels, natural gas and green gas, renewables and electricity, according to the company. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of TotalEnergies, Patrick Pouyanné, stated that “Energy is life. We all need it and it’s a source of progress.” “So today, to contribute to the sustainable development of the planet facing the climate challenge, we are moving forward, together, towards new energies. Energy is reinventing itself, and this energy journey is ours.” “Our ambition is to be a world-class player in the energy transition. That is why Total is transforming and becoming TotalEnergies,” he added. The company said that the new name and visual identity embodied the course TotalEnergies had resolutely charted for itself, which was into that of a broad energy company committed to producing and providing energies that were ever more affordable, reliable and clean. “Our 105,000 employees are committed to energy that is ever more affordable, clean, reliable and accessible to as many people as possible. “Active in more than 130 countries, TotalEnergies puts sustainable development in all its dimensions at the heart of its projects and operations to contribute to the well-being of people,” the company noted. TotalEnergies stated its multi-year goal of reaching net zero emissions by 2050. It revealed that it would reduce emissions from 46 per cent in 2015 to 25 – 30 per cent in 2030, and by 2050, it would have cut CO2 emissions by 40 per cent to arrive at net zero. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com