The Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Aviation, Hassan Musa on Monday told the House of Representatives that the Federal Government had released N5bn out of the N26bn approved as COVID-19 intervention fund for the aviation industry. Musa, who appeared before the House Committee on Aviation in Abuja on Monday, explained that the intervention fund was meant for all stakeholders in the sector, including airlines and car hire operators while the balance was meant for the agencies and regulators, including the palliatives for salaries. In his presentation, Director General of the Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority, Musa Nuhu, stated that regulatory agencies needed more equipment to be installed in all the airports across the country. Nuhu also stated that any aircraft above 22 years would not be licensed to operate in Nigeria, in line with the extant policy, just as he noted that adequate provision would be made to ensure adherence to aircraft maintenance rules. The DG, who noted that the NCAA had not been able to procure the necessary equipment due to paucity of fund, however noted that some of the equipment ordered for since two years just arrived the country last week. The NCAA decried the present state of the Murtala Mohammed International Airport Ikeja Lagos, saying that the facility was turning into a jungle. On his part, the Managing Director of FAAN, Rabiu Yadudu, said the agency had established an environmental unit that handled all related issues as well as ensure adequate training of personnel and environmental modification. Yadudu also noted that $300,000 worth of equipment were requested for, and on arrival would be distributed to various departments. On his part, the Commissioner, Accident Investigation Bureau, Akin Olateru, disclosed that only one accident was estimated to occur within one billion flying hours. The Chairman, House Committee on Aviation, Nnolim Nnaji, expressed grief over the death of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, 10 officers and men of the Armed Forces in a plane crash on Friday. Nnaji called for provision of intervention fund for the aviation industry in the bid to ensure safety and security at various airports.  Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com