Youths have backed the National leader of the All Progressives Congress, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, declaration that he never endorsed any of the party’s aspirants for council chairmanship and councillorship in Lagos State. The youths described Tinubu’s stance as an addition to his towering democratic credentials that had attracted many to his political ideology. The youths, who are from Surulere, further described Tinubu’s remark as timely intervention ahead of the primaries scheduled for next Saturday. They said it would end the activities of APC party leaders who allegedly use the name of the former governor to impose aspirants on party members, particularly to influence the outcome of the exercise across the state. Speaking on the statement released by Tinubu Media Office, the youths stressed that the stance of the party’s national leader will give aspirants vying to become APC candidates during the next council poll equal opportunity to clinch the party’s ticket in Surulere and other Local Governments. Reacting to Tinubu’s statement, a member of a youth-based group, Shitta Gents, Razaq Animashaun, said this will douse the tension within APC. Animashaun said, “In Surulere where the youths resoundingly want one of their own, Idris Aregbe, as chairman, Asiwaju has further justified our trust by unmasking the lies been peddled by leaders of the party especially to manipulate the primaries outcome for their preferred candidate. “Youth all over Surulere Local Government Council have resoundingly applauded the decision of APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to ensure a level playing ground for all councillors and chairmanship aspirants,” he stated. Other leaders of vibrant youth groups in Surulere, including those of Orita Abimbola, Western Base, Shitta Gents, and several others also applauded the development. A female youth activist, Vera Emmanuel, added, “I have my own aspirant for the primaries. And before he embarked on the campaign, he respectfully consulted all party leaders in Surulere about his intentions before joining the race but unlike a few others who hoped for some manipulation, he only relied on God and his solid popularity among the people of Surulere”.