There is no debate that the education sector was the most prominent victim of the COVID-19 pandemic globally. The shutting down of schools to save children from the rapid spread of the lethal virus had far reaching economic and educational implications for schools, especially in Nigeria. With the private sector controlling about 43% of Nigerian schools’ ownership (Federal Ministry of Education, 2019), the economic effect bites beyond the walls of the schools to the communities. According to Global Schools Forum’s report by Teachout and Zipfe, on the sub-Sahara education sector, 50% of teachers working in private schools suffered a 50% dip in salaries pay-out in 2020. Similarly, a survey by Education International revealed that, among 93 Teacher Union from 67 countries, nearly two-thirds reported that education workers in private institutions had been significantly affected by the pandemic, with teachers on temporary contracts and support personnel the most severely impacted (United Nations, 2020). According to the Nigerian Economic Summit Group, NESG, the Education Sector remains a growth area for job creation. The Nigerian Bureau of Statistics collaborates with its report placing the Education Sector as one of the top 5 sectors that created over 59m jobs in 2019. In Lagos State, Nigeria’s socio-economic hub, where there are about 18,000 private schools, nearly 12,000 low-cost schools provide education to millions of children from not-so-privileged communities across the state. They were the most hit. Before the pandemic, these schools depended on low-cost tuition fees from parents and double-digit interest loan facilities to fund the provision of the amenities and services needed to aid learning. Beyond fund cut-downs and revenue losses for the school owners, adopting virtual learning or a hybrid system – the new normal for the education system – posed a challenge for the low-cost private schools due to the obvious financial constraints. These issues are worthy of concerns for the school owners as they are laden with the responsibility to swiftly adapt to these changes and ensure a safe learning environment for young learners. As schools resume for the new term, we have highlighted some crucial steps to guide school owners to bounce back and prepare for resumption despite the health and financial challenges. 1. Do not let your guard down; ensure strict adherence to COVID 19 protocols The lessons learnt from the unexpected initial wave of the pandemic is that the consequence of an infection in a school occurs at lightning speed. To stay open, all the schools must endeavour not to let themselves down by not letting their guards down. This is the time to prepare much more than ever by ensuring strict adherence to all the safety protocols amongst the students, parents, and teachers. Insist on maintaining physical distancing, handwashing or sanitising, facemask wearing and social distancing measures between personnel. It is crucial to note that until vaccination has engendered an acceptable global herd immunity, there is a possibility of another deadly wave, which could further lead to the closure of schools. 2. Build Capacity to Support Innovation School proprietors need to see the reopening of schools not as merely resuming the operation of schools but as an opportunity to creatively integrate time, people, technology, and innovation into an ecosystem of learning. During the first phase, remote learning was swiftly adopted as the new learning paradigm and acculturating this new normal requires investments in new immersive technology that allows the school to provide more than classroom learnings. We encourage school owners to create alliances, build collaborations, invest in these immersive tools that can help in fostering remote or hybrid learning opportunities. Investing in these tools at a go might be expensive given the current realities, but investing in the low hanging fruits, easy to deploy software, and other tech hardware devices should be a good starter as you gradually tilt to what might be the new normal. 3. Have a Contingency Plan A survival plan should be a must-have for every school owner as you move to reduce loss or absorb the cost to be incurred in adjusting to the new education realities. There is a need to research for low-cost funding to help bridge the financial gaps. A couple of interventions funds that provide very favourable pre-conditions and low-interest regimes are now available to leverage for your growth plan.  The Federal Government has launched the MSME Survival Fund to help small business bounce back from the pandemic. Similarly, the Lagos State Government, in collaboration with the First Bank, recently launched an N5 billion education-specific intervention fund – LSETF-First Edu Loan – for low-cost private schools to fund their programmes. Access Bank also has a low-interest Education Loan facility you can take advantage of for your recovery roadmap. Considering that life and business can take a dramatic turn towards unforeseen circumstances requires that you hedge these business risks with a trusted insurer. Leadway Assurance Company Limited, which pride itself on the self-imposed mandate of “insuring happiness”, is Nigeria’s leading insurers with a six-year running streak of being the highest claims paying insurer in the industry, comes to mind. We recommend the Leadway Assurance L-Boss insurance plan providing rest of mind and happiness for the business owner, with an all-round enterprise cover for all your business risks. The L-Boss supports your business by covering you against the risk of losing your business assets. It is also comprehensive and brings your multiple business assets under one cover such that the contents of your business premises, business motor vehicle and employees are protected with an additional provision for employees’ medical expenses/death benefit. The sweetener for Entrepreneurs at these times is that the plan allows for tranche payment of your premium either monthly, quarterly, or semi-Annually. To find out more about the L-Boss, you can visit www.leadway.com or call the Leadway Assurance customer care helpline on 01-2800-700. You can also send an email to Lcs@leadway.com for professional advisory or request a call back by visiting www.leadway.com/call-me. We are within your reach on our social media outlets – @LeadwayAssurance on Facebook & Instagram, @Leadwayinsure on Twitter. You can send a DM, and we would revert with all the information you require.