IMO State Government on Thursday restated its commitment to the welfare and security of residents of the state. The state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Declan Emelumba, said this in Owerri on Thursday when he hosted family members of an undergraduate of the Imo State University, who was killed by a stray bullet. Our correspondent gathered that the deceased, Miss Divineblessing Nwaneri, a 100 Level student of IMSU in the Department of Soil Science, hailed from Obollo in the Isiala Mbano Local Government Area of the state. Nwaneri, 22, was hit by a stray bullet at the front of the Government House in Owerri on her way home at about 10pm on Saturday, April 24, 2021. She was quickly taken to the Federal Medical Centre, Owerri, where she eventually died from bleeding as a result of the bullet wound. Emelumba, who sympathised with the family over their loss, assured them that the state government would take appropriate measures to provide them the needed succour. He added that measures had been taken by the state government in synergy with security agencies to restore calm and ensure the security of lives and property. “We feel your feelings very deeply and we assure you that government will alleviate your pains to the extent possible. Governor Hope Uzodimma is synergizing with security agencies and calm is gradually being restored to the Eastern Heartland,” he said. In his response, father of the deceased, Mr Harrison Nwaneri, a Lagos-based pastor, thanked the commissioner for what he described as the state government’s “swift intervention”. “I am deeply grieved but all the same, I am also satisfied with government’s efforts to alleviate our pains in these trying times,” the father of the deceased added. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com