The International Air Transport Association has said that accepting vaccinated passengers should be the best practice to reopen borders. In its recent data analysis, 20 countries were indicated to have wholly or partially lifted restrictions for vaccinated travelers. The IATA has openly expressed its support for unrestricted access to travel for vaccinated travelers by applauding the growing numbers of countries making evidence–driven decisions to open their borders to vaccinated travelers. IATA Director-General, Willie Walsh, said, “A safe opening of borders to international travel is the goal. And scientific evidence and data such as that presented by Robert Koch Institute, European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, and the United States Centre for Disease Control should be the basis for the decision-making needed to achieve that. “There is increasing scientific evidence that vaccination is not only protecting people but also dramatically reducing the risk of COVID-19 transmission. This is bringing us closer to a world where vaccination and testing enables the freedom to travel without quarantine. “Germany and at least 20 other countries have already taken an important step forward in re-opening their borders to vaccinated travelers. “These are the best practice examples for others to quickly follow.” Walsh explained that the decision of increasing numbers of countries to accept vaccinated travelers without quarantine measures adds pressure for a digital solution to manage vaccine certificates and COVID-19 test results. “A gap is opening up between countries responding to scientific evidence, and those exhibiting a lack of preparation or excessive caution in reopening borders. Countries that seize the opportunity offered by the increasing numbers of vaccinated travelers can protect their populations and reap an economic reward,” Walsh added. The IATA is the trade association for world airlines. It also helps in formulating industry policy on critical aviation issues. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com