Truck drivers on Friday paralysed commercial activities in Onitsha, Anambra State, after two persons were confirmed dead in an auto crash in the area. The accident was allegedly caused by officials of the Anambra State Transport Management Agency following an altercation with a truck driver at the Upper Iweka area of Onitsha. The development led to a protest by truck drivers who blocked the Onitsha-Asaba Expressway, resulting in a gridlock for hours. A source said, “The truck which rammed into two stationed buses was being driven by an ATMA official who collected the key from the truck driver during the altercation. I didn’t know what the truck driver did but I saw the ATMA official dragging the key with him until he succeeded and bolted off. “The way the ATMA official drove the lorry showed he was not good at it. He lost control and rammed into two commercial buses. Some persons including the ATMA driver and those standing by the road died instantly while others sustained injuries. I saw about nine bodies lying on the floor.” The Sector Commander, Federal Road Safety Corps, Utten Boyi, confirmed the incident, adding that only two persons lost their lives while one was injured. He said bodies of the deceased had been deposited at a morgue, advising motorists to desist from speeding especially in build-up areas. Boyi said, “A multiple fatal road traffic crash happened down flyover upper Iweka around 12pm. The crash was between an unidentified driver of a Mercedes trailer with the number plate SMK 728 DA, an unidentified driver of a Toyota Hiace bus with registration number HTE 791 XA and an unidentified driver of a Mitsubishi L300 bus with registration number, NNE 138 ZF. “Eight persons were involved in the crash comprising five male adults, one female adult and two male children. One male adult sustained serious injuries and was rushed to Toronto Hospital by the FRSC rescue team from Upper Iweka Command, while two other male adults were confirmed dead by the doctor on duty at the same hospital and they had been deposited at the morgue.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com