Some students of Corona Secondary School, Agbara, Ogun State, have won both national and international awards. The awards include the Council of British International Schools, National History Awards and Association for International Schools awards. A statement by the school said Jay Esemudje, who was the head prefect was the recipient of the COBIS award and only student awarded the AISA award in the whole of Africa with over $600,000 worth of scholarship. Another student, Tamara Akika, also got the COBIS award; the third COBIS award recipient was Kenechukwu Ozoemene; the overall winner of the NHA in Nigeria was Oyindoubra Akika while Toluwanimi Sonuga also got the NHA award. Speaking at the award presentation, principal of CSS, Mrs Chinedum Oluwadamilola, noted that  the students had made the school proud for their diligence and commitment to success,  adding  that the school had always in its capability  provided a good platform for the students to achieve an outstanding academic result. Oluwadamilola said, “This is an event where we are celebrating excellence. We have been participating in the National History Competition for the past six years and at various levels we have won. We have been winners at senior and junior categories but this is the first time we are combining both  at the national level with one of our students scoring 100 per cent. “The other award, AISA, for the first time we won an award for excellence and for the second time we won again. “COBIS award cuts across various nations of the world. The award is in six categories and each school is expected to put in only three: nominations and talk about what the students have done with evidence. We went in for three and we won the three.” The Head Prefect, Esemudje, appreciated the school for its support at all times. He said, “I received the COBIS award for my  excellent contribution to the Wonder School Community. This award is the recognition of students that do things they love. “The AISA awards came as a surprise and an honour to have been picked among the students all over the continent.” Ozoemene said the award was a reward for his performances in extracurricular activities. “l was quite surprised when I heard my name among the recipients of this award. My simple message is that if something you want does not exist, then make it happen,” he said. Akika, a year 10 student, said she was happy for making her school proud. Sonuga, a  year 11 student said, “I am excited about the award that was presented, it is a result of hard work. I almost saw this coming because I felt we will win because my school has been a winner at all times” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com