Pan-Northern socio-political organisation, Arewa Consultative Forum, on Saturday, expressed its sadness over the death of the chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru, and other senior military officers in a plane crash at the Kaduna International Airport on Friday. The ACF National Chairman, Chief Audu Ogbe, in a condolence message by its National Publicity, Emmanuel Yawe, noted that under the late Army chief, the fight against insurgents was beginning to gain a direction. The forum also prayed God to grant the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), the wisdom to select a suitable replacement for the COAS, saying, “The security situation we find ourselves in Nigeria today calls for nothing but the best.” The northern body added, “On behalf of the Arewa Consultative Forum, I wish to condole with the President and Commander-in-Chief over the tragic death yesterday of the Chief of Army Staff, Gen Ibrahim Attahiru, and 10 others in a plane crash. The death of these gallant officers in active service has come as tragic news to all members of the ACF. “We remember that only recently, the President appointed Gen. Ibrahim Attahiru with other service chiefs to lead the fight against insurgency and all other forms of threats to our collective national security. We at the ACF were just beginning to appreciate his new approach to tackling our multiple security challenges when the news of his tragic death hit us. “We have since then been praying at the ACF that God would grant the President, the Army high command and the rank and file the fortitude to bear this tragic loss. We similarly pray for the other gallant members of the Armed Forces who lost their lives. We condole with members of their families in this their hour of distress and emotional trauma.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com