Civil rights advocacy group, Human Rights Writers Association of Nigeria, has spoken against the N70 million company income tax demanded by the Federal Inland Revenue Services. HURIWA decried the FIRS demand on the basis that it is a non-profit organisation that has been mandated by the Corporate Affairs Commission to refrain from every profit-making activity. According to the National Coordinator of HURIWA, Emmanuel Onwubiko: “How can the FIRS that has no power of oversight over CSOs be seen demanding for payment of company’s Income tax from a body that the Corporate Affairs Commission directed by law not to ever engage in business or any profitable venture? This is insanity taken too far by the FIRS and our legal people will be following up soon on this madness of government rascality.” Onwubiko also claimed the imposed company income tax is a ploy to punish HURIWA for its criticism of the FIRS in a PUNCH interview. “The FIRS is on a vendetta and witch hunting adventure against the organisation for criticising the Federal Inland revenue services in a Punch interview in which the newspaper sought our opinion regarding its findings that the federal tax agency earmarked humongous amount in their 2021 budget as entertainment expenses to be paid for them by taxpayers,” Onwubiko said. “This is an attempt to muzzle free speech because on many occasions, many prominent federal government officers had approached HURIWA’s national coordinator to slow down on our criticisms of the failures of the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration. Because they failed to get us to compromises and be silent, the FIRS think it can use illegal methodology to intimidate, harass and force us into silence. Aluta continua, victoria ascerta. We will neither be cowed or silenced by the Muhammadu Buhari’s administration.” The PUNCH had reported that civil society organisations, including HURIWA and Transparency International, condemned the N1.4bn budget for meals and refreshments by the Federal Inland Revenue Service in the 2021 fiscal year. Onwubiko had described FIRS as a “cesspool of filth and massive corruption”. He also said that the “revelation of a budget of N1.4bn for meals is a continuation of the heritage of corruption in the agency,” and added that “there is the need for a clean sweep in that agency because it is clear that corruption is deeply rooted and needs surgical action to eradicate this social menace.”