ACCUSTOMED to global ill-repute, Nigerians received the latest ranking of the country as the third worst governed of 104 countries surveyed with a sense of déjà vu. The Chandler Good Governance Index 2021 that ranked Nigeria as the third worst-led jurisdiction, ahead only of Zimbabwe and Venezuela, cited poor leadership, lack of strong institutions and corruption as some of the factors taken into consideration. These, along with insecurity, rights violation and incompetent law enforcement are experienced daily by the population. Reversing them should be a priority for the federal and state governments. Based on seven broad pillars and 34 indicators, the CGGI is prepared by the Singapore-based Chandler Good Governance Institute. It cited “leadership and foresight, robust laws and policies, strong institutions, financial stewardship, attractive marketplace, global influence and reputation as well as helping people rise.” For Nigeria’s 206 million people, the absence of these and their consequences have made their lives miserable and tipped their country towards state failure. The ranking therefore surprises no one. Poor governance has been rising steadily since 1999 and has reached an unprecedented level under the current President, Major-General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.). Added to existing corruption, ineptitude, and lack of vision, Buhari has elevated sectionalism, sectarianism, nepotism, and exclusion to be the guiding principles of his Presidency and worsened governance. Politically, the country is divided as never before: calls for restructuring have collided with militant self-determination activism. Two recessions in five years on the back of falling oil prices and the COVID-19 global meltdown could have been avoided with intelligent economic management. Terrorists and bandits from all over West Africa have taken over territories, disrupted farming, transport and commerce. Corruption has worsened and infrastructure is dilapidated and inadequate. On the Ease of Doing Business chart, Nigeria’s ranking at 131 out of 190 countries is still dismal. Terrible governance is reflected in the power sector. After 22 years and billions of dollars of public funds, power available for distribution averages only 4,000 megawatts. The World Bank reported that Nigeria now has the highest percentage of its people — 25 per cent — without access to electricity. Poor governance ensured that while the population growth averages 3.0 per cent annually, electrification grows at only 1.1 per cent. The country already hosts over 90 million extremely poor, having overtaken India as the global poverty capital in 2018. In Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index, from 2010 to 2020, the country hovered between 136th out of 180 countries and 149th. Corruption pervades all aspects of national life and often adds 20 per cent to all public procurement, alleges the US Department of Commerce. Says the UNDP, “Corruption is a governance deficit —a result of malfunctioning state institutions due to poor governance.” The Nigeria Police is adjudged by some to be among the worst globally. Despite the allure of a large and youthful population —over, 62 per cent are below 25 years old; over 34 million hectares of arable land, 853 kilometres of coastline, 44 mineral types and 40 billion barrels in crude oil reserves, foreign direct investment is drying up as the leadership at national and sub-national levels is so bankrupt that the country remains dependent on crude rather than exploit its considerable human and material resources to diversify the economy. The FDI has been declining steadily, from $4.45 billion in 2016, $3.3 billion in 2019 and $2.6 billion in 2020 by UNCTAD figures. Only poor governance explains how a country with capacity to pump over 2.0 million barrels of crude per day also relies almost entirely on imports for refined petroleum products. Instead of opening up its railway sector for foreign and domestic investment, the government borrows heavily from China and retains a federal monopoly on the sector. The federal and state governments need to shake off incompetence, greed and corruption and work hard to remove Nigeria from the world’s worst rankings. On the Fragile States Index 2020, it settled at 14. It is ranked third most terrorised country on the Global Terrorism Index; two groupings, Boko Haram/ISWAP, and Fulani herdsmen/bandits are rated among the world’s five most deadly terrorist groups. It is among three countries under the greatest threat of famine in 2021/22, according to the UN Food and Agricultural Organisation. In the UNDP’s Human Development Index, Nigeria ranked 161 of 189 countries. The rankings in wretchedness are many: highest number of out-of-school children, highest in child marriage, fourth highest in infant mortality rate and world’s highest number of malaria cases. The current unemployment rate of 33.3 per cent is also one of the highest. Reversing this ugly trend requires a drastic change in the choices the leadership makes: corruption must be slain as it interferes with merit, transparency, and service delivery. The CGGI stresses the deep connection between good governance and national prosperity, and urges governments to invest in enhancing skills and creating opportunities for citizens to thrive. Public service should therefore be driven by meritocracy; the federal character principle should not be an excuse for nepotism and the enthronement of mediocrity. Building strong, virile institutions goes beyond merely establishing bureaucracies, adherence to rules and processes is crucial, said the UN’s Economic and Social Affairs Department. It added, “Without effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels, there can be no progress in the delivery of essential services such as health, education, clean water and sanitation, or transportation, among others.” Nigeria must clean up its politics and elections to allow the best hands to emerge, reform the bureaucracies at federal, state, and local levels; merit, openness, and accountability should be enthroned. The role of government in commerce should be reduced to that of regulator in a liberalised, private sector-led operating environment. Corruption must be stamped out. Insecurity has to be tamed. Above all, the country’s administrative architecture must be urgently reformed to fit its natural federal configuration to promote autonomy, inclusion and competition. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com