The International Lawyers Assisting Workers on Friday condemned the sack of workers in Kaduna State and the threat by the state government to sack more workers in the coming days. The body made its position known in a statement titled ‘We are with Nigeria Labour Congress’ jointly signed  by Adesina Oke, Femi Aborisade, Jessica Jaja, Benson Upah, and Onyeisi Chiemeke. The statement read, “The conduct of the government is an affront to law, morality and the well-being of the affected workers with grave security implications for the entire country. “The mass sack and proposed sack are defective legally and procedurally in light of the terms and conditions governing their employment and disengagement. “We are afraid, the motivations of the Kaduna State Government are ill-informed, uncharitable, defective and counter-productive.” The body also stated that the government’s violation of the extant labour laws on this scale not only trivialises democracy but also constitutes an invitation to anarchy, especially as the disengaged workers have not been paid their terminal benefits. The statement added,“The indescribable hardship this foists on the workers in this era of multiple denials, is better left to the imagination. “It is an obvious fact that it is not only on these workers that the burden of survival rests but their numerous dependants as well as those whose economic activities and daily subsistence rest on the working class. “We are appalled by this level of recklessness, insensitivity and lawlessness. We had thought that some lessons have been learnt from the purges of the Murtala Muhammed regime of the ‘70s which laid the foundation of the destruction of the civil service in the country from which it is yet to recover. “Progressive or insightful governments around the world in this Covid era are focused on saving or creating jobs and not destroying existing ones.” The lawyers urged the governor to recall the unfairly sacked workers and put on hold further mass sack. They also declared their  support for the proposed protest/strike action by the Nigeria Labour Congress in the atate starting on Monday. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com