The Presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party in the 2019 general elections, Atiku Abubakar and his running mate at the poll, Peter Obi, on Wednesday, congratulated the Muslim faithful on the successful completion of the holy month of Ramadan. Atiku and Obi in separate statements issued by their respective media offices, urged Nigerians not to give up in prayers, notwithstanding the hardship they are facing. Atiku said, “It is by the injunction of the Almighty Allah that we undertook fasting in the Holy Month of Ramadan. “Having fulfilled the command, I congratulate fellow Muslim brothers and sisters in Nigeria and across the globe for a successful completion of the Ramadan fasting and to wish us all a happy Eid-al-fitr celebration. “This year’s Eid-al-fitr is coming at a time when Nigeria is going through a challenging moment concerning the security of lives and property and when a large number of our people are hard hit by the ravaging scourge of poverty. “As Muslims, we need to remind ourselves of our obligation to ensure peace and unity within our family and in our neighbourhood at all times. “Today, across Nigeria, there is a scary and growing tendency to mistrust along ethnic and religious lines. “As Muslims, we know from both the Holy Quran and the Sunnah of Noble Prophet Muhammed (SAW) that no tribe or race is superior to another, except the one that seeks piety to the Almighty Allah. “We do not attain piety through hate or blood-letting. We attain piety through forbearance and by sharing love.  That is the message that we must give some reflection as we celebrate Eid today.” Also, Obi charged Nigerians not to allow the prevailing hardship and mounting insecurity in the country to adversely affect their spirit of love, brotherliness and peaceful co-existence. Rather, he said, the people should use this year’s Eid-El Fitri festivities to engender the spirit of oneness and also re-dedicate themselves to the virtues of love, patriotism and unity for the desired national development.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com