The country is wracked today by the twin problems of fighting an insurgency and enacting strong measures against a pandemic that has adversely affected many lives and permanently altered some others forever. Both demands, coupled with the near-collapse of international trade, have dealt huge blows to the finances of the government to the point that the minister of finance has cried out about the continuing ability of the Federal Government to even pay salaries on a regular basis. The other business of financing other aspects of the national economy is, of course, now something of a dilemma. On the face of it, these are issues that may not appear to be linked but they are inextricably so. If capital outlays are unable to finance necessary physical structures on the ground, it should be possible to pay remunerations to all cadres of healthcare staff as an irreducible minimum. However, the malaise which has begun in a number of states is sure to get worse unless something dramatic happens to improve the government’s finances. Sadly, we are unable to obtain simple words of encouragement, of reassurance, from the highest levels of government. And so, when the minister for labour said there was a proposal to increase the retirement age for all categories of healthcare workers to 65 years for some and 70 for others, it ought to have been a cause for cheers in a sector that has been battered for the greater part of a generation and also for the populace who daily face the twin problems of inadequate personnel in all our hospitals and the absence of critical staff. A measure that should have been able to shore up some pitfalls in staffing risks exacerbating the problem in a perverse way. Some workers retire early, some statutorily and others on health grounds. The majority, however, are lost to the system because they take their considerable skills elsewhere in the world where those skills are better paid for and where the basic necessities of modern existence do not require a struggle akin to warfare to obtain. In one of our teaching hospitals just a year ago, a pair of ENT surgeons qualified at once to be employed as consultants. The department had long awaited their arrival on board so as to take up more of the heavy caseload of work some of which patients had waited for almost two years to get the proper care they needed. One went off to Canada and the other to the United Kingdom. Another teaching hospital advertised for the position of consultant paediatrician several months ago but there was not one person interested in taking up the advertised employment because none was available; even the fellows who had newly passed their examinations within the very same department now advertising for fresh hands were nowhere to be found. They had left the country with one of them now as far away as Australia. These people do not hate their country but the country has turned its back firmly against them. Any society which is unable to pay its professionals and its teachers is doomed. There are no two ways about that fact and there is no middle-of-the-road position about it. And it is not entirely a dire situation; no, not yet but the descent into severe inadequacy across the board is definitely an uninterrupted one. Government policies are confusing and sometimes contradictory while the latest attempt to shore up the manpower numbers has yet to become law. It could take up to 18 months or more to get to that point. There is no sense of urgency in official quarters and no zeal to develop further skills among the middle-level ranks because they look up to their teachers and trainers and do not like what they see. They are stunned by visions of senior members of the various professional groups in the entire sector who are unable to afford decent schools for their children, solid houses, or good cars because their legitimate earnings do not amount to much. All you need to do sometimes is to compare a chief medical director with the regional head of a bank or an insurance company. It is a sad reflection of our scale of values. Add these challenges to the hostility exhibited by members of the public to the sector as a whole and what emerges is an extremely toxic environment in which working cannot be enjoyed. There are cases in which several states owe their healthcare workers several months’ wages. As of about March 20, one such state had not paid its own staff since November, 2020; four entire months yet, they were obligated to remain loyal and honest and committed. And they were paid only 70 per cent at that! The legislators from that state, including the house committee overseeing that ministry, did not countenance a cut in their own pay. In fact, just a few months before then, there was a public uproar over what brand of sleek new vehicles they considered fitting for their status. In other genuine democracies, this kind of contradiction, this utter disdain for the public good would be severely punished at the next round of polling. Such a breach of basic government principles ought to be seen for what it is; a breach of common sense from which no singular government is exempt in the entire country. Sadly, even those drafted to work in the various Covid-19 treatment centres are similarly owed their allowances. How can such governments earn their employees’ confidence? The various medical and nursing schools around the country will continue to produce doctors, nurses, pharmacists, and physiotherapists. Many will not get the kind of training they need to make a positive impact on the communities they serve. Some will not be able to secure places for post-graduate training. That ought to be the fishing ground from which the next generation of experts who will carry on the torch of teaching the subsequent converts to specialisation can be found. Sadly, that is already happening with a harsh reality that confounds the mind. Even when some persons are willing to pay their way through such training by being rostered as supernumerary workers, they still cannot find spaces. The problems run deep. The solutions are not being considered across the board. Many of the half-hearted measures being called solutions are stop-gap measures to plug holes temporarily. In the not too distant future, yours truly believes that the entire healthcare system will be tested in an unprecedented way and the consequences of the benign neglect we see today will unleash hell on all of us. Now, because the Nigerian politician can literarily get away with anything, these lapses can be explained away. The twin pandemics to have visited our shores within the last decade should have led us to develop a better healthcare infrastructure. In some ways, we have made negative strides in several key indices which have led Nigeria to be one of the five most dangerous countries in the world to have a baby, a country where most of the children in the world who are not in any school can be found with an estimated 15 million in number, and one nation in which the safety of women and of children under the age of 5 years has become increasingly uncertain. The erosion of the necessary architecture to sustain affordable healthcare places Nigeria at the 187th position among 192 countries and territories covered in a recent survey. Despite having the dubious status of being Africa’s largest economy, it can be appreciated that there are little or no benefits for the average Nigerian citizen as far as affordable healthcare is concerned. And it is not due to a lack of resources. Questions and answers Dear doctor, I always appreciate your good work in Sunday PUNCH. God bless you. Please attached is a copy of the scan I recently did. I need your professional advice on the result. Thanks in anticipation. xxx@xxx.com Thank you very much for your kind words. The report you referred to above is actually of little value. The scan says that at the age of 28 years, you have two stones in the gallbladder, an infection in both your ureters and an enlarged liver due to a non-specific cause. And then he concludes the report by questioning several possible disease conditions. I will advise you to discountenance that report and go to a proper diagnostic centre which a doctor will refer you to. When you do so, it will be easy to judge if this particular one is worthy of any consideration because the person who reported this one is almost certainly not trained to interpret scans. Dear doctor, I have been reading your articles on medical issues. Please, sir, a girlfriend of mine has been complaining of stomach ache for some time, and all medical scans proved nothing, yet the persistence of the stomach ache keeps rising. She has used a lot of drugs but all proved abortive. We want to seek medical advice (natural) on the likely causes and what she can use to reduce the pain she is going through. Thank you, sir, in anticipation. xxx@xxx.com Well, thank you for your diligence in reading the articles. Your question is unclear about what part of the abdomen is responsible for the pain; whether it is the right side or left, we need to know. If it is the middle and around the belly button or the upper part near the breast bone, it is important to say. Equally important is whether it is in the lower part of the stomach since we are talking here about a woman. However, a scan is not the ultimate investigation to perform for someone who has abdominal pain neither is it always a reliable tool to determine what is wrong. The best thing for you to do is to go to a hospital with her, complain to the relevant doctors there and get her to be properly examined. Those doctors will then determine what tests should be done. When that happens, she can then be treated. Nothing else will bring about the results you want to see. Dear doctor, this is the outcome of the results you asked me to do about a week ago sir.  Please explain it to me, sir.  xxxx@xxx.com When I recommended those investigations, they were just suggestions which did not mean you should have the tests done and forward the results obtained to me. However, your fasting blood sugar is normal and the analysis of your urine returns normal results. Besides, no bacteria were found in your urine after a culture of it was done. These are the results demonstrated in your mail. However, there are other possibilities with the kind of story you told us, and for those to be properly evaluated, you will still need to return to the University College Hospital, Ibadan, Oyo State, and have your condition reviewed further. Dear doctor, good day doctor. I came across your article in Sunday PUNCH. I have gone to various hospitals and taken oral and external drugs, yet there has been no cure. I have terrible itching that embarrasses me. I was diagnosed with urinary tract infection but all the drugs taken have not helped eradicate this. My private area itches badly when I sweat and I sweat a lot down there. I am tired of the antibiotics, fungal creams, and herbals that have been prescribed. What do you advise so that I can have a lasting solution to this embarrassment?  0905xxxxxxx Well, a common problem with an issue like yours would be that very often, the medications are not used in the correct dosage and for the ideal length of time for the infection to clear. In your case, the infection is likely to be mixed with various bacteria and fungi playing different roles and involving different parts. Sadly, I am not able to comment about the efficacy of any herbal medication you might have used other than to say that it has no role to play in a complex situation like what you are describing. Finally, it is important to make sure that you do not have a health condition that can prevent the resolution of a problem like yours and disease like diabetes comes to mind here. You do need to be screened for this as part of the broad investigation necessary to determine what your problem is. You should go to a proper hospital and have a good examination done. Then a cure can be achieved. Dear doctor, I really appreciate your advice. Thank you so much. It really helped me and it reduced my fear. Please doctor, can you tell me some drugs I can use to stop my toilet infection? 0904xxxxxxx Thank you for this question. Unfortunately, I cannot tell you what drugs you can use to stop this problem because this diagnosis is not known to my profession. And here, you are the one who has made it so in a way, I really do not know what you mean. To determine what the infection is, you will be asked to do swab and urine cultures so that whatever organism is found can be tested against a bunch of antibiotics. In that way, the most appropriate medication to use for your situation will be known. It is not an issue for guesswork. Dear Doctor, thank you for the good work you are doing. God will bless you for us. Please what can I do about my feet which are now spreading out wide around where the toes are with the big toe on each foot bending inwards? To wear shoes is almost impossible and when I wear sandals, the big toes stick out very much at the side. I am now 48 years old. 0818xxxxxxx I believe you have a condition called Hallux valgus.  You should see an orthopaedic surgeon for examination and treatment otherwise you could find yourself unable to wear even slippers in a few years’ time. Thank you for your prayers. Dear doctor, I will appreciate being educated a bit about the effect of drinking cold water on having chest infections. 0802xxxxxxx It is a simple issue really. The water you drink goes into your stomach and intestines from where it is absorbed mainly into the blood from where it is filtered by the kidneys to produce urine. When you drink cold water, it is rapidly warmed inside the stomach to approach your internal temperature. At no time does that water make any contact with your lungs which is the organ that brings in the bacteria which will cause a chest infection, so that between the two systems, there is no contact whatsoever. I hope that is absolutely very clear. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com