Recently, the Minister of Internal Affairs, Rauf Aregbesola, revealed that issuance of electronic passport for Nigerians would resume at the Nigerian Immigration Service offices nationwide by the end of the month and that as from June 1, obtaining the e-passport would only take six weeks. To address the problem of scarcity of passports, Aregbesola  the decentralisation of  passports in the 774 local government areas has commenced. The process started with inauguration of the Passports Express Centre at Maitama District, Abuja. Passports, according to the minister, will now be available within 24 hours nationwide under the new Maitama Passport Express Centre. Aregbesola said: “MPEC is in response to the yearnings of the general public for the Ministry of Interior and the NIS to devise additional ways that the passport issuance process can be less stressful and more efficient. “It is the future. The goal is to have a facility like this in every local government in the country. “Every Nigerian has the right to a passport and it is our responsibility to put it in the hands of anyone desirous of it within the shortest possible time, without stress. The passport should be available in maximum of 72 hours of a successful application. Where there are issues, the applicant must be notified within 48 hours.” According to him, commencement of the operations of the facility would not only offer Nigerians services of convenience and pleasure but also take away stress noticeable in the conventional passport offices. Before now, the passport used by Nigerians, the Machine Readable Passport was produced locally by the Nigerian Security Printing and Minting Plc. At that time, there were no embedded chips in the booklets. However, in 2003 during the President Olusegun Obasanjo administration, an attempt was made to domesticate the printing of the document which is now going to be an electronic passport, following the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding with IRIS Smart Technologies Limited and Nigerian Security Printing and Minting Company, to address the challenge of perennial scarcity of the document. A former Minister of Interior, Abdulrahman Dambazau, who spoke at the time of signing the agreement said the new development would ensure the “availability of passport booklets and there will be no more complaints of shortage or delivery beyond 48 hours after application.” Unfortunately, this effort has not materialised yet. However, from my investigation, the major cause of the scarcity of the passport booklets today is the foreign exchange problem. According to the NIS Comptroller General, Muhammed Babandede, the contract for the production of the e-passport awarded to Iris Smart Technology had three components of the agreement, which are the supply of booklets, maintenance and the technology. “In terms of booklet, it is the number of booklets they supply that we pay for. They took their money and invest in it and they supply booklets, we pay. That is the nature of the contract,” he said. Babandede noted that the NIS now has over 57 passport offices in the world while some countries have only about three. According to him, these locations pay for their passports in dollar that goes directly into the Federal Consolidated Revenue Fund, which the NIS has no access to. What this means is that the Immigration Service relies solely on the money generated from passports in Nigeria for all its operations across the world and this explains why the NIS is handicapped to procure enough booklets that could serve the needs of Nigerians both at home and abroad. Like many Nigerians, I  am worried over the national economy, with the price of oil, Nigeria’s main export, depressed and foreign exchange reserves dwindling, its central bank is hanging on to its dollars to support the local naira – leaving a dwindling supply of hard currency to buy the imports that are the bedrock of Africa’s largest economy. With the oil market depressed by a producer price war and the pandemic-induced global recession, the central bank reserves have fallen 20% in the past year to $36.1 billion, around five months of import cover. The bank initially sought to stem the decline by suspending dollar auctions in March and continues to severely ration their supply. A senior official who spoke on the condition of anonymity refuted the allegation that the booklets were totally not available. He alleged that prospective applicants were the ones who failed to follow due process. They cannot issue passport booklets without potential applicants supplying their NIN. Inwalomhe Donald, Kaduna