Civil Society Organisations have joined other Nigerians to speak against the alleged rape and killing of an Akwa Ibom job seeker, Iniobong Umoren. Umoren, a young graduate, was allegedly raped, killed and buried by 20-year-old Uduak Frank Akpan who invited Umoren over under the pretext of offering her a job. The PUNCH had earlier reported that some Akwa-Ibom youths had vandalised the home of the prime suspect, Akpan, taking his father to the police station. The wife of the Akwa Ibom governor, Martha Emmanuel, on Wednesday, also led a protest against the killing of Umoren. CSOs have since condemned the savage killing of the job seeker while also calling for justice and a safer society for women. The Director of Programmes, Galaxy for Peace and Integrity Initiative, Precious Chukwunonso, believed that collective effort of every system in Nigeria would end violence against women. According to her, “Every hand must be on the deck if we actually want to end violence against women.” She called on families, government at all levels, places of worship, and other organisations to speak up and fight against gender-based violence. Also, the Co-founder of The Youth Evolve, Ruhamah Ifere, condemned the sexual violence meted on Umoren and other victims in the past, stating that the act is also a form of insecurity. “When you hear the word insecurity, most of us just relate it to terrorism, banditry, and killings but then we also have the insecurity that is meted out towards women. “Women are usually seen as weaker human beings. Their rights are not recognised and can now be pushed upon by some people or by some men that see women as inferior,” she said. Continuing, she said, “This Ini Umoren case is a very good example of principles of human rights being tampered with, because Ini Umoren has the right, not just only to her body, but she has the right to go about looking for a job. “She also has the right to move about freely without having fear of feeling attacked just because she is a woman.” The Akwa Ibom State Police Command has arrested the suspect and said he would be charged to court upon completion of investigation.