Smart accessories manufacturers, oraimo has hit a landmark of 100 million in sales globally. The milestone being one of many on the company’s vision board as the brand aspires to become the leading consumer choice when it comes to their mobile accessories and smart device choices. The company which started in 2013, in Hong Kong has now expanded into over 50 countries, with Nigeria being one of its latest hold. Since its entry into the Nigerian market, oraimo has found its way into the heart of millions of smart phone users by establishing itself as the #1 leading mobile accessory brand in Nigeria, thus, shaping end-user preferences. oraimo has also been active in the music industry, a strong passion point for the Nigerian youths. From concert sponsorships to TV sponsorships. oraimo currently sponsors the Official Naija Top Ten on MTV Base. The brand currently has a successful partnership with 2baba. This partnership has also strengthened their hold in the Nigerian market as the fans of the legendary music crooner were quick to give their interest to the brand and later adopt its FreePods 2. oraimo’s partnership with 2baba birth the production of the 2baba FreePods 2 in 2020. The 2baba FreePods 2 is the #1 true wireless stereo earphones in Nigeria, bringing amazing technology to everyone and is specially tuned by 2Baba for the best afrobeat sound. With its activities in the entertainment industry, oraimo is fast on its way to becoming a household brand for teens and young adults. Adding to its quality driven nature, oraimo is also known for its fashionable look, a factor which is highly considered by the Nigerian youth, its major demographic. oraimo has employed an extensive distribution in the Nigerian retail market and established an e-shop https://ng.oraimo.com/  that would ensure seamless purchase of its products by end users. The brand also added an attractive offer of free deliveries for orders over N6,000 and their products come with a 365-day warranty. With the introduction of the oraimo Watch, the brand was able to secure its spot as a premium mobile accessory brand in Nigeria and will not be stopping there. The brand seeks to become a premium household name among the Nigerian youths and so it promises to keep evolving to meet the accessory needs of the Nigerian market. With a few milestones achieved, the smart accessories manufacturers are taking no breaks as they have begun working towards a new sales goal. Achieving a new milestone will mean maintaining consistency in quality, staying up to date with trends, and putting the customer first in its research and development process. As they work towards becoming the number one choice for all mobile accessories in Nigeria, Nigerians can look forward to more commitments from the prestigious, yet affordable quality mobile accessory brand. To find out more about oraimo or its latest products, follow them on Instagram, Twitter, and Facebook