The Owa Ooye of Okemesi Ekiti, Oba Adedeji Gbadebo, said on Wednesday that the worsening insecurity in the country could be redressed by the return to use of the African traditional power. Gbadebo, a former chairman, Ekiti State Council of Traditional Rulers, expressed worries that people of the South-West including monarchs, had abandoned the ways of old and the protective charms and powers used by their forefathers, hence the incursion of criminals into the zone. The first class monarch, who spoke at Okemesi Ekiti during a press conference heralding the weeklong 2021 biennial Okemesi Cultural Festival billed to climax on May 8, said the event would expose the town’s tourism opportunities like the Agbona Hill, the Fabunmi Hall of Fame and others to the outside world. He said, “The Ladunwo, which is our agelong cultural heritage was being celebrated in secrecy before, but because we want to market it to the world, we have relaxed the myth. Nigerians go to Cuba, Brazil and other Carribean countries to watch all these, why not here in Okemesi? “Osun Osogbo, Argungu Fish Festival, Ojude Oba in Ijebu Ode, Calabar carnival and many others are changing the economy of the host communities and that nation. We want Ladunwo to gain recognition at the state and federal levels and even globally,” he said. The monarch said Okemesi community had been working with the police, Amotekun Corps, Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps, Oodua Peoples Congress and local hunters to monitor security situation for the safety of the tourists during the festival. He said, “Attacks on obas are disturbing. How could criminals be kidnapping or shooting traditional rulers? I believe that going traditional to curb these senseless killings is not out of place.” DOWNLOAD: Our new PUNCH Android app for top stories, breaking news, international stories…and more. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com