The Director-General of the National Lottery Regulatory Commission, Mr Lanre Gbajabiamila, on Sunday said with the efforts being put in place by his commission, lottery would soon become a major source of revenue for Nigeria. He said the commission was set to introduce what he called a central monitoring system that would ensure that all earnings due to government from lottery were collected with precision. Gbajabiamila said this in a statement titled ‘Update on NLRC’ made available to journalists in Abuja. He said with the new system, all the loopholes and drains in the lottery business would be blocked so that the entire taxes and revenues payable to government were fully collected and remitted to government coffers. He said, “I am upbeat that in a matter of some few years, lottery shall become a major source of revenue for Nigeria. “For the lottery industry in our dear country, Nigeria, the future is bright.” Gbajabiamila explained that with all the measures being put in place by the commission, lottery would soon be contributing significantly to the nation’s treasury as it is in advanced countries like United States, United Kingdom and Spain. He said both the management and staff members of the commission were being prepped with trainings and enhanced welfare package for effective take off of the system. He assured the workers that in addition to the recently approved Peculiar Allowance for members of staff of the commission, the enhanced salary structure approved for them since 2015 would be implemented after the realisation of the new monitoring system as the commission would then have sufficient funds to meet its obligations. Gbajabiamila also said work had reached an advanced stage on the establishment of an indigenous national game with all the benefits of higher revenues for the government, greater dividends for stakers and profound growth in the industry. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com