A mobile money agent, Elijah Fakoyin, has accused policemen attached to the Maroko and Ikeja divisions in Lagos State of allegedly releasing a yet-to-be-identified suspect allegedly involved in a scam around Ipodo in the Ikeja area of the state. Fakoyin also accused one Inspector Monday attached to the Maroko Division of detaining him unjustly for a crime the suspect allegedly committed, adding that the sum of N80,000 was extorted from him before the police released him from detention. [READ ALSO] Yoruba Nation rally: Trouble averted as Igboho’s supporters tackle DSS PUNCH Metro gathered that sometime in April 2020, Fakoyin was attending to customers in his office in the Ipodo area of Ikeja when one Ahmed, a barman from the KO Gardens, informed him that two yet-to-be-identified men needed to withdraw N40,000 through his point of sale terminal. One of the men was said to have requested Fakoyin’s account number, and after providing it, the 40-year-old received a credit alert of N40,000. Afterwards, he gave them N40,000 and the men left his office. However, the story took another turn when Fakoyin received a call from a woman, identified simply as Mrs Adigun, who informed him that she was instructed to send N40,000 into his account in order to retrieve her daughter’s missing phone. He said, “So, I told her to visit my office the following day so that we could file a report at the police station, but she refused to show up and also stopped picking my calls. Three weeks after, two policemen, who were in mufti, arrested me because of the transaction. “They took me to the Maroko Police Station and when we got there, I was handed over to Inspector Monday, who detained me for three days. On the fourth day, my younger brother, Tareed, visited the station and Inspector Monday demanded the N40,000 paid into my account and another N40,000 for my bail. “I gave my brother my ATM card and he withdrew N80,000 and gave it to Inspector Monday. Afterwards, he released me, but seized my PoS terminal on the condition that I must provide the suspect, whom I paid N40,000 to in my office.” Fakoyin explained that efforts to get the suspect paid off when he visited the KO Gardens again, adding that after apprehending the suspect, Inspector Monday instructed him to hand over the suspect to the Ikeja Police Division. The Ekiti State indigene, however, said the suspect disappeared after he was handed over to the Ikeja Police Division, adding that Inspector Monday detained him again for the suspect’s disappearance from police custody. He stated, “Inspector Monday informed the DPO of Ikeja Division and I took the suspect to him on Saturday. When we got there, the DPO called a policewoman, who took the suspect away. I waited for three hours to hear from Inspector Monday so that the suspect could be taken to the Maroko Division, but he ignored my calls. “I was also told to stay outside the station and after waiting for six hours, I left the station around 7.30pm. Around 8.30pm, Inspector Monday called and told me to look for a vehicle to convey the suspect down to the Maroko Division and I told him that I was not a police officer and could not convey the suspect. “We argued and during our argument, Inspector Monday later told me that the suspect was no longer in the cell. Inspector Monday later told me to visit the station again and when I got there on Wednesday, he detained me for another 24 hours. “He said I should not have left the suspect or the station until I heard from him. Because of this case, I slept in a cell for the first time in my life. The police seized my terminal for two weeks, crippled my business and made me to lose over N400,000. They also extorted N80,000 from me and I treated myself with N30,000 after I was released.” Fakoyin, who urged the state Commissioner of Police, Hakeem Odumosu, to intervene in the matter, said Mrs Adigun had been avoiding a meeting with him. When contacted, the state Police Public Relations Officer, Muyiwa Adejobi, said Fakoyin did not hand over any suspect to the police. He said, “The DPO, Maroko Division, is investigating a case in which someone’s phone was stolen and when they called the phone, the person, who picked the call said they should pay a certain amount of money before returning the phone. “They sent an account number, which turned out to be that of Elijah Fakoyin and they paid into it. Fakoyin was arrested and it was discovered that he didn’t follow the due process by getting the phone number of the people. “He promised to get the people since he knew them. He later said he arrested somebody and the IPO directed him to the Ikeja Division, which called the Maroko Division for confirmation of the case and in the process, Fakoyin left. The DCO was even looking for him, but he was nowhere to be found. “Fakoyin has met with the complainant twice. We don’t know what he is up to, but the fact remains that investigation reveals that he has a case to answer. He didn’t hand over any suspect to the police in Ikeja.” However, when contacted on Sunday, ASP Ben Nwabuaze, who took the suspect’s photograph when the police at the Ikeja Division were not attending to the case properly, said, “I saw him (Fakoyin) some minutes ago and I have discussed with him. He called me and said I should send the suspect’s picture and I told him that I had sent it. I sent it some minutes ago as I was moving on the road.” Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com