The suspected kidnappers from Benue State, who were apprehended in Osun State, have advanced reasons why some victims do not make it alive. They stated that most times, some of the victims die due to their inability to survive the trauma of being in kidnappers’ den. The Benue State Police Command, which disclosed this in a statement on Thursday, said the reasons for the death of kidnap victims were extracted from the suspects during interrogation. Apart from trauma, the suspects were said to have also stated that many victims were killed because of the inability of their families to pay ransoms demanded by their captors. The statement issued by the spokesperson for the command, DSP Catherine Anene, said the corpses recently exhumed from shallow graves in the Katsina Ala area of the state had been taken for autopsy. PUNCH Metro had earlier reported that two of the eight-member kidnap gang arrested in Osun State last Monday led a team of police detectives to a village in the Katsina Ala Local Government Area of Benue State, where six corpses were recovered from shallow graves. The statement by Anene read in part, “Acting on intelligence about a 10-man gang of kidnap suspects, who escaped from Sankara, police detectives trailed and arrested eight of the suspects in Osun State and brought them back (to Benue State) for further investigation. “On May 10, 2021, around 10am, the suspects opted to lead police detectives to the Tavachan forest, Mbamon, Kastina-Ala Local Government Area, where they buried their slain victims. Upon arrival at the scene, a deep well and a shallow grave were found in the forest with the decomposing corpses of their victims.” The statement added, “The suspects confessed that some of the victims died due to their inability to survive the trauma of being held hostage, while others were killed for not paying the required ransoms. “Two of the suspects also confessed to have killed their wives for making attempts to expose their nefarious acts. “Four corpses were exhumed for autopsy, while investigation into the case is on going to enable the arrest of suspects at large and unravel more facts about the case.” The PPRO said efforts of the command to get rid of criminal elements in the Sankera area of the state were yielding fruits, adding that several suspects had been arrested and charged, while normalcy had been restored in various markets in the area. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com