These are politically interesting times in Cross River State. The defection of the state governor, Prof Ben Ayade, from the Peoples Democratic Party to the All Progressives Congress has made it so. The defection has created ripples and started throwing up challenges for the PDP, the erstwhile ruling party in the state, as the governor and his new party appear to have drawn the battle line with the PDP. The governor drew the first blood when the APC took over the PDP secretariat on Saturday, May 22, 2021. Ayade joined politicians, who defected from opposition parties to the APC,  which controls the Federal Government. Prominent among such politicians is the Ebonyi State Governor, Dave Umahi, who is said to be nursing a presidential ambition. Others are a former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Dimeji Bankole and an ex-Governor of Ogun State, Gbenga Daniel. For most of the defectors, the common reason for their action was that they wanted to take their people to the centre and assist the President, Major General Muhammadu Buhari (retd.), in the task of building the nation. From all indications, in the months ahead, the camp of the APC will swell with for defectors joining it. In Cross Rivers State, there were accusations and counter-accusations regarding the development as both parties laid claim to the tenancy of the structure. While the PDP Caretaker Committee headed by a former deputy governor, Effiok Cobham, says the party’s tenancy still subsists and condemns the takeover, the APC says the PDP should look elsewhere for accommodation, because those who paid the last rent for the building are now in the APC. The clash over the secretariat between the two parties appears to be a sign of things to come ahead of the 2023 general elections. At the recent PDP stakeholders’ meeting in Calabar, Cobham vowed that the party would reclaim its secretariat. At the meeting, stakeholders heaved a sigh of relief that the governor left the party, with some saying it was divine intervention. From their remarks, it was clear they had had enough of Ayade. The meeting seemingly underlined the fact that the PDP was still very much on the ground in spite of the defection, with thousands of the party’s supporters in attendance. Among the party’s leaders at the meeting were former governor Liyel Imoke; and two senators, Gershom Bassey, representing the Southern Senatorial District, and Sandy Onoh, representing the Central Senatorial District. Others were five members of the House of Representatives. They are: Eta Mbora (Odukpani/Calabar Municipality), Essien Ayi (Akpabuyo/Bakassi/Calabar South), Daniel Asuquo (Biase/Akamkpa), Chris Agibe (Ikom/Boki) and Jarigbe Agom (Ogoja/Yala), who had been fighting to take the Cross River North senatorial seat after the December 5, 2020 by-election. Several party stalwarts were also there at that event, where Imoke denied collecting N2bn to install the Ayade government in 2015, describing the allegation as an insult. The National Assembly members from the state, who attended the meeting, were part of those who made Ayade defected to the APC by taking over the PDP structure in the state. Prominent among them is Senator Gershom Bassey, who is rumoured as one of those eyeing the PDP governorship ticket in 2023. Some members of the state House of Assembly were also at the meeting, indicating that they had not defected. They are Itam Abang (Boki 1), Efa Esua (Calabar Municipality) and Nelson Ofem (Yakurr 1). Apart from these lawmakers, it is not clear if some of the other members of the Assembly will still remain in the PDP. A member of the Assembly, who has defected from the PDP to the APC is the Deputy Speaker, Joseph Bassey, representing Calabar South II. It could not be ascertained if the Speaker, Eteng Williams, is still in the PDP or has defected like his deputy. Others, who have yet to defect, may be sitting on the fence because of the uncertainty surrounding their political future in the wake of the governor’s defection. Before now, the state Assembly was described as a rubber stamp of the governor, because it rarely had cause not to approve the governor’s policies. The members were virtually on the same page with the governor on every issue. With all the PDP structures not yet collapsed into the APC as envisaged, there may be more surprises as the days go by. Feelers indicate that some members of the state Executive Council fiercely loyal to some PDP members in the National Assembly may not defect. For instance, the Commissioner for Women Affairs, Rita Ayim, did not defect. She was at the PDP stakeholders’ meeting in Calabar and has just been picked as the Publicity Secretary of the Caretaker Committee of the party. Also, the Commissioner for Climate Change and Forestry, Donatus Etim, has resigned from the cabinet. The identities of all those who have followed the governor to jump ship are not fully known yet. However, one of the governor’s appointees, who pleaded to remain anonymous, said, “Some commissioners and local government chairmen have joined the APC. The governor installed the council chairmen. They are his loyalists.” Another appointee, said, “The governor has started meeting with us. It is after we hear what he has to tell us that we will know whether to join the APC or not. The governor is meeting with House of Assembly members, LG chairmen, councillors, senior special assistants, DGs/chairmen of boards/members as well as party executives (state/LGA) to extract loyalty from them. And those, who refuse to join him, will have to resign.” Investigation revealed that hard-pressed political appointees, who did not find it comfortable joining the APC, might eventually join the party in order not to lose their monthly stipend called: ‘Food on the table’ by the governor. The about 6,000 appointees, according to an official, are currently revalidating their appointments after which they may proceed to their wards and register as APC members. More resignations may occur in the days ahead by the appointees, who are not ready to join the APC. The appointees vowed at a recent rally in Calabar that they would swim or sink with the governor weeks before he defected. That vow is being put to the test now. Imoke had said at a briefing held with lawmakers and the PDP stakeholders in Abuja after governor’s defection, that Ayade’s dumping of the PDP was expected. “While being regrettable, it does not come to us as a surprise,” Imoke said. One man, who may be in a dilemma in the wake of the governor’s defection, is Senator Stephen Odey. A close ally of the governor, Odey, who contested the Northern Senatorial District by-election under the PDP platform, is enmeshed in an election petition, which is still pending between him, a House of Representatives member, who is also called senator-elect by his supporters, Jarigbe Agom, and other parties. The parties are at the election petition tribunal over the December 5, 2020 Cross River North Senatorial by-election, for which the Supreme Court declared Jarigbe as the winner. There are feelers that some bigwigs, who left the PDP for other parties, may return to the PDP following the defection of the governor to the APC. Ayade’s defection may also upset the 2023 political permutations in the state. This is because the PDP, which has been in power in the state since 1999, ceased to be the ruling party on May 20, 2021, and the APC is going into the 2023 polls with an incumbent governor, who may want to install his successor at the expense of the PDP and the other political parties. Even within the APC, the choice of Ayade’s successor may cause disaffection if it runs counter to the choice of other party stalwarts. Things are not going to be the same again within the PDP as Ayade’s defection has thrown the political field wide open ahead of the 2023 elections in the state as there will be realignment of forces going into election year. With the incumbent governor and other chieftains calling the shots in the APC, the PDP will be given a run for its money when the 2023 politicking begins. The PDP already has structures across the 18 local government areas of the state, having been deeply rooted in power in the state for 22 years. However, with the current development, there is no 100 per cent guarantee that the party will maintain its over two decades winning streak. Going by the rotational policy of the PDP, a new governor is expected to emerge from the Southern Senatorial District of the state in 2023. With the defection of Ayade to the APC, a different scenario may play out if the party zones its governorship to the central or northern districts. The three zones have taken their turns under successive PDP governments and by 2023, a new cycle is expected to begin with the south producing the next governor. A lot may still unfold in the coming weeks as diehard PDP members are trying to come to terms with the reality that the state has been handed over to the APC on a platter of gold. Before Ayade defected, the APC was not an active opposition party in the state, thus allowing the PDP to have a field day over the years. Now, that will change as the PDP has begun to assert itself as an opposition party barely a few days after the governor’s defection. It’s the first time the PDP is playing that role in the state since 1999. With the huge crowd of supporters, who turned out for the stakeholders’ meeting in Calabar recently, the PDP stakeholders, who expressed pleasant surprise at the turnout, said they were convinced that the party was poised to slug it out with the APC in 2023 with everything at its disposal. Barring any form of internal wrangling and emergence of factions within the APC and the PDP, which is common where people from various backgrounds come together, the two leading parties in the state may be evenly matched for the forthcoming elections. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com