THE management of the National Assembly has warned lawmakers, workers, legislative aides and other stakeholders in the parliament of the security threat to the building, The PUNCH can report. This was just as the bureaucracy said it was introducing discreet measures to verify the identity of everybody entering the premises. READ ALSO: I was written off but never gave up – Iheanacho The National Assembly complex is one of the public places, facilities and institutions being targeted by the terrorist group, Boko Haram. An ‘Internal Circular’ sighted on Tuesday was addressed to all senators, honourable members; Deputy Clerk to the National Assembly, Clerk, Senate Clerk, House of Representatives; all secretaries; Deputy Clerk, Senate Deputy Clerk, House of Representatives; all directors (including clerks to committees); and all members of staff. The latest notice is coming from the Clerk to the National Assembly, Amos Ojo; through the Secretary, Human Resources and Staff Development, Abiodun Oladoyin, and dated May 7, 2021. It is titled, ‘Strict Compliance with Security Protocol in the National Assembly.’ The circular read, “I am directed to inform all legislators and staff that in view of the prevailing security situation in the country and the National Assembly in particular, it has become imperative to beef up security measures to prevent the infiltration of undesirable elements into the National Assembly complex. “Consequently, security personnel have been mandated to search all vehicles and persons entering into the National Assembly. “I am, therefore, directed to request that legislators and staff cooperate with the security agents and personnel in the National Assembly to enable them to perform their duty effectively to ensure the safety of lives and property within the National Assembly. “Furthermore, legislators and staff are reminded to hang their ID cards at all times while in the complex to enhance the identification of all persons entering the complex.” The PUNCH had exclusively reported on Thursday that lawmakers had been notified of a possible attack on the National Assembly complex. A notice, a copy of which our correspondent obtained, was copied to the Speaker, Femi Gbajabiamila, principal officers and all members of the House. The ‘Security Alert’, dated May 4, 2021, was issued by Chairman of the House Committee on Internal Security, National Assembly, Mr Usman Danjuma Shiddi. Speaking with our correspondent, Director of Public Affairs, National Assembly, Mr Rawlings Agada, said the management was making efforts to secure the facilities. Agada said, “A lot has been done by the management. If you look at the security arrangement, you will see that there are two points of check apart from the main, first entrance, which is the ‘MOPOL Gate.’ “There is a second point and a third point. Now, you have three points of check for security. The CNA is taking the matter very seriously, together with the leadership (of the political arm). So, it is not something that is being done in isolation. “All of us need to cooperate while the security men do their work. You might see them in uniform, you might not; they might be strange, they might be marked people. But a lot is on the ground.” When asked what the management was doing about the issue of fake and cloned identity cards, Agada said, “We are already working on that.” Security has been tightened in and around the complex since April 29, 2021. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com