AIICO Insurance Plc said its gross written premium grew by 12.2 per cent year-on-year to N19.7bn in the first quarter of 2021 from N17.6bn in the corresponding period of 2020. The underwriter said this in a statement titled ‘AIICO reports gross written premiums of N19.7bn, up 12.2 per cent y-o-y’. It said this was due to a y-o-y increase of 34.0 per cent in the general insurance business (35.7 per cent of gross written premiums) to N7.0bn, from N4.6bn in Q1, 2020. The statement said it recorded underwriting profit of N27.7bn in Q1 2021 from -N131m in Q1, 2020. It said, “Changes in sovereign bond yields impacted the value of our liabilities and assets. These movements are reflected in the change in life and annuity funds as well as fair value/realised gains or losses on the income statement. “In the life business, we are typically concerned about whether there is a surplus or deficit of assets over liabilities because of these movements. “However, because of limitations in financial reporting, changes in liabilities affect underwriting profits while changes in assets are reported below underwriting profits.” The underwriter said the effect was the significant variation in underwriting profits especially in volatile investment yield environments, such it was in Nigeria. During Q1 2021, it stated that annualised yields rose by 430 basis points to 11.7 per cent at the long end of the yield curve, leading to a reduction in the fair values of assets and liabilities. It added that the reduction in liabilities led to positive underwriting profit while the reduction in assets was reflected in the fair value losses for the period. Total investment income declined to a loss of N24.1bn in Q1 2021 from N4.7bn in the corresponding period of 2020, as Federal Government of Nigeria bond yields rose, affecting the fair value of our financial assets. “Federal Government of Nigeria bonds make up most of our investment portfolio,” it stated. Commenting on the results, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Mr Babatunde Fajemirokun, said, “The world is in a difficult moment and Nigeria has not been spared. “Even as the world starts to move on from the pandemic, the economic after-effects will reverberate for a while yet.” However, he added, there were some reasons for optimism as economic activities improved. Copyright PUNCH. All rights reserved. This material, and other digital content on this website, may not be reproduced, published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in whole or in part without prior express written permission from PUNCH. Contact: theeditor@punchng.com